FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20100120080102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 20, 2010, Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009, and posted on its website its 4Q09 Quarterly Supplement (the "Quarterly Supplement"), which contains certain additional historical and forward-looking information relating to the Company. The press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02. The information included in Exhibit 99.1 is considered to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The Quarterly Supplement is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02. Exhibit 99.2 shall not be considered "filed" for purposes of Section 18 under the Exchange Act and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933. The Company will report complete financial statements and additional analyses for the year ended December 31, 2009, as part of its Annual Report on Form 10-K covering that period.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
     
Full Year 2009:
Fourth Quarter 2009:
   See footnote 4 on page 18 for information on PTPP
1
 
 
Selected Financial Information
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) reported record net income of $12.3 billion, or $1.75 per common share, for 2009. Fourth quarter 2009 diluted earnings per share were $0.08, compared with $0.56 for third quarter 2009 and a loss of $0.84 per share in fourth quarter 2008. Fourth quarter and full year 2009 diluted earnings per share were reduced by $0.47 and $0.76, respectively, for combined cash dividends and the deemed dividend upon redemption and full repayment of TARP preferred stock. Results prior to January 1, 2009, do not include Wachovia.
"For the fourth quarter of 2009 and for the full year, we delivered significant value for our customers, communities, shareholders and country," said Chairman and CEO John Stumpf. "We thank our team of 281,000 for their dedication and steadfast focus on customers in 2009 as we continued the important integration of Wachovia into Wells Fargo. This merger, which essentially doubled the size of our company, has already generated tremendous synergies as we expand the time-tested Wells Fargo model to more customers and team members over a broader geography, including additional businesses that help customers succeed financially. In particular, we are very pleased with the positive results we've seen in attracting deposits from new and existing customers, and we are excited about the opportunity to deepen current relationships, cross-sell to new customers and achieve even higher customer satisfaction, while rewarding them for more of their business. Our mission and fundamental business model remains the same and we believe our strategic and financial position is even stronger today than it was a year ago when we completed our merger with Wachovia.
 
"Wells Fargo continued to do its part in making credit available to help our nation's economic recovery. Nearly half a million Wells Fargo loan customers were provided with mortgage payment relief through active trial and completed loan modifications in 2009. We provided $711 billion in loans and lines of credit to help get the economy going again.
"As this past year's financial performance has shown, the earnings capability of Wells Fargo's business model has significant power to generate capital internally. Because of the value we created in 2009 for our customers and communities, we were able to achieve record revenue and earnings for the year. As we enter 2010, we believe our franchise has never been better positioned to meet the challenges and opportunities ahead of it. The Wells Fargo model has been built to outperform our peers over time and through cycles. Clearly we have done just that again in 2009 and believe that this very same model and execution discipline will continue to outperform the industry in the years and cycles ahead."
Financial Performance
"Fourth quarter financial results reflected a continuation of the solid revenue, earnings and capital generation we have produced all year," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. "Fourth quarter earnings of $2.8 billion contributed to a record $12.3 billion in net income for the full year. Revenue continued to build during the quarter across the majority of our businesses, reaching a new quarterly record of $22.7 billion, leading to pre-tax pre-provision profit of nearly $10.0 billion despite $861 million of merger-related and incremental expenses in the quarter. Risk in our asset portfolios has been reduced throughout the year, including fourth quarter, by reducing higher-risk loan portfolios, shedding legacy trading positions, and reducing longer duration investment securities at lower interest rates. We continued to strengthen our balance sheet by building credit reserves to $25 billion at quarter end, up $500 million in the quarter, up $3.5 billion during 2009 and more than six times the reserve (pre-merger) we had at the start of the credit crisis in mid-2007.
The Wachovia integration is proceeding as expected. Credit losses are tracking better than originally estimated at the time of the merger. Expense synergies are on track for $5 billion in annual run rate savings upon completion of the integration in 2011 and cumulative integration costs are now expected to be $3 billion less than the originally assumed $8 billion. Revenue synergies have already begun to be realized with great potential for many more. We built capital significantly throughout the year. Stockholders' equity and Tier 1 common at December 31, 2009, were above the strong levels we had prior to the Wachovia acquisition, even after redeeming TARP and purchasing Prudential's minority interest."
Revenue
Revenue of $22.7 billion increased 4 percent (annualized) from third quarter 2009, largely the result of continued growth in fee income in our trust and investment management, credit/debit card and mortgage banking businesses. We also experienced broad-based growth across multiple businesses, including double-digit (annualized) linked-quarter revenue growth in asset management, auto lending through Wachovia Dealer Services, insurance, merchant card, mortgage banking, and wealth management. Legacy
 
Wells Fargo had record retail bank household cross-sell of Wells Fargo products of 5.95 in the fourth quarter, and core product solutions (sales) of 6.08 million, up 16 percent from prior year. While mortgage originations and servicing revenue remained high, total mortgage banking noninterest income contributed just 15 percent of the Company's consolidated revenue for the quarter.
Net Interest Income
Net interest income was $11.5 billion, compared with $11.7 billion in third quarter 2009. While earning assets were up slightly, the decline in core loans, the reduction in non-strategic assets and the third quarter sale of longer-duration mortgage-backed securities reduced net interest income growth and net interest margin in the fourth quarter, offset by significant growth in noninterest-bearing checking and savings deposits and wider new lending spreads, which are expected to benefit net interest income over the long term.
Noninterest Income
Noninterest income was $11.2 billion, up 15 percent (annualized) from $10.8 billion in third quarter 2009, and included:
The Company had net unrealized securities gains of $5.6 billion at December 31, 2009, consisting of $3.3 billion in unrealized gains in the agency mortgage-backed securities portfolio and $2.3 billion on
 
spread-related fixed-income securities and equity investments. During the quarter, mortgage-backed securities yields increased while capital market credit spreads generally narrowed.
Noninterest Expense
"While our core cost discipline remained very much in place in the quarter, noninterest expense increased to $12.8 billion from $11.7 billion in third quarter 2009, driven in large part by $450 million of Wachovia merger integration and severance expense (up $251 million from third quarter), $261 million for the previously announced ARS settlement and $150 million for employee benefit-related expense for 401(k) profit sharing contribution to all eligible team members," said Atkins. "We also continued to invest for both the short- and long-term benefit of our customers. We added sales and service team members in regional banking as we align Wachovia's banking stores with the Wells Fargo model. As we've rolled out our regional commercial banking office model into the Eastern states, we've increased sales and service headcount by 8 percent from the third quarter. We also added resources to handle the higher volumes of mortgage loan modifications, with home retention staff up 17 percent in the quarter to more than 15,000 team members dedicated to helping customers stay in their homes. The Company's efficiency ratio was 56.5 percent, up from the third quarter's record level but roughly flat with the first and second quarter.
Income Taxes
The Company's effective income tax rate was 25.2 percent in the fourth quarter, down from 29.5 percent in the third quarter (adjusted for noncontrolling interest). The reduction in tax expense primarily related to the resolution of certain federal and state income tax matters in the quarter and to a greater proportion of tax-exempt income.
Loans
Average total loans were $792.4 billion in the fourth quarter compared with $810.2 billion in the third quarter. In part, the decline was driven by the Company's objective to reduce identified higher-risk, non-strategic and liquidating consumer loan portfolios, down $4.7 billion in the fourth quarter. "While we believe we've been an industry-leader in supplying credit to consumers and businesses  $711 billion in commitments and originations in 2009  loan demand remained relatively soft in the fourth quarter, although the pace of decline in core loans moderated slightly in the quarter," said Atkins. "Wells Fargo continued to gain market share in many lending segments including residential mortgage, auto, education finance, SBA and middle market commercial. With commercial line utilization at cyclical lows and total wholesale banking commitments of $258 billion, we are encouraged by the potential for increased loan volume should a growing economy lead to increased commercial loan demand."
Deposits
"Deposit growth remained very strong as we continued to build consumer and business checking account relationships," said Atkins. Average checking and savings deposits increased 20 percent (annualized) to $661.4 billion from $629.6 billion in third quarter 2009. Average mortgage escrow deposits were
 
$27.5 billion compared with $28.7 billion in third quarter 2009. Average consumer checking accounts grew a net 5.8 percent from 2008 for Wells Fargo and Wachovia combined, and average business checking accounts grew a net 3.9 percent for the same period. Average total core deposits were $770.8 billion, up 6 percent (annualized) from $759.3 billion in third quarter 2009. During the quarter, $14 billion of Wachovia's higher-rate certificates of deposit matured, with $6 billion of those balances retained. For the full year 2009, $109 billion of Wachovia's high-rate certificates of deposit matured, with $62 billion retained, largely in low-cost CDs, checking and savings accounts. Only $8 billion of Wachovia high-rate CDs are expected to mature in 2010.
Capital
"We have built capital significantly in the last 15 months through industry-leading internal capital generation and three successful common stock offerings totaling over $33 billion, including the $12.2 billion offering in the fourth quarter that allowed us to repay TARP in full," said Atkins. "Despite doubling the size of the Company and despite cyclically elevated credit costs this past year, our capital ratios ended 2009 higher than they were upon completion of the Wachovia acquisition, even after redeeming TARP in full and purchasing Prudential's noncontrolling interest in the retail securities brokerage joint venture."
On January 1, 2010, the Company adopted new accounting guidance contained in FASB ASC 810, , and FASB ASC 860, (FAS 166/167), which resulted in the consolidation of certain off-balance sheet assets not currently included in its financial statements. The adoption of the new guidance added approximately $10 billion in risk-weighted assets and had a small positive impact on common equity upon adoption. The total impact was to increase Tier 1 common equity as a percentage of risk-weighted assets by 1 basis point, to reduce the Tier 1 capital ratio by 1 basis point and to reduce the total capital ratio by 4 basis points.
Consolidations
Transfers and Servicing
Credit Quality
"Fourth quarter credit results were in line with our expectations," said Chief Credit and Risk Officer Mike Loughlin. "While losses remained elevated during the quarter as expected, a more favorable economic outlook and improved credit statistics in several portfolios further increase our confidence that our credit cycle is turning, provided economic conditions do not deteriorate. Credit actions taken early in 2008 have so far produced high quality subsequent vintages in the consumer portfolios, and 30-day delinquency levels in a number of retail and commercial segments improved or stabilized in the fourth quarter.
 
Stabilization, or in some cases improvements, in residential real estate values in multiple markets have resulted in lower expected loss severity in our consumer real estate secured portfolios, including better than expected performance in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio. As expected, commercial real estate losses increased during the quarter, but remained at manageable levels. Last quarter, we indicated that we expected consumer losses to peak in the first half of 2010 and commercial losses to peak in the second half absent further economic deterioration. Based on the portfolio performance data we saw in the fourth quarter, and assuming the same economic outlook, we are tracking somewhat better than these expectations. Nonperforming asset growth decelerated in the fourth quarter, and once again we increased reserve levels commensurate with the estimated losses inherent in the portfolio. For the first time in four quarters, the total provision in the fourth quarter declined on a linked-quarter basis. We are working actively to find solutions for consumer and commercial customers who are not able to repay loans according to original terms. We are also encouraging Wells Fargo bankers to stay close to their customers and prospects to understand their future borrowing needs, so that when their credit needs arise, we will be prepared to lend."
Credit Losses
Fourth quarter net charge-offs were $5.4 billion, or 2.71 percent of average loans (annualized), compared with third quarter net charge-offs of $5.1 billion, or 2.50 percent of average loans. Total credit losses included $1.7 billion of commercial and commercial real estate loans (2.15 percent of average loans) and $3.7 billion of consumer loans (3.24 percent of average loans), as shown in the following table. Almost all of the increase in charge-offs was in commercial and consumer real estate, with the other portfolios showing flat to declining losses.
 
"While we expect commercial and commercial real estate losses will remain elevated for the near term, we continue to believe our portfolio will perform relatively well," said Loughlin. "Our commercial real estate portfolio is well diversified with respect to product type and geography. The Wells Fargo portion of the portfolio reflected strong, consistent underwriting and a relationship approach, while the loss content in the Wachovia portion was significantly reduced when we took $7 billion in purchase accounting adjustments at the time of the merger on $18 billion of the highest risk commercial real estate loans. As a result of improved residential real estate activity, stable employment and high quality recent vintages, consumer losses were essentially flat in the fourth quarter.
"Overall the PCI portfolio has performed as expected, and we believe the remaining nonaccretable balance is adequate to absorb estimated future life-of-loan losses on the portfolio. In fact, we expect the Pick-a-Pay portfolio, where we have recognized $10.2 billion of the original $26.5 billion of PCI impairment taken on the Pick-a-Pay portfolio, to perform better than our original estimates. As required, any further deterioration we experience on the PCI loans will be reflected in credit costs while improvements in that portfolio will be reflected in revenue as increased yield or gains on asset sales. To date, these have largely offset one another."
Nonperforming assets
Total nonperforming assets (NPAs) were $27.6 billion (3.53 percent of total loans) at December 31, 2009, and included $24.4 billion of nonaccrual loans and $3.2 billion of foreclosed assets (repossessed real estate and vehicles).
 
Nonaccrual Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets
"While commercial and commercial real estate nonaccrual loans were up in the quarter, we continued to see the rate of growth slowing considerably quarter to quarter," said Loughlin. "The $1.4 billion increase in commercial real estate NPAs included impaired loans in the PCI portfolio placed in foreclosure and therefore moved to NPAs (written down at the time of the Wachovia merger).
"We believe the loss exposure expected in the NPAs is significantly mitigated by three factors. First, 96 percent of our nonperforming loans (NPLs) are secured. Second, losses have already been recognized on 36 percent of the total. Specifically, 31 percent of commercial loan NPLs have been written down by 52 percent or more, and all residential real estate NPLs greater than 180 days old have been written down to net realizable value. Third, there are certain NPLs for which there are loan level reserves in the allowance, while other NPLs are covered by general reserves."
 
()
Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing
1
(Excluding Insured/Guaranteed GNMA and Similar Loans)
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing totaled $22.2 billion at December 31, 2009, and $18.9 billion at September 30, 2009. For the same period ends, the totals included $15.3 billion and $12.9 billion, respectively, in advances pursuant to the Company's servicing agreement to Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) mortgage pools and similar loans whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Allowance for Credit Losses
The allowance for credit losses, including the reserve for unfunded commitments, totaled $25.0 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $24.5 billion at September 30, 2009. The credit reserve reflects management's estimate of inherent losses in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2009. Primary drivers of the increased allowance this quarter included $100 million associated with additional life-of-loan losses for several commercial PCI credits (as mentioned above, while this deterioration is reflected as credit costs, related improvements in any PCI loans are reflected as increased revenues) and the remainder associated with residential real estate loan modification programs.
The allowance coverage to total loans increased to 3.20 percent compared with 3.07 percent at September 30, 2009. The allowance coverage to NPLs was 103 percent at December 31, 2009, compared with 118 percent at September 30, 2009. "In 2009, we provided $3.5 billion of reserves in excess of charge-offs, bringing total loan loss reserves to more than $25 billion," said Loughlin. "In addition to the loan loss reserve, we also began 2010 with $22.9 billion available specifically to absorb losses in the PCI portfolio; i.e. to cover losses on the most severely distressed portion of the Wachovia loan portfolio. We believe the
 
allowance was adequate for losses inherent in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2009, including both performing and nonperforming loans."
For additional detail on credit quality and trends, please refer to the quarterly supplement.
Business Segment Performance
Wells Fargo defines its operating segments by product type and customer segment. Segment net income for each of the three business segments was:
More financial information about the business segments is on pages 39 and 40.
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services in 39 states and D.C., and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states and D.C.
Selected Financial Information
Community Banking reported net income of $2.1 billion in fourth quarter 2009, down $565 million from third quarter. Revenue was flat compared with third quarter, driven by strong mortgage fee income offset by a decrease in net interest margin. Noninterest income increased $285 million from prior quarter driven by continued strength in mortgage banking. Noninterest expense increased $618 million, including employee benefit-related expenses, volume-related mortgage expenses, project expenses and seasonal software license and maintenance expenses, partially offset by Wachovia merger-related cost saves. The provision for credit losses increased $331 million, and included a $385 million credit reserve build compared with a $265 million credit reserve build in prior quarter.
 
Regional Banking Highlights for Legacy Wells Fargo
Regional Banking Highlights for Wachovia
Combined Regional Banking
Online Banking
 
Wells Fargo Home Mortgage (Home Mortgage)
Wholesale Banking
provides financial solutions to businesses across the United States with annual sales generally in excess of $10 million and financial institutions globally. Products include middle market banking, corporate banking, commercial real estate, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance brokerage, foreign exchange, correspondent banking, trade services, specialized lending, equipment finance, corporate trust, investment banking, capital markets and asset management.
Selected Financial Information
Wholesale Banking reported net income of $1.0 billion compared with $598 million in third quarter 2009. Average core deposits were $163 billion, up 42 percent (annualized) from prior quarter, driven by strong growth in government and institutional banking as well as deposits from international customers. Loan loss provision in excess of net charge-offs decreased substantially to $115 million in fourth quarter 2009, from $627 million in third quarter, while net charge-offs increased to $835 million from $733 million last quarter. Of those losses, $167 million related to PCI loans, down from $204 million last quarter. Recoveries from the PCI portfolio that were recorded as revenue totaled $214 million, up from $124 million last quarter.
Middle market banking ranks #1 in market share defined as overall lead relationship penetration. With 112 offices stretched across the country and expanded product and distribution capabilities, we saw tremendous gains in 2009. According to , more middle market businesses borrowed from Wells Fargo in 2009 than any other institution, and Wells Fargo established the most new relationships. Commercial banking relationships in the West have achieved an average of 7.8 products per relationship. The conversion of Wachovia regional commercial banking offices to the Wells Fargo operating model is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter 2010, providing significant opportunities for cross-selling products within the middle market business.
Greenwich Associates
 
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement
provides a full range of financial advisory services to clients using a comprehensive planning approach to meet each client's needs. Wealth Management provides affluent and high net worth clients with a complete range of wealth management solutions including financial planning, private banking, credit, investment management and trust. Family Wealth meets the unique needs of the ultra high net worth customers. Retail Brokerage's financial advisors serve customers' advisory, brokerage and financial needs as part of one of the largest full-service brokerage firms in the U.S. Retirement provides retirement services for individual investors and is a national leader in 401(k) and pension record keeping.
Selected Financial Information
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement reported net income of $131 million, compared with $244 million in prior quarter. The earnings decline was driven by the reserve incurred in connection with the ARS settlement as previously disclosed. Revenue was $2.9 billion, down slightly from prior quarter, as higher asset-based revenues were offset by lower securities gains in the brokerage business. Total provision for credit losses decreased $141 million from prior quarter, largely reflecting a credit reserve build in the third quarter. Noninterest expense was up 10 percent from prior quarter largely due to the ARS reserve. Average core deposits increased $8.0 billion, or 27 percent (annualized), from third quarter, reflecting continued success in attracting client assets, including deposits.
 
Retail Brokerage
Wealth Management
Retirement
Conference Call
The Company will host a live conference call on Wednesday, January 20, at 7:30 a.m. PST (10:30 a.m. EST). To access the call, please dial 866-872-5161 (U.S. and Canada) or 706-643-1962 (international). No password is required. The call is also available online at and .
wellsfargo.com/invest_relations/earnings
http://event.meetingstream.com/r.htm?e=186436&s=1&k=1D289141D2BE92DD111DC7C959592BB8
A replay of the conference call will be available beginning at approximately noon PST (3 p.m. EST) on January 20 through Wednesday, January 27. Please dial 800-642-1687 (U.S. and Canada) or 706-645-9291 (international) and enter Conference ID #48998396. The replay will also be available online at and .
wellsfargo.com/invest_relations/earnings
http://event.meetingstream.com/r.htm?e=186436&s=1&k=1D289141D2BE92DD111DC7C959592BB8
Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Information
In accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we caution you that this news release contains forward-looking statements about our future financial performance and business. We make forward-looking statements when we use words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "should," "may," "can," "will," "outlook," "project" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements in this news release include, among others, statements about: (i) future credit quality, the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, the level of nonperforming assets and nonaccrual loans, expected or estimated future losses in our loan portfolios and life-of-loan loss estimates, including our expectations regarding consumer and commercial loan losses in 2010 and that the Pick-a-Pay portfolio will perform better than management's expectations at the time of the Wachovia merger; (ii) reduction or mitigation of risk in our loan portfolios and the effects of loan modification programs; (iii) the amount and timing of expected integration activities, expenses and cost savings relating to the Wachovia merger, as well as the expected synergies and benefits of the merger, including that we currently estimate merger expenses of less than $5.0 billion and that we currently are on track to achieve $5.0 billion annual run rate cost savings by the expected completion of the integration in 2011; and (iv) the impact on our balance sheet and capital of the consolidation of certain off-balance sheet assets under FAS 166 and FAS 167.
 
Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements as actual results could differ materially from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we do not undertake to update them to reflect changes or events that occur after that date. Several factors could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations including: current and future economic and market conditions, including the effects of further declines in housing prices and high unemployment rates; our capital requirements and our ability to generate capital internally or raise capital on favorable terms; the terms of capital investments or other financial assistance provided by the U.S. government; financial services reform; the extent of success in our loan modification efforts; our ability to successfully and timely integrate the Wachovia merger and realize the expected cost savings and other benefits, including delays or disruptions in system conversions and higher severance costs; our ability to realize efficiency initiatives to lower expenses when and in the amount expected; recognition of other-than-temporary impairment on securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio; the effect of changes in interest rates on our net interest margin and our mortgage originations, mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held for sale; hedging gains or losses; disruptions in the capital markets and reduced investor demand for mortgage loans; our ability to sell more products to our customers; the effect of the economic recession on the demand for our products and services; the effect of fluctuations in stock market prices on fee income from our brokerage, asset and wealth management businesses; our election to provide support to our mutual funds for structured credit products they may hold; changes in the value of our venture capital investments; changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards or in how accounting standards are to be applied, including the implementation of FAS 166 and FAS 167 and its effects on the consolidation of additional assets on our balance sheet and capital; mergers and acquisitions; federal and state regulations; reputational damage from negative publicity, fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations; the loss of checking and saving account deposits to other investments such as the stock market; and fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. There is no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be adequate to cover future credit losses, especially if credit markets, housing prices, and unemployment do not improve. Increases in loan charge-offs or in the allowance for credit losses and related provision expense could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition. For more information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, refer to our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009, and September 30, 2009, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as amended by our Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 11, 2009, including the discussions under "Risk Factors" in each of those reports, as filed with the SEC and available on the SEC's website at . Any factor described above or in our SEC reports could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our financial results and condition.
www.sec.gov
About Wells Fargo
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $1.2 trillion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through more than 10,000 stores and 12,000 ATMs and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and internationally.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1) (2)
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1) (2)
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)(2)
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS)
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)(2)
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS)
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER NONPERFORMING ASSETS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS
Certain loans acquired from Wachovia have evidence of credit deterioration since origination and it is probable that we will not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments (referred to as "purchased credit-impaired"(PCI) loans). Such loans are accounted for under ASC 310-30, (American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 03-3, ). These accounting provisions require that acquired loans be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date and prohibits carryover of the related allowance for loan losses. The difference between contractually required payments and cash flows expected to be collected is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. The difference between the cash flows expected to be collected and the fair value is referred to as the accretable yield.
Receivables
Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer
Because PCI loans have been written down in purchase accounting to an amount estimated to be collectible, such loans are not classified as nonaccrual even though they may be contractually past due. Also, losses on such loans are charged against the nonaccretable difference established in purchase accounting and, as such, are not reported as charge-offs.
As a result of the application of ASC 310-30 to credit-impaired Wachovia loans, certain ratios of the combined company cannot be used to compare a portfolio that includes PCI loans against one that does not, or to compare ratios across quarters or years. The ratios particularly affected include the allowance for loan losses and allowance for credit losses as percentages of loans, of nonaccrual loans and of nonperforming assets; nonaccrual loans and nonperforming assets as a percentage of total loans; and net charge-offs as a percentage of loans.
FAIR VALUE OF PCI LOANS ACQUIRED
PCI loans had an unpaid principal balance of $83.6 billion at December 31, 2009, and $98.2 billion at December 31, 2008 (refined), and a carrying value, before the deduction of the allowance for PCI loan losses, of $51.7 billion and $59.2 billion, respectively. The following table provides details on the PCI loans acquired from Wachovia.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CHANGES IN NONACCRETABLE DIFFERENCE FOR PCI LOANS
The nonaccretable difference was established in purchase accounting for PCI loans to absorb losses expected at that time on those loans. Amounts absorbed by the nonaccretable difference do not affect the income statement or the allowance for credit losses. The following table provides an analysis of changes in the nonaccretable difference related to principal that is not expected to be collected.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CHANGES IN ACCRETABLE YIELD RELATED TO PCI LOANS
The excess of cash flows expected over the carrying value of PCI loans is referred to as the accretable yield and is accreted into interest income over the estimated remaining life of the PCI loans. The accretable yield will otherwise change due to:
For PCI loans, the impact of loan modifications is included in the quarterly evaluation of expected cash flows for subsequent decreases or increases of cash flows. For variable rate PCI loans, expected future cash flows will be recalculated as the rates adjust over the lives of the loans. At acquisition, the expected future cash flows were based on the variable rates that were in effect at that time. The change in the accretable yield related to PCI loans is presented in the following tables.
CHANGES IN ALLOWANCE FOR PCI LOAN LOSSES
When it is estimated that the nonaccretable difference is not sufficient to absorb losses on a PCI loan or pool an allowance is established and a provision for additional loss is recorded as a charge to income. The following tables summarize the changes in allowance for PCI loan losses.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
PICK-A-PAY PORTFOLIO
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIOS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 1
CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES (
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 1
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES (
)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN TOTAL EQUITY
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
TIER 1 COMMON EQUITY
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING (CONTINUED)
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION DATA
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


