FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20100503160734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 29, 2010, the Company filed with the Delaware Secretary of State a Certificate of Amendment of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation which, effective upon filing, increased the number of shares of the Company's common stock authorized for issuance from 6 billion to 9 billion.
The Certificate of Amendment of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation is filed herewith as Exhibit 3(a) and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Company held its annual meeting of stockholders on April 27, 2010. At the meeting, stockholders elected all 16 of the directors nominated by the Board of Directors and ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as independent auditors for 2010. Each director received a greater number of votes cast "for" his or her election than votes cast "against" his or her election as reflected below. In addition, stockholders approved the compensation of the Company's named executive officers as disclosed in the Company's 2010 proxy statement and the amendment to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, and did not approve the four stockholder proposals presented at the meeting, as follows:
Election of Director Nominees
 
Proposal to Approve a Non-Binding Advisory Resolution Regarding the Compensation of the Company's Named Executives
 
Proposal to Approve an Amendment to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation
 
Proposal to Ratify the Appointment of KPMG LLP as Independent Auditors for 2010
 
Stockholder Proposal Regarding an Advisory Vote on Executive and Director Compensation
 
Stockholder Proposal Regarding a Policy to Require an Independent Chairman
 
Stockholder Proposal Regarding a Report on Charitable Contributions
 
Stockholder Proposal Regarding a Report on Political Contributions
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laurel A. Holschuh, Senior Vice President, and Rachelle M. Graham, Assistant Secretary, of Wells Fargo & Company, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), do hereby certify:
FIRST: That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company duly held on February 23, 2010, a resolution was duly adopted setting forth a proposed amendment of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, declaring the advisability of the amendment, and directing that the amendment be presented to stockholders of the Company for their consideration at the next annual meeting of the stockholders to be held on April 27, 2010. The resolution setting forth the proposed amendment is as follows:
RESOLVED that an amendment to ARTICLE FOURTH of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, to increase the authorized common stock to 9,000,000,000 shares is hereby proposed and declared advisable, and the following amendment to the first sentence of ARTICLE FOURTH is hereby directed to be presented to the stockholders of the Company for consideration at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 27, 2010:
FOURTH: The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the corporation shall have authority to issue is Nine Billion Twenty-Four Million (9,024,000,000), consisting of Twenty Million (20,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock without par value, Four Million (4,000,000) shares of Preference Stock without par value, and Nine Billion (9,000,000,000) shares of Common Stock of the par value of $1
 2
/
3
 per share.
SECOND: That at such annual meeting of stockholders, duly called and held upon notice in accordance with Section 222 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which notice set forth in full the proposed amendment, a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company were voted in favor of the amendment.
THIRD: That the amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY has caused this Certificate to be signed by Laurel A. Holschuh, its Senior Vice President, and attested by Rachelle M. Graham, its Assistant Secretary, this 29th day of April, 2010.
 


