FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20100317162155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 17, 2010, Wachovia Bank, N.A., a subsidiary of Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company"), issued a press release announcing the settlement of certain regulatory compliance matters that occurred prior to its acquisition by the Company. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Charlotte, NC, March 17, 2010  Wachovia Bank, N.A., said today that it has entered into agreements with the U.S. Department of Justice and banking regulators concerning previously disclosed compliance matters that occurred prior to its acquisition by Wells Fargo & Company. The agreements address Wachovia's Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) compliance program and primarily relate to customer accounts held by Mexican money exchange houses in Wachovia's Global Financial Institutions and Trade Services (GFITS) division between 2004 and 2007.
As part of the agreements, Wachovia will pay a total of $160 million. Wells Fargo learned about these matters before acquiring Wachovia and established reserves in prior periods that will fully cover the settlement amounts.
The agreements consist of the following:
 
 
The focus of these investigations was primarily in the GFITS division of Wachovia Bank from 2004 to 2007, well before Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia at the end of 2008. By early 2008, Wachovia Bank had exited all relationships with foreign money exchange houses. Wachovia Bank has fully cooperated with the Federal Government throughout the course of its investigation. That cooperation has continued since the merger of Wachovia and Wells Fargo.
Wachovia has made significant enhancements to its AML and BSA compliance program that have strengthened its ability to guard against unlawful use of its system by wrongdoers. Over the past three years, Wachovia, and since January 2009, Wachovia as part of Wells Fargo, has invested $42 million evaluating and improving the BSA/AML compliance program. Since its acquisition by Wells Fargo, Wachovia has also been subject to Wells Fargo's BSA/AML compliance program and compliance and operational risk management, oversight and independent testing. The company continues to dedicate significant resources to this area, and is committed to maintaining compliant and effective BSA/AML practices and policies and a strong compliance culture across the integrated organization.
In addition to this matter, Wachovia Bank, N.A. and the Department of Justice have resolved the remaining outstanding issues related to relationships Wachovia had from 2003 to 2008 with payment processors for telemarketing companies, including Payment Processing Center, LLC. Wachovia reached a settlement with the OCC on this issue in
2008 and has paid restitution to consumers who may have been subject to fraud by the telemarketers.
These settlements complete all pending bank-specific investigations of Wachovia's correspondent banking business.
Wachovia Bank, N.A., is a subsidiary of Wells Fargo & Company.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $1.2 trillion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through more than 10,000 stores and 12,000 ATMs and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and internationally.


