FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20110420080106.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 20, 2011, Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (the "Press Release"), and posted on its website its 1Q11 Quarterly Supplement (the "Quarterly Supplement"), which contains certain additional historical and forward-looking information relating to the Company. The Press Release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02. The information included in Exhibit 99.1 is considered to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Quarterly Supplement is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02. Exhibit 99.2 shall not be considered "filed" for purposes of Section 18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933. The Company will report complete financial statements and additional analyses for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, as part of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q covering that period.
On April 20, 2011, the Company intends to host a live conference call that will also be available by webcast to discuss the Press Release, the Quarterly Supplement, and other matters relating to the Company.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Selected Financial Information
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) reported record net income of $3.8 billion, or $0.67 per diluted common share, for first quarter 2011, up from $2.5 billion, or $0.45 per share, for first quarter 2010.
"Our strong first quarter results reflected positive trends in our business fundamentals as credit quality improved, capital ratios increased and cross-selling reached new highs," said Chairman and CEO John Stumpf. "As the economy continued an uneven recovery, our business customers increased borrowing and utilization of credit lines  a hopeful sign that businesses are once again investing for growth. Consumers continue to be hesitant to borrow, yet our robust deposit growth reflects the strong loyalty and market share we enjoy among customers. We also marked an historic return of the Wells Fargo name to the New York market as we celebrated our 159th anniversary and converted banking stores in Connecticut, Delaware, New Jersey and New York during the quarter. Our Pennsylvania banking stores were converted successfully this past weekend and we expect to convert all remaining Wachovia stores by the end of this year.
"We were extremely pleased to return additional capital to our shareholders in the first quarter with an increased common stock dividend. This action, coupled with the reinstatement of our common stock repurchase program and the calling of certain high-cost trust preferred securities, reflects the continued strength of our capital position. The diversity of Wells Fargo's business lines enables us to better serve all our customers' financial needs and enhances the stability and strength of our earnings which in turn provides the foundation that supports us in doing the right thing for our customers and our shareholders every day, for the long term. Our focus is on improving our efficiency, investing wisely, making every good loan we can, helping customers emerge from the economic downturn, and building an ever-stronger capital base."
"In the first quarter, our businesses again produced strong results for shareholders  demonstrating the power of our diversified business model and risk discipline," said Chief Financial Officer Tim Sloan. "Our focus on expanding customer relationships was evident in this quarter's growth in core deposits, net checking accounts and many commercial loan portfolios. While revenue declined from the prior quarter, our expense and risk management discipline helped produce record results  evidence of the benefits our business model provides our shareholders. Expenses declined significantly from fourth quarter and credit quality continued to improve, with the second consecutive quarterly decline in nonperforming loans and the fifth consecutive quarter of lower net charge-offs. Capital levels grew once again, with Tier 1 common equity reaching 8.9 percent under Basel I at March 31, 2011, and an estimated 7.2 percent under current Basel III capital proposals. Integration activities remain on track and, after converting customers in Pennsylvania, we now have 74 percent of our banking customers company-wide on a single system. We believe our franchise has never been better positioned to capture future growth opportunities."
Financial Performance
 
Revenue was $20.3 billion, compared with $21.5 billion in fourth quarter 2010 and $21.4 billion in first quarter 2010. The linked-quarter decline in revenue was primarily due to lower mortgage banking revenue (down $741 million) and lower net interest income. Many businesses generated linked-quarter revenue growth, including commercial mortgage servicing, fixed income and equity sales and trading, global remittance, real estate capital markets, retail brokerage, retirement services, SBA lending and wealth management.
Revenue
Net interest income was $10.7 billion, compared with $11.1 billion in fourth quarter 2010. The net interest margin was 4.05 percent, down 11 basis points from 4.16 percent in fourth quarter 2010. Approximately one-half of the decline in margin was due to a lower level of accelerated income from purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loan resolutions and securities redemptions predominantly related to legacy Wachovia positions. The remaining portion of the decline in margin was attributable to higher levels of low-yielding cash and short-term investments reflecting the Company's interest rate risk management discipline. Other than these items, the margin was essentially flat compared with last quarter.
Net Interest Income
Noninterest income was $9.7 billion, down $623 million, or 6 percent, from first quarter 2010, and down $753 million from fourth quarter 2010, almost entirely attributable to the decline in mortgage banking income. On a linked-quarter basis, card fees were higher driven by new account growth and increased card usage by existing customers. Gains on trading assets were up (improved fixed income environment) as were debt securities results (lower losses from sales of lower-yielding bonds) and gains from equity investments. Trust and investment fees were down modestly, reflecting lower bond and equity originations after a particularly strong fourth quarter, partially offset by higher retail brokerage asset-based fees. Insurance fees were seasonally lower.
Noninterest Income
Mortgage banking noninterest income was $2.02 billion, down $741 million from fourth quarter 2010 on $84 billion of originations compared with $128 billion of originations in fourth quarter. Mortgage banking noninterest income in first quarter included a $249 million provision for mortgage loan repurchase losses compared with $464 million in fourth quarter (included in net gains from mortgage loan origination/sales activities). Net mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) results were a $379 million gain compared with a $143 million loss in fourth quarter 2010. The ratio of MSRs to related loans serviced for others was 92 basis points and the average note rate on the servicing portfolio was 5.31 percent, compared with an average 4.86 percent published rate in the Freddie Mac Primary Mortgage Market Survey at quarter-end. The unclosed pipeline at March 31, 2011, was $45 billion compared with $73 billion at December 31, 2010.
 
The Company had net unrealized securities gains of $8.9 billion at March 31, 2011, up $549 million from fourth quarter 2010. Net realized equity gains of $353 million were partially offset by $166 million of realized bond losses.
Noninterest expense was $12.7 billion, down $607 million from fourth quarter 2010 and up $616 million from a year ago. First quarter expenses included $440 million of merger integration costs (down from $534 million in fourth quarter 2010), $472 million of operating losses (up from $193 million in fourth quarter 2010) substantially all from additional litigation accruals for foreclosure-related matters, and seasonally higher incentive compensation expenses. "We continue to focus on managing costs across our company, without compromising future growth opportunities," said Sloan. "Certain expenses in the quarter remained elevated, including loan resolution costs and merger costs. As we conclude the integration process, and as the economy continues to recover, we expect these expenses to decline. It's also important to note that expense reductions in some of our large variable-cost businesses, such as consumer mortgage origination, can sometimes lag related reductions in revenue."
Noninterest Expense
Total loans were $751.2 billion at March 31, 2011, compared with $757.3 billion at December 31, 2010, including non-strategic/liquidating portfolios. These portfolios (legacy Wells Fargo Financial indirect auto, liquidating home equity, legacy Wells Fargo Financial debt consolidation, education finance government loans, Pick-a-Pay mortgage, and other PCI) declined $6.5 billion in the quarter. Excluding this planned reduction, total loans increased modestly from the prior quarter. Average loans increased $402 million from last quarter and many portfolios had linked-quarter average loan growth, including auto dealer services, asset-backed finance, brokerage, commercial banking, commercial real estate, corporate banking, government banking, international, private student lending and SBA lending. "The increase in loan balances this quarter reflected new customer relationships, as well as increased borrowing by existing commercial customers," said Sloan.
Loans
 
 
Average core deposits were $796.8 billion, up 5 percent from a year ago and 1 percent (annualized) from fourth quarter 2010. Consumer checking accounts grew a net 7.4 percent from March 31, 2010. Average checking and savings deposits were $722.5 billion, up 9 percent from a year ago and up 4 percent (annualized) from fourth quarter 2010. Average mortgage escrow deposits were $27.9 billion compared with $24.6 billion a year ago and $36.0 billion in fourth quarter 2010. Average checking and savings deposits were 91 percent of average core deposits, up from 88 percent a year ago. The average deposit cost for first quarter 2011 was 30 basis points compared with 31 basis points in fourth quarter 2010. Total core deposits were 106 percent of total loans at March 31, 2011.
Deposits
Capital ratios increased again in the quarter, reflecting continued strong internal capital generation. The Company took several capital actions contemplated in its capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve, including increasing the quarterly common stock dividend rate to $0.12 a share, reinstating the common stock repurchase program, and calling $3.2 billion of high-cost trust preferred securities that will no longer count as Tier 1 capital under Dodd-Frank and Basel III. "We have confidence in our capital plan, which recognizes the continued strength of our capital position and supports our goal of returning over time to a more normalized common stock dividend payout ratio of 30 percent," said Sloan. "We appreciate the patience and loyalty our shareholders have demonstrated and look forward to returning more capital over time."
Capital
The Company's effective income tax rate was 29.5 percent for first quarter 2011. This rate included the benefit associated with the realization for tax purposes of a previously written down investment. Currently, the Company's estimate of its full year 2011 effective tax rate is approximately 32 percent.
Income Tax Expense
 
Net charge-offs decreased significantly from $3.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010 to $3.2 billion in the first quarter. "The first quarter marked the fifth consecutive quarter of declining loan losses and the second consecutive quarter of reduced nonperforming assets," said Mike Loughlin, Chief Risk Officer. "Delinquency trends continued to improve across the portfolio for both early and late stage delinquencies. Six percent of the retail loan portfolio was 30 days or more past due, down 15 percent from the previous quarter. While these improvements were partially driven by seasonal factors, the improving economic landscape and customer optimism also contributed to a more positive credit environment. Reflecting the improved overall portfolio performance, the provision for credit losses was $1.0 billion less than net charge-offs. Absent significant deterioration in the economy, we expect future reserve releases," said Loughlin.
Credit Quality
First quarter net charge-offs were $3.2 billion, or 1.73 percent (annualized) of average loans, down $629 million from fourth quarter net charge-offs of $3.8 billion (2.02 percent). Net charge-offs improved across all major portfolio segments. "We continue to be optimistic about the improvements in credit quality and remain focused on managing through this cycle," said Loughlin.
Credit Losses
  
Net Loan Charge-Offs
 
Nonperforming assets ended the quarter at $30.6 billion, down 5 percent from $32.4 billion in the fourth quarter. Nonaccrual loans declined to $25.0 billion from $26.2 billion in the fourth quarter, with reductions in commercial and industrial, commercial real estate construction and each of the consumer categories: 1-4 family first mortgage, 1-4 family junior lien mortgage, and other revolving credit and installment.
Nonperforming Assets
 
Nonaccrual Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing also improved in the quarter, totaling $17.9 billion at March 31, 2011, compared with $18.5 billion at December 31, 2010. For the same dates, the totals included $15.5 billion in mortgage loans and $15.8 billion in student loans whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or predominantly guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs for mortgages and the U.S. Department of Education for student loans under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. Excluding these insured guaranteed loan balances, 90 days past due and accruing balances were down 8 percent from the prior quarter.
Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing
 
The allowance for credit losses, including the allowance for unfunded commitments, totaled $22.4 billion at March 31, 2011, down from $23.5 billion at December 31, 2010. The allowance coverage to total loans remained stable with the first quarter at 2.98 percent. The allowance covered 1.72 times annualized first quarter net charge-offs compared with 1.54 times in the prior quarter. The allowance coverage to nonaccrual loans was 90 percent at March 31, 2011, compared with 89 percent at December 31, 2010. "We believe the allowance was adequate for losses inherent in the loan portfolio at March 31, 2011," said Loughlin.
Allowance for Credit Losses
Additional detail on credit quality is included in the quarterly supplement, available on the Investor Relations page at
www.wellsfargo.com/invest_relations/investor_relations/
Wells Fargo defines its operating segments by product type and customer segment. Segment net income for each of the three business segments was:
Business Segment Performance
More financial information about the business segments is on page 38.
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services in 39 states and D.C., and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states and D.C. through its Regional Banking and Wells Fargo Home Mortgage business units.
Selected Financial Information
Community Banking reported net income of $2.2 billion, up $251 million, or 13 percent, from prior quarter and up $760 million, or 54 percent, from first quarter 2010. Revenue decreased $835 million, from fourth quarter 2010 driven primarily by a decrease in mortgage banking income, as lower originations/sales activities more than offset an increase in servicing income, and by the expected
 
reduction in the liquidating loan portfolios, mitigated by gains on asset disposition. Revenue decreased $1.3 billion, or 10 percent, from first quarter 2010 largely due to lower mortgage banking income, lower deposit service charges due to Regulation E and the expected reduction in the liquidating loan portfolios. Noninterest expense decreased $250 million, or 3 percent, from fourth quarter 2010, which included a $400 million charitable contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation, reflecting in part lower software license and equipment maintenance expense, partially offset by an increase in operating losses (substantially all from litigation accruals for foreclosure-related matters) and seasonally higher personnel expenses. The provision for credit losses decreased $720 million from fourth quarter 2010 due to a $520 million decrease in net loan charge-offs and an $850 million reserve release compared with a $650 million reserve release in fourth quarter 2010.
Regional Banking Highlights
 
Wells Fargo Home Mortgage (Home Mortgage)
 
Wholesale Banking
provides financial solutions to businesses across the United States with annual sales generally in excess of $20 million and to financial institutions globally. Products & business units include Middle Market Commercial Banking, Government & Institutional Banking, Corporate Banking, Commercial Real Estate, Treasury Management, Wells Fargo Capital Finance, Insurance, International, Real Estate Capital Markets, Commercial Mortgage Servicing, Corporate Trust, Equipment Finance, Investment Banking & Capital Markets, Securities Investment Portfolio, Asset Backed Finance, and Asset Management.
Selected Financial Information
 
Wholesale Banking reported net income of $1.7 billion, up $415 million, or 34 percent, from first quarter 2010 and down $38 million, or 2 percent, from prior quarter. Revenue increased $37 million, or 1 percent, from prior year driven by growth in net interest income due to stronger earnings assets, solid deposit growth and higher loan portfolio yields. Noninterest income declined from first quarter 2010 as growth in investment banking and capital markets, corporate banking, foreign exchange and real estate capital markets was more than offset by reduced levels of PCI portfolio recoveries, crop insurance gains and trading portfolio income. Revenue decreased $380 million, or 7 percent, from the prior quarter as strong loan growth in commercial banking and international was more than offset by lower PCI-related recoveries and other gains. Noninterest expense increased $115 million, or 4 percent, from prior year related to higher personnel expenses and decreased $192 million from prior quarter related to lower litigation expense. Total provision for credit losses of $134 million declined $676 million, or 83 percent, from first quarter 2010. The decrease included a $150 million allowance release in the first quarter along with a $526 million improvement in credit losses.
 
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement
provides a full range of financial advisory services to clients using a comprehensive planning approach to meet each client's needs. Wealth Management provides affluent and high net worth clients with a complete range of wealth management solutions including financial planning, private banking, credit, investment management and trust. Family Wealth meets the unique needs of the ultra high net worth customers. Retail Brokerage's financial advisors serve customers' advisory, brokerage and financial needs as part of one of the largest full-service brokerage firms in the U.S. Retirement provides retirement services for individual investors and is a national leader in 401(k) and pension record keeping.
Selected Financial Information
 
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement reported net income of $339 million, up $142 million from fourth quarter 2010 and up $57 million from first quarter 2010. Revenue was $3.2 billion, up 4 percent from fourth quarter 2010 driven by asset-based revenues and brokerage securities gains and up 8 percent from first quarter 2010 driven by higher asset-based revenues and net interest income. Total provision for credit losses decreased $72 million from fourth quarter 2010 and $22 million from first quarter 2010. Noninterest expense declined 2 percent from fourth quarter on reduced non-personnel costs but increased 7 percent from first quarter 2010 due to growth in personnel costs, primarily broker commissions driven by higher production levels. Average core deposits increased $4 billion from fourth quarter 2010 and first quarter 2010.
Retail Brokerage
 
Wealth Management
Retirement
Conference Call
The Company will host a live conference call on Wednesday, April 20, at 6:30 a.m. PDT (9:30 a.m. EDT). To access the call, please dial 866-872-5161 (U.S. and Canada) or 706-643-1962 (international). No password is required. The call is also available online at and .
wellsfargo.com/invest_relations/earnings
http://event.meetingstream.com/r.htm?e=296339&s=1&k=F045CCDCDDD6B9CB7191D93FDBDD1147
A replay of the conference call will be available beginning at approximately noon PDT (3 p.m. EDT) on April 20 through Wednesday, April 27. Please dial 800-642-1687 (U.S. and Canada) or 706-645-9291 (international) and enter Conference ID #51667731. The replay will also be available online at .
wellsfargo.com/invest_relations/earnings
 
Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Information
In accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we caution you that this news release contains forward-looking statements about our future financial performance and business. We make forward-looking statements when we use words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "should," "may," "can," "will," "outlook," "project," "appears" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements in this news release include, among others, statements about: (i) future credit quality and expected or estimated future loan losses in our loan portfolios, and the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, including our current expectation of future reductions in the allowance for loan losses; (ii) our current estimate of our full year 2011 tax rate; (iii) our estimates regarding our Tier 1 common equity ratio as of March 31, 2011, and December 31, 2010, under proposed Basel III capital regulations; and (iv) the timing of expected integration activities related to the Wachovia merger, as well as other expectations regarding future expenses.
Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements as actual results could differ materially from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we do not undertake to update them to reflect changes or events that occur after that date. Several factors could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations including: current and future economic and market conditions, including the effects of further declines in housing prices and high unemployment rates; our capital requirements (including under regulatory capital standards as determined and interpreted by applicable regulatory authorities such as the proposed Basel III capital regulations) and our ability to generate capital internally or raise capital on favorable terms; financial services reform and other current, pending or future legislation or regulation that could have a negative effect on our revenue and businesses (including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act); the extent of success in our loan modification efforts, including the effects of regulatory requirements, or changes in regulatory requirements, relating to loan modifications; the amount of mortgage loan repurchase demands that we receive and our ability to satisfy any such demands without having to repurchase loans related thereto or otherwise indemnify or reimburse third parties; negative effects relating to mortgage foreclosures, including changes in our procedures or practices and/or industry standards or practices, regulatory or judicial requirements, penalties or fines, increased servicing and other costs, or delays or moratoriums on foreclosures; our ability to successfully and timely integrate the Wachovia merger and realize the expected cost savings and other benefits, including delays or disruptions in system conversions and higher severance costs; our ability to realize efficiency initiatives to lower expenses when and in the amount expected; recognition of other-than-temporary impairment on securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio; the effect of changes in interest rates on our net interest margin and our mortgage originations, mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held for sale; hedging gains or losses; disruptions in the capital markets and reduced investor demand for mortgage loans; our ability to sell more products to our customers; the effect of the economic recession on the demand for our products and services; the effect of fluctuations in stock market prices on fee income from our brokerage, asset and wealth management businesses; our election to provide support to our mutual funds for structured credit products they may hold; changes in the value of our venture capital investments; changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards or in how accounting standards are to be applied; changes in our credit ratings and changes in the credit ratings of our customers or counterparties; mergers and acquisitions; federal and state regulations; reputational damage from negative publicity, fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations; the loss of checking and saving account deposits to other investments such as the stock market; and fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. There is no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be adequate to cover future credit losses, especially if credit markets, housing prices, and unemployment do not improve. Increases in loan charge-offs or in the allowance for credit losses and related provision expense could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition. For more information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, refer to our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, including the discussion under "Risk Factors" in that report, as filed with the SEC and available on the SEC's website at . Any factor described above or in our SEC reports could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our financial results and condition.
www.sec.gov
 
About Wells Fargo
Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) is a nationwide, diversified, community-based financial services company with $1.2 trillion in assets. Founded in 1852 and headquartered in San Francisco, Wells Fargo provides banking, insurance, investments, mortgage, and consumer and commercial finance through more than 9,000 stores, 12,000 ATMs, the Internet (wellsfargo.com and wachovia.com), and other distribution channels across North America and internationally. With approximately 280,000 team members, Wells Fargo serves one in three households in America. Wells Fargo & Company was ranked No. 19 on 2009 rankings of America's largest corporations. Wells Fargo's vision is to satisfy all our customers' financial needs and help them succeed financially.
Fortune's
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
NM - Not meaningful
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (1)(2)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (1)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
 
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER NONPERFORMING ASSETS
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS
Loans purchased with evidence of credit deterioration since origination and for which it is probable that all contractually required payments will not be collected are considered to be credit impaired. PCI loans represent loans acquired from Wachovia that were deemed to be credit impaired. Evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the purchase date may include statistics such as past due and nonaccrual status, recent borrower credit scores and recent LTV percentages. PCI loans are initially measured at fair value, which includes estimated future credit losses expected to be incurred over the life of the loan. Accordingly, the associated allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not carried over at the acquisition date.
Under the accounting guidance for PCI loans, the excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the estimated fair value is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans, in situations where there is a reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash flows expected to be collected. Accordingly, such loans are not classified as nonaccrual and they are considered to be accruing because their interest income relates to the accretable yield recognized under accounting for PCI loans and not to contractual interest payments. The difference between the contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition, considering the impact of prepayments, is referred to as the nonaccretable difference.
Subsequent to acquisition, we regularly evaluate our estimates of cash flows expected to be collected. These evaluations, performed quarterly, require the continued usage of key assumptions and estimates, similar to the initial estimate of fair value. If we have probable decreases in the expected cash flows (other than due to a decrease in rate indices), we charge the provision for credit losses, resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan losses. If we have probable and significant increases in the expected cash flows subsequent to establishing an additional allowance, we first reverse any previously established allowance and then increase interest income over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans.
As a result of PCI loan accounting, certain credit-related ratios cannot be used to compare a portfolio that includes PCI loans against one that does not, or to compare ratios across quarters or years. The ratios particularly affected include the allowance for loan losses and allowance for credit losses as percentages of loans, of nonaccrual loans and of nonperforming assets; nonaccrual loans and nonperforming assets as a percentage of total loans; and net charge-offs as a percentage of loans.
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CHANGES IN NONACCRETABLE DIFFERENCE FOR PCI LOANS
The difference between the contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition, considering the impact of prepayments, is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. A nonaccretable difference was established in purchase accounting for PCI loans to absorb losses expected at that time on those loans. Amounts absorbed by the nonaccretable difference do not affect the income statement or the allowance for credit losses. Substantially all our commercial, CRE and foreign PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans. Conversely, Pick-a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into several pools based on common risk characteristics. Each pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. Resolutions of loans may include sales of loans to third parties, receipt of payments in settlement with the borrower, or foreclosure of the collateral. Our policy is to remove an individual loan from a pool based on comparing the amount received from its resolution with its contractual amount. Any difference between these amounts is absorbed by the nonaccretable difference established for the entire pool. This removal method assumes that the amount received from resolution approximates pool performance expectations. The remaining accretable yield balance is unaffected and any material change in remaining effective yield caused by this removal method is addressed by our quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each pool. For loans in pools that are resolved by payment in full, there is no release of the nonaccretable difference since there is no difference between the amount received at resolution and the contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI loans are not removed from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be deemed troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). Modified PCI loans that are accounted for individually are considered TDRs if there has been a concession granted in excess of the original nonaccretable difference. The following table provides an analysis of changes in the nonaccretable difference related to principal that is not expected to be collected.
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CHANGES IN ACCRETABLE YIELD RELATED TO PCI LOANS
The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the carrying value of PCI loans is referred to as the accretable yield and is accreted into interest income over the estimated lives of the PCI loans using the effective yield method. The accretable yield is affected by:
The change in the accretable yield related to PCI loans is presented in the following table.
 
 
CHANGES IN ALLOWANCE FOR PCI LOAN LOSSES
When it is estimated that the expected cash flows have decreased subsequent to acquisition for a PCI loan or pool of loans, an allowance is established and a provision for additional loss is recorded as a charge to income. The following table summarizes the changes in allowance for PCI loan losses.
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
PICK-A-PAY PORTFOLIO (1)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NON-STRATEGIC AND LIQUIDATING LOAN PORTFOLIOS
 
HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIOS (1)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN TOTAL EQUITY
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER TIER 1 COMMON EQUITY (1)
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (1)
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING (CONTINUED)
 
 
 
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION DATA
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CHANGES IN LIABILITY FOR MORTGAGE LOAN REPURCHASE LOSSES
 
OUTSTANDING REPURCHASE DEMANDS AND MORTGAGE INSURANCE RESCISSIONS
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


