FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20111026114511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 25, 2011, the board of directors (the "Board") of Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") elected Federico F. Pea to the Company's Board, effective November 1, 2011. Mr. Pea will be considered an independent director under the New York Stock Exchange's corporate governance listing standards and the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines. He has been appointed to serve on the Board's Audit and Examination Committee.
Mr. Pea will receive customary fees and equity awards from the Company for serving as a director in accordance with the Company's non-employee director compensation program as described in the Company's 2011 proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 21, 2011. Under the non-employee director compensation program, Mr. Pea will automatically be granted a stock award on November 1, 2011 under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan of shares of Company common stock having a fair market value of approximately $70,000. The number of shares of Company common stock subject to the stock award will be determined by dividing the award value by the closing price of Company common stock on November 1, 2011, rounded up to the nearest whole share. The stock award vests in full on the date of grant. Additional information regarding equity awards under the non-employee director compensation program is set forth in Exhibit 10(x) of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
The Company's news release (the "News Release") announcing the election of Mr. Pea to the Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 26, 2011 - Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) announced today that its board of directors has elected Federico F. Pea, a senior advisor of Vestar Capital Partners, and former U.S. Secretary of Transportation and U.S. Secretary of Energy, to the company's board of directors, effective Nov. 1, 2011.
Pea will serve on the board's Audit and Examination Committee. His election increases the size of the company's board to 16 directors.
"I'm pleased to announce that Federico Pea, who has an impressive record of business, civic and public policy achievements, is joining our board," said John Stumpf, Wells Fargo's chairman, president and CEO. "Throughout his career, Mr. Pea has led large-scale national projects and championed innovative change for the benefit of public and private enterprises. We welcome him to Wells Fargo as we strive to meet the needs of diverse communities and stakeholders."
"Wells Fargo has demonstrated a long-standing commitment to its team members, customers, shareholders, and communities, which has resulted in it being among the most successful financial services companies in the world," Pea said. "I look forward to working with the other board members and management as Wells Fargo continues to help its customers succeed financially."
"Wells Fargo is very fortunate to be able to add Mr. Pea's leadership skills and experience to the board," said Philip J. Quigley, lead director of Wells Fargo's board and chair of its Governance and Nominating Committee. "The board will benefit from his extensive financial, regulatory and public policy expertise and we look forward to working with him."
Pea has been a senior advisor of Vestar Capital Partners since January 2009, and previously served as a managing director of Vestar from 1999 to 2009. Vestar is a global private equity firm that specializes in management buyouts, recapitalizations and going private transactions. Prior to joining Vestar, he served the Clinton Administration and led the Department of Transportation from 1993 to 1997 and then the Department of Energy from 1997 to 1998. Pea founded and was president and CEO of Pea Investment Advisors, an asset management firm, from 1991 to 1993 and served as the mayor of the city and county of Denver, Colorado from 1983 to 1991, the first Latino to hold that elected office. He served in the Colorado House of Representatives from 1979 until 1983 and practiced law for 10 years in Colorado. Pea is a member of the board of directors of Sonic Corporation and the Toyota North American Diversity Advisory Board, as well as a member of several non-profit organizations, including the COMPETE Coalition.
Pea earned his undergraduate and law degrees from the University of Texas.
 
About Wells Fargo
Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) is a nationwide, diversified, community-based financial services company with $1.3 trillion in assets. Founded in 1852 and headquartered in San Francisco, Wells Fargo provides banking, insurance, investments, mortgage, and consumer and commercial finance through more than 9,000 stores, 12,000 ATMs, the Internet (wellsfargo.com and wachovia.com), and other distribution channels across North America and internationally. With more than 270,000 team members, Wells Fargo serves one in three households in America. Wells Fargo & Company was ranked No. 23 on 2011 rankings of America's largest corporations. Wells Fargo's vision is to satisfy all our customers' financial needs and help them succeed financially.
Fortune's
 


