FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20120322163954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits are filed herewith in connection with the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-159738) filed by Wells Fargo & Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
On March 22, 2012, Wells Fargo & Company issued the following Medium-Term Notes, Series K: Current Income Notes Linked to a Global ETF Basket due September 22, 2015.
The purpose of this Current Report is to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the form of Note related to the issuance, the opinion of Faegre Baker Daniels LLP regarding the Notes and the opinion of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, Wells Fargo & Company's special tax counsel, regarding the Notes.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (""), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
DTC
 
WELLS FARGO & COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & Co., or registered assigns, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts, an amount equal to the Redemption Amount (as defined below) on the Stated Maturity Date, and to pay interest on the Face Amount hereof from March 22, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for semi-annually on each March 22 and September 22, commencing September 22, 2012 and ending at Maturity (each, an ""), at the rate of 3.25% per annum. The "" shall be September 22, 2015. If no Market Disruption Event (as defined below) occurs or is continuing with respect to a Basket Component (as defined below) on the scheduled Calculation Day (as defined below), the Initial Stated Maturity Date will be the "." If a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing with respect to a Basket Component on the scheduled Calculation Day, the "" shall be the later of (i) three Business Days (as defined below) after the postponed Calculation Day with respect to such Basket Component (or, if the Calculation Day is postponed with respect to more than one Basket Component, three Business Days after the latest postponed Calculation Day) and (ii) the Initial Stated Maturity Date.
Company
Interest Payment Date
Initial Stated Maturity Date
Stated Maturity Date
Stated Maturity Date
"" shall mean, when used with respect to this Security, the amount set forth on the face of this Security as its "Face Amount."
Face Amount
Payment of Interest and the Redemption Amount
The interest so payable on this Security, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest next preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that the interest payable on the Stated Maturity Date shall be paid to the Person to whom the Redemption Amount is paid. The Regular Record Date for an Interest Payment Date shall be the fifteenth calendar day, whether or not a Business Day, prior to such Interest Payment Date. If an Interest Payment Date is not a Business Day, interest on this Security shall be payable on the next day that is a Business Day, with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date, and without any interest or other payment with respect to the delay.
Except as described below for the first Interest Period, on each Interest Payment Date, interest will be paid for the period commencing on and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date and ending on and including the day immediately preceding that Interest Payment Date. This period is referred to as an "Interest Period." The first Interest Period will commence on and include March 22, 2012 and end on and include September 21, 2012. Interest on this Security will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Any interest not punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
Payment of interest on this Security will be made in immediately available funds at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota; provided, however, that, at the option of the Company, payment of interest may be paid by check mailed to the Person entitled thereto at such Person's last address as it appears in the Security Register or by wire transfer to such account as may have been designated by such Person. Any payments on this Security at Maturity, including the Redemption Amount, will be made against presentation of this Security at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota and at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for so long as this Security is a Global Security registered in the name of the Depositary, all payments on this Security will be made to the Depositary by wire transfer of immediately available funds.
 
Determination of Redemption Amount
The "" of this Security will equal:
Redemption Amount
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" shall mean a basket comprised of the following Basket Components, with the return of each Basket Component having the weighting noted parenthetically: SPDR S&P MidCap 400 ETF Trust (22%); iShares Russell 2000 Index Fund (15%); iShares MSCI EAFE Index Fund (42%); and iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund (21%).
Basket
"" shall mean each of the SPDR S&P MidCap 400 ETF Trust, iShares Russell 2000 Index Fund, iShares MSCI EAFE Index Fund and iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund.
Basket Component
"" shall mean each of the S&P MidCap 400 Index, the Russell 2000 Index, the MSCI EAFE Index and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
Underlying Index
The "" shall mean March 19, 2012.
Pricing Date
The "" is 100.
Starting Price
The "" will be calculated based on the weighted returns of the Basket Components and will be equal to the product of (i) 100 and (ii) an amount equal to 1 plus the sum of: (A) 22% of the Component Return of the SPDR S&P MidCap 400 ETF Trust; (B) 15% of the Component Return of the iShares Russell 2000 Index Fund; (C) 42% of the Component Return of the iShares MSCI EAFE Index Fund; and (D) 21% of the Component Return of the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund.
Ending Price
 
The "" of a Basket Component will be equal to:
Component Return
    where,
 
 
The Initial Component Prices of the Basket Components are as follows: SPDR S&P MidCap 400 ETF Trust ($182.35); iShares Russell 2000 Index Fund ($83.73); iShares MSCI EAFE Index Fund ($55.80); and iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund ($43.92).
The "," with respect to a Basket Component on any Trading Day, means the product of (i) the Closing Price of one share of such Basket Component (or one unit of any other security for which a Fund Closing Price must be determined) on such Trading Day and (ii) the Adjustment Factor applicable to such Basket Component on such Trading Day.
Fund Closing Price
The "" with respect to a share of a Basket Component (or one unit of any other security for which a Closing Price must be determined) on any Trading Day means the price, at the scheduled weekday closing time, without regard to after hours or any other trading outside the regular trading session hours, of the share on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, on which the share (or any such other security) is listed or admitted to trading.
Closing Price
The "" means, with respect to a share of a Basket Component (or one unit of any other security for which a Fund Closing Price must be determined), 1.0, subject to adjustment in the event of certain events affecting the shares of such Basket Component. See "Anti-dilution Adjustments Relating To A Basket Component; Alternate CalculationAnti-dilution Adjustments."
Adjustment Factor
The "" is 126% of the Face Amount of this Security.
Capped Value
The "" is equal to 90% of the Starting Price.
Threshold Price
The "" is 100%.
Participation Rate
"" shall mean a day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York or Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Business Day
A "" with respect to a Basket Component means a day, as determined by the Calculation Agent, on which (i) the Relevant Exchange (as defined below) with respect to such Basket Component is open for trading for its regular trading session and (ii) the Relevant Exchange on which futures or options contracts related to such Basket Component or any successor thereto, if applicable, are traded, are open for trading for their respective regular trading sessions.
Trading Day
 
The "" shall be September 15, 2015. If such day is not a Trading Day with respect to any Basket Component, the Calculation Day for such Basket Component will be postponed to the next succeeding day that is a Trading Day for such Basket Component. The Calculation Day is also subject to postponement due to the occurrence of a Market Disruption Event. If a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing with respect to a Basket Component on the Calculation Day, such Calculation Day for such Basket Component will be postponed to the first succeeding Trading Day on which a Market Disruption Event for such Basket Component has not occurred and is not continuing. If such first succeeding Trading Day has not occurred as of the eighth scheduled Trading Day after the scheduled Calculation Day for such Basket Component, that eighth scheduled Trading Day shall be deemed the Calculation Day. If the Calculation Day has been postponed eight scheduled Trading Days after the scheduled Calculation Day for such Basket Component and such eighth scheduled Trading Day is not a Trading Day, or if a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing with respect to the Basket Component on such eighth scheduled Trading Day, the Calculation Agent will determine its good faith estimate of the Closing Price of such Basket Component on such eighth scheduled Trading Day. Notwithstanding a postponement of a Calculation Day for a particular Basket Component due to a non-Trading Day or Market Disruption Event with respect to such Basket Component, the originally scheduled Calculation Day will remain the Calculation Day for any Basket Component not affected by a non-Trading Day or Market Disruption Event. See "Market Disruption Events."
Calculation Day
"" shall mean the Calculation Agent Agreement dated as of March 22, 2012 between the Company and the Calculation Agent, as amended from time to time.
Calculation Agent Agreement
"" shall mean the Person that has entered into the Calculation Agent Agreement with the Company providing for, among other things, the determination of the Ending Price and the Redemption Amount, which term shall, unless the context otherwise requires, include its successors under such Calculation Agent Agreement. The initial Calculation Agent shall be Wells Fargo Securities, LLC. Pursuant to the Calculation Agent Agreement, the Company may appoint a different Calculation Agent from time to time after the initial issuance of this Security without the consent of the Holder of this Security and without notifying the Holder of this Security.
Calculation Agent
Market Disruption Events
A "" means, with respect to a Basket Component, any of the following events as determined by the Calculation Agent in its sole discretion:
Market Disruption Event
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of determining whether a Market Disruption Event has occurred:
 
 
 
Anti-dilution Adjustments Relating To A Basket Component; Alternate Calculation
Anti-dilution Adjustments
The Calculation Agent, in its sole discretion, may adjust the Adjustment Factor as a result of certain events related to a Basket Component or any Successor Fund, as applicable, which occur during the term of this Security. Such events include, but are not limited to, the following:
(A)
Stock Splits and Reverse Stock Splits
If a stock split or reverse stock split has occurred, then once such split has become effective, the Adjustment Factor will be adjusted to equal the product of the prior Adjustment Factor and the number of securities which a holder of one share (or other applicable security) of such Basket Component before the effective date of such stock split or reverse stock split would have owned or been entitled to receive immediately following the applicable effective date.
(B)
Stock Dividends
If a (i) stock dividend (i.e., issuance of additional shares (or other applicable security) by a Basket Component) that is given ratably to all holders of record of shares (or other applicable security) of a Basket Component or (ii) distribution of shares (or other applicable security) of a Basket Component has occurred, then once the dividend has become effective and the shares (or other applicable security) of such Basket Component are trading ex-dividend, the Adjustment Factor will be adjusted on the ex-dividend date to equal the prior Adjustment Factor plus the product of the prior Adjustment Factor and the number of shares (or other applicable security) of such Basket Component which a holder of one share (or other applicable security) of such Basket Component before the date the dividend became effective and the shares (or other applicable security) of such Basket Component traded ex-dividend would have owned or been entitled to receive immediately following that date; provided, however, that no adjustment will be made for a distribution for which the number of securities of such Basket Component paid or distributed is based on a fixed cash equivalent value, unless such distribution is an Extraordinary Dividend as defined and discussed below.
(C)
Extraordinary Dividends
If an Extraordinary Dividend (as defined below) has occurred, then on the ex-dividend date, the Adjustment Factor will be adjusted to equal the product of the prior Adjustment Factor and a fraction, the numerator of which is the Closing Price per share (or other applicable security) of such Basket Component on the Trading Day preceding the ex-dividend date, and the denominator of which is the amount by which the Closing Price per share (or other applicable security) of such Basket Component on the Trading Day preceding the ex-dividend date exceeds the Extraordinary Dividend Amount (as defined below).
 
For purposes of determining whether an Extraordinary Dividend has occurred:
 
 
 
 
To the extent an Extraordinary Dividend is not paid in cash, the value of the non-cash component will be determined by the Calculation Agent. A distribution on the securities of such Basket Component described below under the sections entitled "Other Distributions" and "Reorganization Events" below that also constitute an Extraordinary Dividend will only cause an adjustment pursuant to those sections.
(D)
Other Distributions
If a Basket Component declares or makes a distribution to all holders of the shares (or other applicable security) of such Basket Component of any class of its capital stock, evidences of its indebtedness or other non-cash assets, including, but not limited to, transferable rights and warrants, then, in each of these cases, the Adjustment Factor will equal the product of the prior Adjustment Factor and a fraction, the numerator of which will be the Closing Price per share (or other applicable security) of such Basket Component, and the denominator of which will be the Closing Price per share (or other applicable security) of such Basket
 
Component, less the fair market value, as determined by the Calculation Agent, as of the time the adjustment is effected of the portion of the capital shares, assets, evidences of indebtedness, rights or warrants so distributed or issued applicable to one share (or other applicable security) of such Basket Component.
(E)
Reorganization Events
If a Basket Component, or any Successor Fund, is subject to a merger, combination, consolidation or statutory exchange of securities with another exchange traded fund, and such Basket Component is not the surviving entity, then, on or after the date of such event, the Calculation Agent shall, in its sole discretion, make an adjustment to the Adjustment Factor or the method of determining the Redemption Amount or any other terms of this Security as the Calculation Agent determines appropriate to account for the economic effect on this Security of such event (including adjustments to account for changes in volatility, expected dividends, stock loan rate or liquidity relevant to this Security), and determine the effective date of that adjustment. If the Calculation Agent determines that no adjustment that it could make will produce a commercially reasonable result, then the Calculation Agent may deem such event a Liquidation Event (as defined below).
Liquidation Events
If a Basket Component is de-listed, liquidated or otherwise terminated (a ""), and a successor or substitute exchange traded fund exists that the Calculation Agent determines, in its sole discretion, to be comparable to such Basket Component, then, upon the Calculation Agent's notification of that determination to the Trustee and the Company, any subsequent Fund Closing Price for such Basket Component will be determined by reference to the Fund Closing Price of such successor or substitute exchange traded fund (such exchange traded fund being referred to herein as a "").
Liquidation Event
Successor Fund
Upon any selection by the Calculation Agent of a Successor Fund, the Company will cause notice to be given to Holder of this Security.
If a Basket Component undergoes a Liquidation Event prior to, and such Liquidation Event is continuing on, the date that the Fund Closing Price of such Basket Component is to be determined and the Calculation Agent determines that no Successor Fund is available at such time, then the Calculation Agent will, in its discretion, calculate the Fund Closing Price for such Basket Component on such date by a computation methodology that the Calculation Agent determines will as closely as reasonably possible replicate such Basket Component.
If a Successor Fund is selected or the Calculation Agent calculates the Fund Closing Price as a substitute for a Basket Component, such Successor Fund or Fund Closing Price will be used as a substitute for such Basket Component for all purposes, including for purposes of determining whether a Market Disruption Event exists.
 
If at any time the method of calculating a Basket Component or a Successor Fund, or the related Underlying Index, is changed in a material respect, or if a Basket Component or a Successor Fund is in any other way modified so that such Basket Component does not, in the opinion of the Calculation Agent, fairly represent the price of the securities of such Basket Component or such Successor Fund had such changes or modifications not been made, then the Calculation Agent will, at the close of business in New York City on the date that the Fund Closing Price is to be determined, make such calculations and adjustments as, in the good faith judgment of the Calculation Agent, may be necessary in order to arrive at a Closing Price of an exchange traded fund comparable to such Basket Component or Successor Fund, as the case may be, as if such changes or modifications had not been made, and calculate the Fund Closing Price and the Redemption Amount with reference to such adjusted Closing Price of such Basket Component or such Successor Fund, as applicable.
Calculation Agent
The Calculation Agent will determine the Redemption Amount and the Ending Price. In addition, the Calculation Agent will (i) determine if adjustments are required to the Fund Closing Price and/or the Adjustment Factor of a Basket Component under the circumstances described in this Security, (ii) if a Basket Component undergoes a Liquidation Event, select a Successor Fund or, if no Successor Fund is available, determine the Fund Closing Price of such Basket Component, and (iii) determine whether a Market Disruption Event has occurred.
The Company covenants that, so long as this Security is Outstanding, there shall at all times be a Calculation Agent (which shall be a broker-dealer, bank or other financial institution) with respect to this Security.
All determinations made by the Calculation Agent with respect to this Security will be at the sole discretion of the Calculation Agent and, in the absence of manifest error, will be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Company and the Holder of this Security. All percentages and other amounts resulting from any calculation with respect to this Security will be rounded at the Calculation Agent's discretion.
Tax Considerations
The Company agrees, and by acceptance of a beneficial ownership interest in this Security each beneficial owner of this Security will be deemed to have agreed (in the absence of a statutory, regulatory, administrative or judicial ruling to the contrary), for United States federal income tax purposes to characterize and treat this Security as a pre-paid coupon-bearing derivative contract in respect of the Basket.
Redemption and Repayment
This Security is not subject to redemption at the option of the Company or repayment at the option of the Holder hereof prior to September 22, 2015. This Security is not entitled to any sinking fund.
 
Acceleration
If an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, with respect to this Security shall occur and be continuing, the Redemption Amount (calculated as set forth in the next sentence) of this Security may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The amount payable to the Holder hereof upon any acceleration permitted under the Indenture will be equal to the Redemption Amount hereof calculated as provided herein as though the date of acceleration was the Calculation Day; provided, however, if such date is not a Trading Day or if a Market Disruption Event has occurred or is continuing on that day, the Calculation Day will be postponed as provided herein.
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature or its duly authorized agent under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
DATED:             
 
[SEAL]
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the
series designated therein described
in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
OR
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of July 21, 1999, as amended or supplemented from time to time (herein called the ""), between the Company and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series of the Securities designated as Medium-Term Notes, Series K, of the Company, which series is limited to an aggregate principal amount or face amount, as applicable, of $25,000,000,000 or the equivalent thereof in one or more foreign or composite currencies. The amount payable on the Securities of this series may be determined by reference to the performance of one or more equity-, commodity- or currency-based indices, exchange traded funds, securities, commodities, currencies, statistical measures of economic or financial performance, or a basket comprised of two or more of the foregoing, or any other market measure or may bear interest at a fixed rate or a floating rate. The Securities of this series may mature at different times, be redeemable at different times or not at all, be repayable at the option of the Holder at different times or not at all and be denominated in different currencies.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
Article Sixteen of the Indenture shall not apply to this Security.
The Securities are issuable only in registered form without coupons and will be either (a) book-entry securities represented by one or more Global Securities recorded in the book-entry system maintained by the Depositary or (b) certificated securities issued to and registered in the names of, the beneficial owners or their nominees.
The Company agrees, to the extent permitted by law, not to voluntarily claim the benefits of any laws concerning usurious rates of interest against a Holder of this Security.
Modification and Waivers
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the
 
time Outstanding of all series to be affected, acting together as a class. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of all series at the time Outstanding affected by certain provisions of the Indenture, acting together as a class, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with those provisions of the Indenture. Certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences may be waived under the Indenture by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series. Solely for the purpose of determining whether any consent, waiver, notice or other action or Act to be taken or given by the Holders of Securities pursuant to the Indenture has been given or taken by the Holders of Outstanding Securities in the requisite aggregate principal amount, the principal amount of this Security will be deemed to be equal to the amount set forth on the face hereof as the "Face Amount" hereof. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Defeasance
Section 403 and Article Fifteen of the Indenture and the provisions of clause (ii) of Section 401(1)(B) of the Indenture, relating to defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and certain Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, shall not apply to this Security. The remaining provisions of Section 401 of the Indenture shall apply to this Security.
Authorized Denominations
This Security is issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000.
Registration of Transfer
Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Security at the office or agency of the Company in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota, a new Security or Securities of this series, with the same terms as this Security, in authorized denominations for an equal aggregate Face Amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange herefor, as provided in the Indenture and subject to the limitations provided therein and to the limitations described below, without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
This Security is exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form only if (x) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Security or if at any time the Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and a successor depositary is not appointed within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this Security shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form and notifies the Trustee thereof or (z) an Event of Default with respect to the Securities represented hereby has occurred and is continuing. If this Security is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence, it shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form, bearing interest at the same rate, having the same date of issuance, Stated Maturity Date and other terms and of authorized denominations aggregating a like amount.
 
This Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor of the Depositary or a nominee of such successor. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Global Security will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Securities in definitive form and will not be considered the Holders hereof for any purpose under the Indenture.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Obligation of the Company Absolute
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the interest on this Security and the Redemption Amount at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed, except as otherwise provided in this Security.
No Personal Recourse
No recourse shall be had for the payment of interest on this Security or the Redemption Amount, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.
Defined Terms
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture unless otherwise defined in this Security.
Governing Law
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
 
Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act
 
 
(State)
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto
FOR VALUE RECEIVED,
Please Insert Social Security or
Other Identifying Number of Assignee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the within Security of WELLS FARGO & COMPANY and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint             attorney to transfer the said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
March 22, 2012
Wells Fargo & Company
420 Montgomery Street
San Francisco, California 94163
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel for Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") in connection with (i) the preparation of a Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-159738 (the "Registration Statement"), of the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), relating to the proposed offer and sale from time to time of the securities referred to therein and (ii) Pricing Supplement No. 178 dated March 19, 2012 to Product Supplement No. 4 dated May 28, 2010, the Prospectus Supplement dated April 23, 2010 and the Prospectus dated June 4, 2009 relating to the offer and sale by the Company under the Registration Statement of $17,617,000 aggregate face amount of Medium-Term Notes, Series K, Current Income Notes linked to a Global ETF Basket due September 22, 2015 (the "Notes"). The Notes are to be issued under the Indenture dated as of July 21, 1999 (the "Indenture") entered into by the Company and Citibank, N.A., as trustee, and sold pursuant to the Terms Agreement dated March 19, 2012, between the Company and the Agent named therein (the "Terms Agreement").
We have examined such documents, records and instruments as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this opinion.
Based on the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the Notes have been duly authorized and, when duly executed by the Company, authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, and delivered to and paid for by the Agent pursuant to the Terms Agreement, the Notes will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization,
insolvency, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance, receivership or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and subject to general equity principles including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith, fair dealing and the possible unavailability of specific performance, injunctive relief or other equitable remedies (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and except further as enforcement thereof may be limited by any governmental authority that limits, delays or prohibits the making of payments outside of the United States. As contemplated by the foregoing qualifications, in rendering the foregoing opinion, we are expressing no opinion as to Federal or state laws relating to fraudulent transfers. Without limiting any other qualifications set forth herein, the opinions expressed herein are subject to the effect of generally applicable laws that limit the waiver of rights under usury laws.
We have relied as to certain relevant facts upon certificates of, and/or information provided by, officers and employees of the Company as to the accuracy of such factual matters without independent verification thereof or other investigation. We have also relied, without investigation, upon the following assumptions: (i) natural persons acting on behalf of the Company have sufficient legal capacity to enter into and perform, on behalf of the Company, the transaction in question; (ii) each party to agreements or instruments relevant hereto other than the Company has satisfied those legal requirements that are applicable to it to the extent necessary to make such agreements or instruments enforceable against it; (iii) each party to agreements or instruments relevant hereto other than the Company has complied with all legal requirements pertaining to its status as such status relates to its rights to enforce such agreements or instruments against the Company; and (iv) each document submitted to us for review is accurate and complete, each such document that is an original is authentic, each such document that is a copy conforms to an authentic original, and all signatures on each such document are genuine.
The opinions expressed herein are limited to the specific issues addressed and to documents and laws existing on the date hereof. By rendering our opinion, we do not undertake to advise you with respect to any other matter or of any change in such documents and laws or in the interpretation thereof which may occur after the date hereof.
Our opinions set forth herein are limited to the laws of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the federal laws of the United States of America, and we are expressing no opinion as to the effect of any other laws.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed with the Commission and thereby incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
 

Exhibit 8.1
Wells Fargo & Company,
    420 Montgomery Street,
        San Francisco, California 94163.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special tax counsel to Wells Fargo & Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the issuance of $17,617,000 aggregate face amount of Medium-Term Notes, Series K, Current Income Notes Linked to a Global ETF Basket due September 22, 2015 as described in the Company's Pricing Supplement No. 178 dated March 19, 2012 ("Pricing Supplement 178") to Product Supplement No. 4 dated May 28, 2010, Prospectus Supplement dated April 23, 2010 and the Prospectus dated June 4, 2009 contained in the Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-159738. We hereby confirm our opinion as set forth under the headings "Material Tax Consequences" and "United States Federal Income Tax Considerations" in Pricing Supplement 178.
We hereby consent to the reference to us under the headings "Material Tax Consequences" and "United States Federal Income Tax Considerations" in Pricing Supplement 178 and to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and thereby incorporated by reference into the Company's Registration Statement. In giving such consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 


