FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20120224121356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On February 23, 2012, the Company filed with the Delaware Secretary of State a Certificate Eliminating the Certificate of Designations with respect to the Company's 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock which, effective upon filing, eliminated from the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation all matters set forth in the Certificate of Designations for the 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on March 26, 2002.
The Certificate Eliminating the Certificate of Designations with respect to the Company's 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock is filed herewith as Exhibit 3(a) and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3(a)
 
 
 
 
The undersigned DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board of Directors of Wells Fargo & Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), at a meeting duly convened and held on January 24, 2012, at which a quorum was present and acting throughout:
WHEREAS resolutions were adopted by the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board of Directors, which resolutions are set forth in a Certificate of Designations filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on March 26, 2002, providing for and authorizing the issuance of 238,000 shares of 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock; and
WHEREAS as of December 31, 2011, all the outstanding shares of the 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock were converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of common stock of the Company.
RESOLVED that none of the authorized shares of the 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock are outstanding and none will be issued subject to the Certificate of Designations previously filed on March 26, 2002 with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware with respect to such series.
RESOLVED that the Chairman, the President, any Vice Chairman, any Senior Executive Vice President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary are hereby authorized to execute, acknowledge, and file such instruments and documents as they, or any of them, may deem necessary or advisable to eliminate from the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, all matters set forth in said Certificate of Designations with respect to the 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY has caused its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and this Certificate to be signed by Heidi M. Dzieweczynski, its Senior Vice President, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 23rd day of February, 2012.
 
 


