FILE:NFLX/NFLX-8K-20030417162809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The information provided in this Report is being furnished under Item 12 of Form 8-K and in accordance with SEC release 33-8216.
 
On April 17, 2003, Netflix, Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2003. The press release, which has been attached as Exhibit 99.1 discloses certain financial measures, non-GAAP operating income, EBITDA free cash flow, and estimated subscriber lifetime value calculations, that may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. In order to fully assess our financial operating results, management believes that non-GAAP operating income, EBITDA, free cash flow and estimated subscriber lifetime value are appropriate measures of evaluating the operating performance and liquidity performance of the Company because it believes that investors and equity research analysts use these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its performance and to make informed investment decisions. Management also believes that these measures present a more representative measure of the operating and liquidity performance of the Company because they exclude the non-cash impact of stock option accounting. However these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, operating income, net income, net cash provided by operating activities or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The non-GAAP measures included in our press release have been reconciled to the nearest GAAP measure.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 17, 2003
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LOS GATOS, CA  April 17, 2003  Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) announced strong financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2003. According to Reed Hastings, founder and CEO of Netflix, "The Company broadly outperformed its financial expectations for the quarter. Our strategic focus on improving the Netflix user experience, which produced record low churn and a lower gross margin this quarter, has created a better business model, accelerating the growth of revenue and non-GAAP net income for the full year 2003 and beyond."
 
 
Revenue, Subscribers, and Churn
 
Total revenue for the first quarter was a record $55.7 million, up 82 percent compared to $30.5 million for the first quarter 2002, and up 23 percent compared to $45.2 million for the fourth quarter 2002.
 
Netflix ended the first quarter of 2003 with approximately 1,052,000 total subscribers. During the quarter Netflix acquired 417,000 new trial subscribers, a 34 percent year-over-year increase from the 312,000 new trial subscribers acquired in the first quarter of 2002 and a sequential increase of 32 percent over the 315,000 new trial subscribers acquired in the fourth quarter of 2002. For a graphical presentation of the Company's household penetration growth for those metropolitan shipping centers opened for more than six months, please link to http://ir.netflix.com/news/hubgrowth.pdf.
 
Average monthly subscriber churn for the first quarter of 2003 was 5.8 percent as compared to 7.2 percent in the first quarter of 2002 and 6.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2002. Churn includes free trial subscribers as well as paying subscribers who elect not to renew their monthly subscription service during the quarter. Churn rates were better than expected throughout the quarter for free trial and paying subscribers.
 
Gross Margin
 
Gross margin for the first quarter was 46.1 percent, down from 48.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2002. Disc usage per average paid subscriber increased 15 percent during the first quarter. This increase resulted in a lower gross margin for the quarter. Increased disc usage resulted from faster local delivery of DVDs to the Company's subscribers. Faster delivery was enabled by certain software and operational improvements to the Company's fulfillment operations during the quarter, including the roll-out of five additional metropolitan shipping centers.
 
Subscriber Acquisition Cost
 
Subscriber acquisition cost
1
for the first quarter was $31.67 per new-trial subscriber compared to a cost of $25.44 for the first quarter 2002 and a cost of $33.31 for the fourth quarter 2002.
 
Non-GAAP Net Income, EBITDA, and Free Cash Flow
 
Netflix reported non-GAAP net income of $31,000, or $0.00 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2003 compared to a non-GAAP net loss of $1.7 million, or a loss of $0.81 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2002 and non-GAAP net income of $463 thousand, or $0.02 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2002. Non-GAAP net income equals net loss on a GAAP basis before stock-based compensation expense. GAAP net loss was $4.5 million, or $0.20 per basic and diluted share, for the first quarter of 2003 compared to a GAAP net loss of $4.5 million, or $2.20 per basic and diluted share for the first quarter of 2002 and GAAP net loss of $2.3 million, or $0.10 per basic and diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2002.
 
EBITDA for the first quarter 2003 was $8.4 million, up 117 percent compared to $3.9 million for the first quarter ended 2002 and up 4 percent compared to $8.1 million for the fourth quarter ended 2002. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") is defined as operating loss before stock-based compensation, depreciation of property and equipment, amortization of DVD library, amortization of intangibles, non-cash charges for equity granted to non-employees and loss on disposal of property and equipment.
 
Free cash flow for the first quarter 2003 was $5.5 million or 10 percent of revenue, up 671 percent from $0.7 million in the first quarter 2002 and up 16 percent compared to $4.7 million for the fourth quarter ended 2002. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2003, the Company generated $20.6 million of free cash flow and finished the first quarter with $110.3 million of cash and short-term investments. Less outstanding debt of
 
1
"Subscriber acquisition cost" or SAC is defined as the total marketing expense on the Company's Statement of Operations divided by total new trial subscribers in the quarter.
 
$1.3 million, this equates to net cash of $109.0 million or $4.75 per issued and outstanding share. Non-GAAP free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by from operating activities less net cash used in investing activities excluding purchases of short-term investments. Cash provided by operating activities for the first quarter 2003 was $12.8 million up 97 percent from $6.5 million in the first quarter 2002 and down 11 percent compared to $14.4 million for the fourth quarter ended 2002.
 
Non-GAAP Estimated Subscriber Lifetime Value
 
The lifetime value of a Netflix subscriber increased 25% from the first quarter of 2002, as record low churn extended the expected average lifetime of a subscriber. The resulting 24% increase in lifetime revenue more than offset the higher costs associated with increased DVD usage during the quarter. Lifetime EBITDA increased to an estimated $102 per subscriber from $82 in the prior year.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
In order to fully assess the Company's financial results, management believes that Non-GAAP Net Income, EBITDA, Free Cash Flow and Estimated Subscriber Lifetime Value are appropriate measures of evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company because it believes that investors and equity research analysts use these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its performance and to make informed investment decisions. Management also believes that these measures present a more representative measure of the operating and liquidity performance of the Company because they exclude the non-cash impact of stock option accounting. However, these non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, operating income, net income, net cash provided by operating activities, or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. A detailed reconciliation to the GAAP equivalents of these Non-GAAP measures is contained in tabular form on the attached unaudited financial statements.
 
Business Outlook
 
The Company's performance expectations for the second quarter of 2003 and the full year 2003 are as follows:
 
Second Quarter, 2003
 
 
 
 
 
Full Year 2003
 
 
 
 
 
 
Float, Lock-Up Expiration, and Diluted Shares
 
The Company estimates the public float at approximately 13,733,944 shares as of March 31, 2003 based on 22,977,497 shares issued and outstanding less approximately 9,263,553 shares that are controlled by insiders, directors or executive officers of Netflix. The IPO lock-up has expired, and no outstanding shares are subject to a lock-up agreement of any kind. From time to time executive officers of Netflix may elect to sell stock in Netflix. All such sales are made pursuant to the terms of 10(b)5-1 Trading Plans.
 
Earnings Call
 
The Netflix earnings call will be web cast today at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time / 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, and may be accessed at http://www.netflix.com or at http://www.prnewswire.com. Following the conclusion of the web cast, a replay of the call will be available via Netflix's web site at . A telephone replay is also available at (719) 457-0820 access code 482749.
http://www.netflix.com
 
About Netflix
 
Netflix (Nasdaq: NFLX) is the world's largest online movie rental service providing more than one million subscribers access to over 14,500 DVD titles. For $19.95 a month, Netflix subscribers rent as many DVDs as they want and keep them as long as they want, with three movies out at a time. There are no due dates, no late fees and no shipping fees. DVDs are delivered for free by first-class mail from metropolitan shipping centers located throughout the United States. Netflix can reach more than half its subscribers with generally next-day delivery. The Company provides subscribers extensive information about DVD movies including critic reviews, member reviews, online trailers, ratings and personalized movie recommendations. For more information visit www.netflix.com.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements regarding our subscriber growth, revenues, non-GAAP net income, and EBITDA for the second quarter of 2003; our revenue, non-GAAP net income, EBITDA, gross margins, churn and subscriber acquisition costs for 2003 and subscriber lifetime value calculations. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to manage our growth, in particular managing our subscriber acquisition costs as well as the mix between revenue sharing titles and titles not subject to revenue sharing that are delivered to our subscribers; our ability to attract new subscribers and retain existing subscribers; fluctuations in consumer spending on DVD players, DVDs and related products; competition; disruption in service on our website or with our computer systems; deterioration of the U.S. economy or conditions specific to online commerce or the filmed entertainment industry; conditions that effect our delivery through the U.S. Postal Service, including increases in first class postage; increases in the costs of acquiring DVDs; and, widespread consumer adoption of different modes of viewing in-home filmed entertainment. A detailed discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 31, 2003. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this press release.
 
Netflix, Inc.
 
Statements of Operations
(Unaudited)
(in thousands, except per share data)
 
Netflix, Inc.
 
Balance Sheets
(Unaudited)
(in thousands, except share and per share data)
 
 
Netflix, Inc.
 
Statements of Cash Flows
(Unaudited)
(in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
Netflix, Inc.
 
Other data
(Unaudited)
(in thousands, except subscriber acquisition cost)
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Estimated Subscriber Lifetime Value*
 
 
*This calculation is intended to reflect income from a hypothetical subscriber paying a monthly fee of $19.95 and is not intended to reflect a revenue per subscriber calculation. Numbers have been rounded.
 
 
Non-GAAP Guidance Reconciliation Schedule
 
 
 


