FILE:NFLX/NFLX-8K-20040121162449.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
The information provided in this Report is being furnished under Item 12 of Form 8-K and in accordance with SEC release 33-8216.
 
On January 21, 2004, Netflix, Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2003. The press release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, discloses certain financial measures, in particular, non-GAAP net income and free cash flow, that may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Management believes that non-GAAP net income is a useful measure of operating performance because it excludes the non-cash impact of stock option accounting. In addition, management believes that free cash flow is a useful measure of liquidity because it excludes the non-operational cash flows from purchases and sales of short-term investments and cash flows from financing activities. However, these non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to net income and net cash provided by operating activities, or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP measures included in our press release have been reconciled to the nearest GAAP measures.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LOS GATOS, CA  January 21, 2004  Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) announced record financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2003.
 
Revenue, Subscribers and Churn
 
Total revenue for the fourth quarter was a record $81.2 million, up 80 percent compared to $45.2 million for the fourth quarter of 2002, and up 12 percent compared to $72.2 million for the third quarter of 2003. Revenue for fiscal 2003 was a record $272.2 million, up 78 percent compared to $152.8 million for fiscal 2002.
 
"Our Q4 performance and the announced stock split reflect the strong, organic and sustained growth of the Netflix model," said Reed Hastings, founder and CEO of Netflix. "Robust growth will continue in 2004 as will efficient investment in those initiatives that will sustain momentum in 2005 and beyond."
 
Netflix ended the fourth quarter of 2003 with approximately 1,487,000 total subscribers. During the quarter Netflix acquired 444,000 new trial subscribers, a 41 percent year-over-year increase from the 315,000 new trial subscribers acquired in the fourth quarter of 2002 and a sequential increase of 16 percent over the 383,000 new trial subscribers acquired in the third quarter of 2003. Household penetration continued to rise in all markets, particularly those reached by generally overnight delivery (more than 80 percent of Netflix subscribers). For a graphical representation of the Company's household penetration growth for its metro shipping markets, please link to:
http://ir.netflix.com/downloads/marketpenetration012104.pdf
 
Average monthly subscriber churn
1
for the fourth quarter of 2003 was 4.8 percent as compared to 5.2 percent in the third quarter of 2003 and 6.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2002. Churn reached a record low percentage in the quarter. Churn includes free trial subscribers as well as paying subscribers who elect not to renew their monthly subscription service during the quarter. The churn rate continued to drop in the quarter as retention rose across the subscriber base in response to the steady improvements in the quality of the Netflix service.
 
Gross Margin
 
Gross margin for the fourth quarter was 45.2 percent, slightly above the Company's guidance and, as expected, down slightly from 46.5 percent in the third quarter of 2003. The decrease in gross margin was due to increased content costs. Disc usage per average paid subscriber declined slightly during the quarter in line with expectations and was not a contributing factor to lower gross margins.
 
Subscriber Acquisition Cost
 
Subscriber acquisition cost
2
for the fourth quarter was $32.89 per new-trial subscriber compared to a cost of $33.31 for the fourth quarter of 2002 and a cost of $31.81 for the third quarter of 2003. This planned sequential increase in subscriber acquisition cost was attributable to television advertising testing during the quarter.
 
GAAP Net Income (Loss), Non-GAAP Net Income, and Free Cash Flow
 
Netflix reported GAAP net income of $2.3 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2003 compared to a GAAP net loss of $2.3 million, or a loss of $0.10 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2002 and a GAAP net income of $3.3 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2003.
 
Non-GAAP net income was $6.1 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2003 compared to a Non-GAAP net income of $463 thousand, or $0.02 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2002 and a Non-GAAP net income of $6.1 million, or $0.19 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2003. Non-GAAP net income equals net income on a GAAP basis before stock-based compensation expense.
 
Free cash flow
3
for the fourth quarter of 2003 was a record $9.2 million or 11 percent of revenue, up 95 percent from $4.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2002 and up 17 percent compared to $7.9 million for the third quarter of 2003. This is the Company's ninth consecutive quarter of positive free cash flow. Cash provided by operating activities for the fourth quarter of 2003 was $31.4 million, up 117 percent from $14.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2002 and up 43 percent compared to $22.0 million for the third quarter of 2003.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Management believes that Non-GAAP net income is a useful measure of operating performance because it excludes the non-cash impact of stock option accounting. In addition, management believes that free cash flow is a useful measure of liquidity because it excludes the non-operational cash flows from purchases and sales of short-term investments and cash flows from financing activities. However, these Non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to net income and net cash provided by operating activities, or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation to the GAAP equivalents of these Non-GAAP measures is contained in tabular form on the attached unaudited financial statements.
 
Business Outlook
 
The Company's performance expectations for the first quarter of 2004 and the full year of 2004 are as follows:
 
First Quarter 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Year 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stock Split
 
In addition, Netflix's Board of Directors has approved a two-for-one split of all outstanding shares of the Company's common stock. Stockholders on the record date of February 2, 2004 will be entitled to one additional share for every share they own on that date. New shares will be issued by the Company's transfer agent, EquiServe Trust Company, on February 11, 2004. Starting February 12, 2004, the stock will begin trading at its post-split price on the Nasdaq National Market.
 
Other News
 
Also today, Chief Financial Officer, Barry McCarthy, announced his plans to leave Netflix at the end of 2004. Mr. McCarthy said, "I've learned a tremendous amount from Reed about the right way to build and sustain a business. He will continue to run Netflix for years to come with great success. It's time for me to find a challenging CEO or COO role of my own." Netflix CEO Reed Hastings said, "Barry has been instrumental in our growth from zero to 1.5 million subscribers these last five years. I'm thrilled Netflix could provide him a platform for personal and professional growth. When he leaves in a year we will miss him greatly."
 
Float and Trading Plans
 
The Company estimates the public float at approximately 19,166,484 shares as of December 31, 2003 based on registered shares held in street name with the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation. No outstanding shares are subject to a lock-up agreement of any kind. From time to time executive officers of Netflix may elect to sell stock in Netflix. All such sales are made pursuant to the terms of 10b5-1 Trading Plans approved by the Company and generally adopted no less than three months prior to the first date of sale under such plan.
Earnings Call
 
The Netflix earnings call will be webcast today at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time / 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, and may be accessed or at . Following the conclusion of the webcast, a replay of the call will be available via Netflix's website at . For those without access to the Internet, a replay of the call will be available from 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on January 21, 2004 through January 28, 2004. To listen to a replay, call (719) 457-0820, access code 261290. The Company also plans to include discussion of its business outlook in the conference call.
at http://ir.netflix.com
http://prnewswire.com
http://ir.netflix.com
 
About Netflix
 
Netflix (Nasdaq: NFLX) is the world's largest online movie rental service, providing more than one million subscribers access to over 15,000 DVD titles. For $19.95 a month, Netflix subscribers rent as many DVDs as they want, and keep them as long as they want, with three movies out at a time. There are no due dates, no late fees and no shipping fees. DVDs are delivered for free by first-class mail from regional shipping centers located throughout the United States. Netflix can reach more than 80 percent of its subscribers with generally next-day delivery. The Company provides subscribers extensive information about DVD movies, including critic reviews, member reviews, online trailers, ratings, and personalized movie recommendations. For more information, visit .
www.netflix.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements regarding our subscriber growth, revenues, GAAP net income (loss), Non-GAAP net income, gross margin, subscriber acquisition cost and churn for the first quarter and full year of 2004. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to manage our growth, in particular managing our subscriber acquisition cost as well as the mix between revenue sharing titles and titles not subject to revenue sharing that are delivered to our subscribers; our ability to attract new subscribers and retain existing subscribers; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service, customer spending on DVD players, DVDs and related products; competition; disruption in service on our website or with our computer systems; deterioration of the U.S. economy or conditions specific to online commerce or the filmed entertainment industry; conditions that effect our delivery through the U.S. Postal Service, including increases in first class postage; increases in the costs of acquiring DVDs; and, widespread consumer adoption of different modes of viewing in-home filmed entertainment. In addition, the full year guidance for 2004 does not reflect any material financial impact associated with our potential international expansion and is therefore subject to such additional risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, our incurring significant additional costs and expense in establishing foreign operations that would cause the guidance set forth above to be materially different. The GAAP net income guidance is subject to the additional risk and uncertainty associated with fluctuations in our stock price as the calculation includes an estimate of the stock-based compensation expense that is a function of the anticipated price of our stock, which is difficult to predict given its volatility. A detailed discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 31, 2003. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this press release.
Netflix, Inc.
Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
(in thousands, except per share data)
 
Netflix, Inc.
Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
(in thousands, except share and per share data)
 
Netflix, Inc.
Statements of Cash Flows
(unaudited)
(in thousands)
 
Netflix, Inc.
Other Data
(unaudited)
(in thousands, except percentages and subscriber acquisition cost)
 
Netflix, Inc.
Non-GAAP Guidance Reconciliation Schedule
(unaudited)
(in thousands)
 


