FILE:NFLX/NFLX-8K-20041014162811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information provided in this Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically stated so therein.
 
On October 14, 2004, Netflix, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. The press release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, discloses certain financial measures that may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Management believes that non-GAAP net income is a useful measure of operating performance because it excludes the non-cash impact of stock option accounting. In addition, management believes that free cash flow is a useful measure of liquidity because it excludes the non-operational cash flows from purchases and sales of short-term investments and cash flows from financing activities. Management believes that reference to gross margin and GAAP net income, excluding the registrant's recently announced change in amortization policy and reduction in salvage value, as well as subscriber acquisition costs for the registrant's U.S. business are useful measures because they give insight to investors with respect to the ongoing operations of the registrant's primary business and allow for an equivalent comparison to prior results. However, these non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to net income and net cash provided by operating activities, or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statement and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 Netflix (Nasdaq: NFLX) today reported results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2004.
Los Gatos, Calif.  October 14, 2004
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter 2004 Financial Highlights
 
for the third quarter was a record $141.6 million, up 96 percent from $72.2 million for the third quarter of 2003, and up 18 percent from $120.3 million in the second quarter of 2004.
Revenue
 
for the third quarter was $18.9 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, compared to a GAAP net income of $3.3 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2003 and a GAAP net income of $2.9 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2004. Net income benefited from lower than expected usage in the quarter and the change in amortization policy for back catalogue DVDs as well as a reduction in salvage value.
GAAP net income
 
Excluding the change in amortization policy and reduction in salvage value, GAAP net income would have been $14.9 million or $0.23 per diluted share. On October 4, 2004, the Company announced that it revised its amortization policy for its back catalogue DVD library from a "sum of the months" accelerated method using a one-year life to the same accelerated method of amortization using a three-year life. In accordance with APB 20, the change in life was
accounted for as a change in accounting estimate on a prospective basis starting July 1, 2004. New releases will continue to be amortized over 12 months.
 
was $22.6 million, or a profit of $0.35 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2004 compared to Non-GAAP net income of $6.1 million, or $0.10 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2003 and Non-GAAP net income of $7.0 million, or $0.11 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2004. Non-GAAP net income equals net income on a GAAP basis before stock-based compensation expense. Excluding the change in amortization and reduction in salvage value, Non-GAAP net income would have been $18.6 million or $0.29 per diluted share.
Non-GAAP net income
 
Free cash flow
1
for the third quarter of 2004 was $14.1 million or 10 percent of revenue, up 80 percent from $7.9 million in the third quarter of 2003 and up 125 percent from $6.3 million in the second quarter of 2004. Cash provided by operating activities for the third quarter of 2004 was $49.3 million, up 124 percent from $22.0 million in the third quarter of 2003 and up 54 percent from $32.0 million for the second quarter of 2004.
 
for the third quarter was 49.5 percent. In the third quarter of 2004, gross margin benefited from lower than anticipated monthly movie rentals per average paying subscriber which resulted in lower than expected revenue sharing as well as postage and packaging expenses. Excluding the previously announced accounting change in amortization of back catalogue DVDs and reduction in salvage value gross margin would have been 46.6 percent.
Gross margin
 
Netflix ended the third quarter of 2004 with approximately 2,229,000 total subscribers. During the quarter Netflix acquired 590,000 new trial subscribers, a 54 percent year-over-year increase from the 383,000 new trial subscribers acquired in the third quarter of 2003 and a sequential increase of one percent from the 583,000 new trial subscribers acquired in the second quarter of 2004.
Subscribers.
 
for the third quarter was $36.97 per new-trial subscriber compared to $31.81 for the third quarter of 2003 and $35.12 for the second quarter of 2004.
SAC for US Domestic
 
Churn
2
for the third quarter of 2004 was 5.6 percent, compared to 5.2 percent in the third quarter of 2003 and unchanged from the second quarter of 2004. Churn includes free trial subscribers as well as paying subscribers who elect not to renew their monthly subscription service during the quarter.
 
Business Outlook
 
Netflix expects the business environment to become increasingly competitive in the coming year, which management will discuss in the conference call this afternoon.
 
"Over the past five years, Netflix has built the largest base of subscribers for online DVD rentals with more than 2.2 million customers nationwide," said Reed Hastings, chairman and CEO of Netflix. "We expect to spend the next year rapidly acquiring subscribers and delivering the best consumer experience to continue dominating the online DVD rental market Netflix pioneered."
 
Float and Trading Plans
 
The Company estimates the public float at approximately 45,059,814 shares as of September 30, 2004, up 1 percent from 44,431,219 shares as of June 30, 2004, based on registered shares held in street name with the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation. No outstanding shares are subject to a lock-up agreement of any kind. From time to time executive officers of Netflix may elect to buy or sell stock in Netflix. All such purchases or sales are made pursuant to the terms of 10b5-1 Trading Plans approved by the Company and generally adopted no less than three months prior to the first date of sale under such plan.
 
Earnings Call
 
The Netflix earnings call will be webcast today at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time / 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, and may be accessed at . Following the conclusion of the webcast, a replay of the call will be available via Netflix's website at . For those without access to the Internet, a replay of the call will be available from approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on October 14, 2004 through October 20, 2004. To listen to a replay, call (719) 457-0820, access code 981146. The Company also plans to include discussion of its business outlook in the conference call.
http://ir.netflix.com
http://ir.netflix.com
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Management believes that Non-GAAP net income is a useful measure of operating performance because it excludes the non-cash impact of stock option accounting. In addition, management believes that free cash flow is a useful measure of liquidity because it excludes the non-operational cash flows from purchases and sales of short-term investments and cash flows from financing activities. Management believes that reference to Gross Margin, GAAP Net Income, excluding the change in amortization policy and reduction in salvage value, as well as SAC for the U.S. business are useful measures because they give insight to investors with respect to the ongoing operations of the Company's primary business and allow for an equivalent comparison to prior results. However, these Non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to net income and net cash provided by operating activities, or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation to the GAAP equivalents of these Non-GAAP measures is contained in tabular form on the attached unaudited financial statements.
 
About Netflix
 
Netflix (Nasdaq: NFLX) is the world's largest online movie rental service, providing more than two million subscribers access to over 25,000 DVD titles. For $17.99 a month (effective November 1, 2004), Netflix subscribers rent as many DVDs as they want, and keep them as long as they want, with three movies out at a time. There are no due dates, no late fees and no shipping fees. DVDs are delivered for free by first-class mail from regional shipping centers located throughout the United States. Netflix can reach more than 85 percent of its subscribers with generally one business-day delivery. The company provides subscribers extensive information about DVD movies, including critic reviews, member reviews, online trailers, ratings, and personalized movie recommendations. For more information, visit www.netflix.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements increases in competition, subscriber growth and our position within the online DVD rental market. The forward-looking statements in this release are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to manage our growth, in particular managing our subscriber acquisition cost as well as the mix between revenue sharing titles and titles not subject to revenue sharing that are delivered to our subscribers; our ability to attract new subscribers and retain existing subscribers; competition; changes in pricing and availability for advertising space; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service, customer spending on DVD players, DVDs and related products; disruption in service on our website or with our computer systems; deterioration of the U.S. economy or conditions specific to online commerce or the filmed entertainment industry; conditions that effect our delivery through the U.S. Postal Service, including increases in first class postage; increases in the costs of acquiring DVDs; and, widespread consumer adoption of different modes of viewing in-home filmed entertainment. A detailed discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2004. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this press release.
 
Netflix, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
(in thousands, except per share data)
 
Netflix, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
(in thousands, except share and per share data)
 
Netflix, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(unaudited)
(in thousands)
 
Netflix, Inc.
Consolidated Other Data
(unaudited)
(in thousands, except percentages and subscriber acquisition cost)
 
Netflix, Inc.
Non-GAAP Reconciliation Schedule
(unaudited)
(in thousands, except percentages and per share amounts)
 


