FILE:NFLX/NFLX-8K-20040715161847.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information provided in this Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically stated so therein.
 
On July 15, 2004, Netflix, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The press release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, discloses certain financial measures, in particular, non-GAAP net income (loss) and free cash flow, that may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Management believes that non-GAAP net income (loss) is a useful measure of operating performance because it excludes the non-cash impact of stock option accounting. In addition, management believes that free cash flow is a useful measure of liquidity because it excludes the non-operational cash flows from purchases and sales of short-term investments and cash flows from financing activities. However, these non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to net income and net cash provided by operating activities, or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP measures included in our press release have been reconciled to the nearest GAAP measures. Management believes that gross margin and subscriber acquisition cost guidance for the U.S. business in the third and fourth quarters are useful measures because they give insight to investors with respect to the ongoing operations of the Company's primary business and allow for an equivalent comparison to prior results. Furthermore, there is no reconciliation to consolidated GAAP measures for gross margin and subscriber acquisition cost as the Company has no finalized line-item detail with respect to its costs for the international expansion.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 Netflix (Nasdaq: NFLX) today reported results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004.
Los Gatos, Calif.  July 15, 2004
 
"A driver of our strong performance this quarter  the tenth consecutive quarter of more than 70 percent year-over-year revenue and subscriber growth  is the fact that Netflix continues to represent the world's best movie rental experience for millions of Americans," said Reed Hastings, founder and CEO. "We are especially pleased that this growth continues at $22 a month, a price increase last quarter that optimizes both growth and profitability."
 
 
Second Quarter 2004 Financial Highlights
 
for the second quarter was a record $120.3 million, up 90 percent compared to $63.2 million for the second quarter of 2003, and up 20 percent compared to $100.4 million for the first quarter of 2004. This represents the tenth consecutive quarter of year over year revenue growth greater than 70 percent.
Revenue
 
. GAAP net income for the second quarter was $2.9 million, or a profit of $0.04 per diluted share, compared to a GAAP net income of $3.3 million, or a profit of $0.05 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2003 and a GAAP net loss of $5.8 million for the first quarter of 2004, or a loss of $0.11 per diluted share. GAAP net income was above the
GAAP Net Income (Loss)
mid-point of management's guidance for the quarter. The increase in income reflects a 10 percentage point decline in marketing expense as a percentage of revenue.
 
Non-GAAP net income was $7.0 million, or a profit of $0.11 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2004 compared to Non-GAAP net income of $5.0 million, or $0.08 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2003 and Non-GAAP net loss was $1.4 million, or a loss of $0.03 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2004. Non-GAAP net income (loss) equals net income (loss) on a GAAP basis before stock-based compensation expense.
Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss).
 
Free cash flow
1
for the second quarter of 2004 was $6.3 million or 5.2 percent of revenue, up 45 percent from $4.3 million in the second quarter of 2003 and down 30 percent from $9.0 million in the first quarter of 2004. This is the Company's eleventh consecutive quarter of positive free cash flow. Cash provided by operating activities for the second quarter of 2004 was $32.0 million, up 35 percent from $23.6 million in the second quarter of 2003 and down 5 percent from $33.8 million for the first quarter of 2004.
 
for the second quarter was 42.0 percent, at the high end of the range of the Company's guidance of 40 to 42 percent and, as expected, down from 43.6 percent in the first quarter of 2004. Gross margin last quarter included a 1.3 percent favorable impact as a result of non-recurring credits during the quarter. Excluding non-recurring credits, gross margin would have been 42.3 percent last quarter. In the second quarter of 2004, gross margin benefited from a monthly slight decline in movie rentals per average paying subscriber to 6.6 discs from 6.7 discs in the prior quarter. The resulting decline in postage and packaging expense was offset by an increase in content costs as a percent of revenue.
Gross margin
 
. Netflix ended the second quarter of 2004 with approximately 2,093,000 total subscribers. During the quarter Netflix acquired 583,000 new trial subscribers, a 78 percent year-over-year increase from the 327,000 new trial subscribers acquired in the second quarter of 2003 and a sequential decline of 23 percent from the 760,000 new trial subscribers acquired in the first quarter of 2004. Despite the seasonal decline in subscriber growth, new trial subscribers grew at double last year's Q2 year over year growth rate. This is the second consecutive quarter in which trial subscriber growth doubled compared with last year's new trial growth rate.
Subscribers
 
Subscriber acquisition cost
2
for the second quarter was $35.12 per new-trial subscriber compared to a cost of $30.45 for the second quarter of 2003 and unchanged from the first quarter of 2004. For the third quarter of 2004, the Company expects subscriber acquisition cost to rise to a range of $37 to $39 per new-trial subscriber due to increased spending on television advertising during the third quarter and decreased on-line spending in response to third-party on-line advertising rate increases during the second quarter.
 
Churn
3
for the second quarter of 2004 was 5.6 percent as compared to 5.6 percent in the second quarter of 2003 and 4.7 percent in the first quarter of 2004. After increasing immediately following the April 15
th
announcement of the June 15
th
price increase, the subscriber cancellation rate recovered and since late May, has returned to the rate and the pattern the Company
 
experienced in the comparable period last year. Churn includes free trial subscribers as well as paying subscribers who elect not to renew their monthly subscription service during the quarter.
 
Business Outlook
 
Guidance for the third quarter is:
 
Consolidated-
 
US Domestic-
 
Guidance for the fourth quarter is:
 
Consolidated-
 
US Domestic-
 
The Company's revised guidance for the full year of 2004 is:
 
Consolidated-
 
GAAP and Non-GAAP net income guidance includes an estimated net loss of approximately $2.0 to $3.0 million in Q3 and $2.0 to $3.0 million in Q4 of 2004 related to our planned international expansion in the UK.
 
Float and Trading Plans
 
The Company estimates the public float at approximately 44,431,219 shares as of June 30, 2004, up 2 percent from 43,521,526 shares as of March 31, 2004, based on registered shares held in street name with the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation. No outstanding shares are subject to a lock-up agreement of any kind. From time to time executive officers of Netflix may elect to buy or sell stock in Netflix. All such purchases or sales are made pursuant to the terms of 10b5-1 Trading Plans approved by the Company and generally adopted no less than three months prior to the first date of sale under such plan.
Earnings Call
 
The Netflix earnings call will be webcast today at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time / 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, and may be accessed at . Following the conclusion of the webcast, a replay of the call will be available via Netflix's website at . For those without access to the Internet, a replay of the call will be available from 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on July 15, 2004 through July 21, 2004. To listen to a replay, call (719) 457-0820, access code 102221. The Company also plans to include discussion of its business outlook in the conference call.
http://ir.netflix.com
http://ir.netflix.com
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Management believes that Non-GAAP net income (loss) is a useful measure of operating performance because it excludes the non-cash impact of stock option accounting. In addition, management believes that free cash flow is a useful measure of liquidity because it excludes the non-operational cash flows from purchases and sales of short-term investments and cash flows from financing activities. However, these Non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to net income (loss) and net cash provided by operating activities, or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation to the GAAP equivalents of these Non-GAAP measures is contained in tabular form on the attached unaudited financial statements. Management believes that gross margin and subscriber acquisition cost guidance for the U.S. business in the third and fourth quarters are useful measures because they give insight to investors with respect to the ongoing operations of the Company's primary business and allow for an equivalent comparison to prior results. Furthermore, there is no reconciliation to consolidated GAAP measures for gross margin and subscriber acquisition cost as the Company has no finalized line-item detail with respect to its costs for the international expansion.
 
About Netflix
 
Netflix (Nasdaq: NFLX) is the world's largest online movie rental service, providing more than two million subscribers access to over 20,000 DVD titles. For $21.99 a month, Netflix subscribers rent as many DVDs as they want, and keep them as long as they want, with three movies out at a time. There are no due dates, no late fees and no shipping fees. DVDs are delivered for free by first-class mail from regional shipping centers located throughout the United States. Netflix can reach more than 80 percent of its subscribers with generally next business day delivery. The Company provides subscribers extensive information about DVD movies, including critic reviews, member reviews, online trailers, ratings, and personalized movie recommendations. For more information, visit .
www.netflix.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements regarding our subscriber growth, revenues, GAAP net income (loss), Non-GAAP net income (loss), gross margin, subscriber acquisition cost and Churn for the remaining quarters and full year of 2004. This press release also contains forward-looking statements regarding our anticipated net loss in connection with international expansion. The forward looking statements in this release are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: long-term negative impacts to Churn, subscriber acquisition or other aspects of our business arising out of our subscription service price increase; our ability to manage our growth, in particular managing our subscriber acquisition cost as well as the mix between revenue sharing titles and titles not subject to revenue
sharing that are delivered to our subscribers; our ability to attract new subscribers and retain existing subscribers; changes in pricing and availability for advertising space; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service, risks associated with our plan to expand into international markets, including unforeseen cost and management distraction, customer spending on DVD players, DVDs and related products; competition; disruption in service on our website or with our computer systems; deterioration of the U.S. economy or conditions specific to online commerce or the filmed entertainment industry; conditions that effect our delivery through the U.S. Postal Service, including increases in first class postage; increases in the costs of acquiring DVDs; and, widespread consumer adoption of different modes of viewing in-home filmed entertainment. A detailed discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2004. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this press release.
Netflix, Inc.
Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
(in thousands, except per share data)
 
Netflix, Inc.
Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
(in thousands, except share and per share data)
 
Netflix, Inc.
Statements of Cash Flows
(unaudited)
(in thousands)
 
Netflix, Inc.
Other Data
(unaudited)
(in thousands, except percentages and subscriber acquisition cost)
 
Netflix, Inc.
Non-GAAP Guidance Reconciliation Schedule
(unaudited)
(in thousands)
 


