FILE:NFLX/NFLX-8K-20091228164434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual Salaries and Equity Compensation for Named Executive Officers
The Board of Directors of the Registrant established the annual salaries and monthly stock option allowances for 2010 for the Registrant's Named Executive Officers as follows:
 
Each Named Executive Officer, like all of Registrant's employees who receive stock options as part of his or her compensation package, may request that a portion of their annual salary be awarded in equity. The number of options to be granted is determined by the following formula: the monthly dollar amount of the stock option allowance / ([Fair Market Value on the date of grant] * 0.20). This formula was modified so that, effective for grants commencing in 2010, the number of options granted each month would be calculated using 20% of the fair market value of the stock on the grant date instead of 25%. Each monthly grant shall be made on the first trading day of the month, shall be fully vested upon grant and shall be exercisable at a strike price equal to the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Registrant's 2002 Stock Plan) on the date of grant. The options will be subject to the terms and conditions of the 2002 Stock Plan and will be administered on a non-discretionary basis without further action by the Registrant's Board of Directors, provided that only the Board may change the amount or terms of future grants. Vested stock options granted on or after January 1, 2007 can be exercised up to ten (10) years following termination of employment. Registrant does not currently provide a program of performance bonuses for its Named Executive Officers.
 
Effective for grants commencing in 2010, the formula for granting options has been modified by the Board of Directors of Registrant so as to continue to mirror that of the Company's employees. The formula is as follows: $10,000 / ([Fair Market Value on the date of grant] * 0.20). This formula was modified so that the number of options granted each month would be calculated using 20% of the fair market value of the stock on the grant date instead of 25%. Except as modified, the equity compensation plan remains the same.
The description of this plan, which is in effect by way of Board resolutions, is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Director Equity Compensation Plan
The Board approved a Director Equity Compensation Plan. The Director Equity Compensation Plan provides for a monthly grant of stock options to each non-employee Director of the Registrant in consideration for services provided to the Registrant and subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Plan (the "Stock Plan"). The number of stock options to be granted monthly shall be determined by the following formula: $10,000 / ([Fair Market Value on the date of grant] * 0.20). Each monthly grant shall be made on the first trading day of the month, shall be fully vested upon grant and shall be exercisable at a strike price equal to the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Stock Plan) on the date of grant. The Registrant's Directors do not currently receive cash compensation for services they provide as Directors or committee members.
This compensation arrangement will be administered on a non-discretionary basis, provided that only the Board may change the amount or terms of future grants. This compensation arrangement will renew each year unless action is taken to the contrary by the Board.


