FILE:NFLX/NFLX-8K-20110915070022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 15, 2011, Netflix, Inc. announced updated guidance for the third quarter of 2011.
The information in this report shall not be treated as "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except as expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
September 15
th
, 2011
Dear Fellow Shareholders,
Two months ago we took a big strategic step by separating streaming and DVD-by-mail into two distinct services, and we now have more visibility into our expected Q3 2011 results. Our financial guidance for the quarter is unchanged, as is our international subscriber guidance. We are, however, lowering our domestic subscriber estimates as reflected in the graphic below.
Despite the guidance revision, we remain convinced that the splitting of our services was the right long-term strategic choice. The strategy behind the split of our services is four-fold:
 
 
 
 
We know our decision to split our services has upset many of our subscribers, which we don't take lightly, but we believe this split will help us make our services better for subscribers and shareholders for years to come.
We look forward to sharing more with you in October.
 
Sincerely,
 
Forward Looking Statements
This letter contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements regarding domestic net addition and subscriber mix, financial performance and international subscriber growth for the third quarter of 2011, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to attract new subscribers and retain existing subscribers; our ability to compete effectively; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service; and, disruption in service on our website or with third-party computer systems that help us operate our service. A detailed discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 18, 2011. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this letter.
 


