Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reference is made throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which begin on page F 1 of this report. Overview of Results of Operations and Liquidity The company develops, manufactures and sells a broad range of products that are sold worldwide. The company expands the product lines and services it offers by developing and commercializing its own technologies and by making strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses. The companys continuing operations fall into two business segments: Analytical Technologies and Laboratory Products and Services. During each of the first quarters of 2009 and 2008, the company transferred management responsibility and related financial reporting and monitoring for a small product line between segments. The company has historically moved a product line between segments when a shift in strategic focus of either the product line or a segment more closely aligns the product line with a segment different than that in which it had previously been reported. Segment information for all periods presented has been reclassified to reflect these transfers. Revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,153.9 41.1% $ 4,468.6 42.6% Laboratory Products and Services 6,426.6 63.6% 6,455.2 61.5% Eliminations (470.8 ) (4.7)% (425.8 ) (4.1)% $ 10,109.7 100% $ 10,498.0 100% Sales in 2009 were $10.11 billion, a decrease of $388 million from 2008. Aside from the effects of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures (discussed in total and by segment below), revenues decreased from 2008 revenues by $342 million (3%) due to lower revenues at existing businesses as a result of decreased demand, offset in part by price increases. Sales of equipment and, to a lesser extent, services were particularly affected as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global market downturn. Sales of consumables grew modestly, however, and were not as significantly affected by the severe economic conditions. The companys strategy is to augment internal growth at existing businesses with complementary acquisitions such as those completed in 2009 and 2008. The principal acquisitions in 2009 were Biolab, an Australia based provider of analytical instruments, life science consumables and laboratory equipment in April 2009 and B.R.A.H.M.S. AG, a leading provider of specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening in October 2009. Biolab broadened the geographic reach of the companys customer channels. BRAHMS increased the breadth of the companys specialty diagnostics portfolio and provided a significant reagent manufacturing center in Europe. In 2009, operating income and operating income margin were $1.05 billion and 10.4%, respectively, compared with $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, in 2008. The decrease in operating income was due to lower profitability at existing businesses resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. In addition, restructuring and other costs increased $32 million in 2009 due primarily to a pension plan curtailment gain in the 2008 period and, to a lesser extent, increased cost reduction measures in 2009 due to the economic downturn. Financial Statement Index 33 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of Results of Operations and Liquidity (continued) The companys effective tax rates were 8.2% and 13.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reduced earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of newly enacted tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2010 will be between 17% and 19% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Income from continuing operations decreased to $851 million in 2009, from $975 million in 2008, primarily due to the items discussed above that decreased operating income, offset in part by a lower tax rate. During 2009, the companys cash flow from operations totaled $1.66 billion, compared with $1.42 billion for 2008. The increase resulted primarily from decreased investment in working capital items, particularly accounts receivable and inventories. As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations is based upon its financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an on going basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to equity investments, bad debts, sales returns, inventories, business combinations, intangible assets and goodwill, warranty obligations, income taxes, pension costs, contingencies and litigation, stock based compensation, restructuring and sale of businesses. Management believes the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the consolidated financial statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Management bases its estimates on historical experience, current market and economic conditions and other assumptions that management believes are reasonable. The results of these estimates form the basis for judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities where the values are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Financial Statement Index 34 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) The company believes the following represent its critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of its financial statements: (a) Accounts Receivable The company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to pay amounts due. Such allowances totaled $47 million at December 31, 2009. The company estimates the amount of customer receivables that are uncollectible based on the age of the receivable, the creditworthiness of the customer and any other information that is relevant to the judgment. If the financial condition of the companys customers were to deteriorate, reducing their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required. (b) Inventories The company writes down its inventories for estimated excess quantities and obsolescence based on differences between the cost and estimated net realizable value taking into consideration usage in the preceding 12 months, expected demand and any other information that is relevant to the judgment. If ultimate usage or demand varies significantly from expected usage or demand, additional writedowns may be required. (c) Intangible Assets and Goodwill The company uses assumptions and estimates in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of the companys acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets that require the use of significant judgment in determining (i) fair value; and (ii) whether such intangibles are amortizable or non amortizable and, if the former, the period and the method by which the intangible asset will be amortized. The company estimates the fair value of acquisition related intangible assets principally based on projections of cash flows that will arise from identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses. The projected cash flows are discounted to determine the present value of the assets at the dates of acquisition. Amortizable intangible assets totaled $5.01 billion at December 31, 2009. The company reviews definite lived intangible assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Actual cash flows arising from a particular intangible asset could vary from projected cash flows which could imply different carrying values from those established at the dates of acquisition and which could result in impairment of such asset. The company evaluates goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually and when events occur or circumstances change that may reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying amount. Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets totaled $8.98 billion and $1.33 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth, asset related expenditures, working capital levels and other factors. Different assumptions from those made in the companys analysis could materially affect projected cash flows and the companys evaluation of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. Financial Statement Index 35 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) The companys businesses were adversely affected in 2009 by the global economic downturn, although results progressively improved during the year. Projections of profitability for 2010 and thereafter and indicated fair values based on peer revenues and earnings trading multiples were sufficient to conclude that no impairment of goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets existed at December 31, 2009. There can be no assurance, however, that indicators of economic recovery will continue into 2010 and that a prolonged downturn will not materially adversely affect peer trading multiples and the companys businesses such that they do not achieve their forecasted profitability and these assets become impaired. Should the fair value of the companys goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets decline because of reduced operating performance, market declines, or other indicators of impairment, or as a result of changes in the discount rate, charges for impairment may be necessary. (d) Other Long lived Assets The company reviews other long lived assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Other long lived assets totaled $1.77 billion at December 31, 2009, including $1.33 billion of fixed assets. In testing a long lived asset for impairment, assumptions are made concerning projected cash flows associated with the asset. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth and asset related expenditures associated with the asset being reviewed for impairment. Should future cash flows decline significantly from estimated amounts, charges for impairment of other long lived assets may be necessary. (e) Revenues In instances where the company sells equipment with a related installation obligation, the company generally recognizes revenue related to the equipment when title passes. The company recognizes revenue related to the installation when it performs the installation. The allocation of revenue between the equipment and the installation is based on relative fair value at the time of sale. Should the fair value of either the equipment or the installation change, the companys revenue recognition would be affected. If fair value is not available for any undelivered element, revenue for all elements is deferred until delivery of all elements is completed. In instances where the company sells equipment with customer specified acceptance criteria, the company must assess whether it can demonstrate adherence to the acceptance criteria prior to the customers acceptance testing to determine the timing of revenue recognition. If the nature of customer specified acceptance criteria were to change or grow in complexity such that the company could not demonstrate adherence, the company would be required to defer additional revenues upon shipment of its products until completion of customer acceptance testing. The companys software license agreements generally include multiple products and services, or elements. The company recognizes software license revenue based on the residual method after all elements have either been delivered or vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value exists for any undelivered elements. In the event VSOE is not available for any undelivered element, revenue for all elements is deferred until delivery of all elements is completed. Revenues from software maintenance and support contracts are recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. VSOE of fair value of software maintenance and support is determined based on the price charged for the maintenance and support when sold separately. Revenues from training and consulting services are recognized as services are performed, based on VSOE, which is determined by reference to the price customers pay when the services are sold separately. The company records reductions to revenue for estimated product returns by customers. Should a greater or lesser number of products be returned, additional adjustments to revenue may be required. Financial Statement Index 36 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (f) Warranty Obligations At the time the company recognizes revenue, it provides for the estimated cost of product warranties in cost of product revenues based primarily on historical experience and knowledge of any specific warranty problems that indicate projected warranty costs may vary from historical patterns. The liability for warranty obligations of the companys continuing operations totaled $45 million at December 31, 2009. Should product failure rates or the actual cost of correcting product failures vary from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be necessary. (g) Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying the companys income tax positions. The company assesses income tax positions and records tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon managements evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, the company has recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. Where applicable, associated interest expense has also been recognized. The company operates in numerous countries under many legal forms and, as a result, is subject to the jurisdiction of numerous domestic and non U.S. tax authorities, as well as to tax agreements and treaties among these governments. Determination of taxable income in any jurisdiction requires the interpretation of the related tax laws and regulations and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events, such as the amount, timing and character of deductions, permissible revenue recognition methods under the tax law and the sources and character of income and tax credits. Changes in tax laws, regulations, agreements and treaties, currency exchange restrictions or the companys level of operations or profitability in each taxing jurisdiction could have an impact upon the amount of current and deferred tax balances and hence the companys net income. The company estimates the degree to which tax assets and loss carryforwards will result in a benefit based on expected profitability by tax jurisdiction, and provides a valuation allowance for tax assets and loss carryforwards that it believes will more likely than not go unused. If it becomes more likely than not that a tax asset or loss carryforward will be used, the company reverses the related valuation allowance. Any such reversals are recorded as a reduction of the companys tax provision. The companys tax valuation allowance totaled $164.8 million at December 31, 2009. Should the companys actual future taxable income by tax jurisdiction vary from estimates, additional allowances or reversals thereof may be necessary. The company provides a liability for future income tax payments in the worldwide tax jurisdictions in which it operates. Accrued income taxes totaled $28 million at December 31, 2009. Should tax return positions that the company expects are sustainable not be sustained upon audit, the company could be required to record an incremental tax provision for such taxes. Should previously unrecognized tax benefits ultimately be sustained, a reduction in the companys tax provision would result. Financial Statement Index 37 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (h) Contingencies and Litigation The company records accruals for various contingencies, including legal proceedings, environmental, workers compensation, product, general and auto liabilities, and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. The accruals are based on managements judgment, historical claims experience, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and or external legal counsel and actuarial estimates. Reserves of acquired businesses, including environmental reserves, were initially recorded at fair value and discounted to their net present value. Additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. (i) Pension and Other Retiree Benefits Several of the companys U.S. and non U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension and other retiree benefit plans. The cost and obligations of these arrangements are calculated using many assumptions to estimate the benefits that the employee earns while working, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments cease. Major assumptions used in the accounting for these employee benefit plans include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of increase in employee compensation levels. Assumptions are determined based on company data and appropriate market indicators in consultation with third party actuaries, and are evaluated each year as of the plans measurement date. Net periodic pension costs for the companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans totaled $16 million in 2009. The companys unfunded benefit obligation totaled $225 million at year end 2009 compared with $303 million at year end 2008. Should any of these assumptions change, they would have an effect on net periodic pension costs and the unfunded benefit obligation. For example, a 10% decrease in the discount rate would result in an annual increase in pension and other postretirement benefit expense of approximately $2 million and an increase in the benefit obligation of approximately $85 million. The company expects to contribute between $20 and $30 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2010. (j) Stock based Compensation The fair value of most stock options granted by the company is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model. For option grants and restricted stock units that require achievement of both service and market conditions, a lattice model is used to estimate fair value. Use of a valuation model requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs. Management estimates expected volatility based on the historical volatility of the companys stock. The expected lives of option grants through 2007 were estimated using the simplified method for plain vanilla options. Thereafter, historical data on exercise patterns became the basis for determining the expected life of an option. The risk free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with a remaining term which approximates the expected life assumed at the date of grant. Changes in these input variables would affect the amount of expense associated with stock based compensation. The compensation expense recognized for all stock based awards is net of estimated forfeitures. The company estimates forfeiture rates based on historical analysis of option forfeitures. If actual forfeitures should vary from estimated forfeitures, adjustments to compensation expense may be required. Financial Statement Index 38 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (k) Restructuring Costs The company records restructuring charges for the cost of vacating facilities based on future lease obligations net of expected sub rental income. The companys accrued restructuring costs for abandoned facilities totaled $7 million at December 31, 2009. Should actual cash flows associated with sub rental income from vacated facilities vary from estimated amounts, adjustments may be required. (l) Assets Held for Sale The company estimates the expected proceeds from any assets held for sale and, when necessary, records losses to reduce the carrying value of these assets to estimated realizable value. Should the actual or estimated proceeds, which would include post closing purchase price adjustments, vary from current estimates, results could differ from expected amounts. Results of Operations 2009 Compared With 2008 Continuing Operations Sales in 2009 were $10.11 billion, a decrease of $388 million from 2008. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $211 million in 2009. Sales increased $165 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effects of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $342 million (3%) primarily a result of decreased demand which the company believes was due to economic uncertainty offset in part by price increases, as described by segment below. Sales of equipment and, to a lesser extent, services were particularly affected as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global market downturn. Sales of consumables grew modestly, however, and were not as significantly affected by the severe economic conditions. Sales were down in North America and Europe but grew modestly in Asia. In the latter part of 2009, the dollar weakened against other major currencies in which the company sells products and services. Weakening of the dollar had a favorable effect on revenues of the company of approximately 3% in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared with the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2009, operating income and operating income margin were $1.05 billion and 10.4%, respectively, compared with $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, in 2008. The decrease in operating income was due to lower profitability at existing businesses resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. In addition, restructuring and other costs increased $32 million in 2009 due primarily to a pension plan curtailment gain in the 2008 period and, to a lesser extent, increased cost reduction measures in 2009 due to the economic downturn. In 2009, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $69 million, including $7 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations and $2 million of charges to selling, general and administrative expenses for transaction costs related to the acquisitions of Biolab and B.R.A.H.M.S. on April 30, and October 1, 2009, respectively, offset in part by a gain primarily for settlement of certain pre merger Fisher product liability related matters. The company incurred $62 million of cash costs, primarily for actions in response to the downturn in the economy and reduced revenues, including severance to reduce headcount at several businesses and abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also incurred a $2 million loss on an abandoned facility held for sale that was sold in July 2009 and a $3 million charge Financial Statement Index 39 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) for pension termination benefits, offset by a $7 million gain on the settlement of a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher in 2006 (Note 14). In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. As of February 26, 2010, the company has identified restructuring actions that will result in additional charges of approximately $38 million in 2010 and expects to identify additional actions during 2010. The restructuring actions initiated in 2009 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $107 million, including $59 million for actions taken through the end of 2009 and $48 million for actions that have been approved and will be completed in 2010. Of the $107 million of total savings, $63 million is in the Analytical Technologies segment and $44 million is in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The restructuring actions initiated in 2008 resulted in annual cost savings beginning in the second half of 2008 and early 2009 of approximately $34 million, including $26 million in the Analytical Technologies segment and $8 million in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The companys revenues and profitability decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 although results progressively improved during 2009. The company believes the decreases were primarily due to the global economic downturn. There can be no assurance that indicators of economic recovery will continue into 2010 and that a prolonged downturn will not affect the companys projections of profitability for 2010 and future years. If actual results decrease materially from projected results, impairment of goodwill and acquisition related intangible assets could occur. These assets totaled $8.98 billion and $6.34 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Segment Results The companys management evaluates segment operating performance using operating income before certain charges/credits to cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses, principally associated with acquisition accounting; restructuring and other costs/income including costs arising from facility consolidations such as severance and abandoned lease expense and gains and losses from the sale of real estate and product lines; and amortization of acquisition related intangible assets. The company uses these measures because it helps management understand and evaluate the segments core operating results and facilitate comparison of performance for determining compensation (Note 3). Accordingly, the following segment data is reported on this basis. Financial Statement Index 40 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Laboratory Products and Services 6,426.6 6,455.2 0% Eliminations (470.8 ) (425.8 ) 11% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,109.7 $ 10,498.0 (4)% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 837.3 $ 955.3 (12)% Laboratory Products and Services 877.6 913.8 (4)% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,714.9 1,869.1 (8)% Cost of Revenues Charges (6.7 ) (1.5 ) Selling, General and Administrative Charges, Net (1.5 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (60.8 ) (35.4 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (597.0 ) (602.8 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,048.9 $ 1,229.4 (15)% Income from the companys reportable segments decreased 8% to $1.71 billion in 2009 due primarily to lower profitability at existing businesses, resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The company also refers to this measure as adjusted operating income. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Operating Income Margin 20.2% 21.4% (1.2) Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment decreased $315 million to $4.15 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenue of $92 million in 2009. Sales increased $44 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $267 million (6%) primarily due to lower demand offset in part by increased prices. Demand in industrial markets for environmental and process control instruments was particularly weak, which the company believes was due to the global economic downturn. The decrease in sales of these products was offset in part by higher demand for bioscience offerings and diagnostic products, including flu tests. Operating income margin was 20.2% in 2009 and 21.4% in 2008. The decrease resulted from lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Financial Statement Index 41 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 6,426.6 $ 6,455.2 0% Operating Income Margin 13.7% 14.2% (0.5) Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment decreased $29 million to $6.43 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $128 million in 2009. Sales increased $121 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $22 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of products purchased from a supplier discussed below, offset in part by increased prices. Demand for laboratory equipment was weak as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global economic downturn, however, this was more than offset by higher demand for products purchased through the companys research market and healthcare market channels. In July 2008, the company and a significant supplier of its healthcare market channel extended an existing agreement for two years through 2010. Under the revised agreement, the companys revenues from the sale of products purchased from the supplier decreased $61 million in 2009 to $205 million. In November 2009, the supplier notified the company that it intended to cease the current arrangement. The company believes this was in part a response to the companys strategic decision to expand its product offerings to provide its customers with a broader menu of diagnostic solutions. As a result of the supplier terminating this agreement, the company expects sales of related products to be approximately $75 million in 2010 and none thereafter. The company has signed an agreement with an alternative supplier of laboratory products and expects to sell approximately $40 million of these and other products from the new supplier in 2010, offsetting a portion of the anticipated drop in revenue. Operating income margin decreased to 13.7% in 2009 from 14.2% in 2008, primarily due to lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $122 million and $101 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively (Note 4). Interest income decreased to $16 million in 2009 from $52 million in 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates on invested cash balances. Interest expense decreased to $118 million from $152 million in 2008 primarily as a result of a reduction in average debt and lower interest rates on variable rate debt. In 2009, other expense, net, includes a $15 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt (Note 9). Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rates were 8.2% and 13.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reduced earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of newly enacted tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2010 will be between 17% and 19% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Financial Statement Index 42 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Contingent Liabilities At the end of 2009, the company was contingently liable with respect to certain legal proceedings and related matters. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the matters described under Litigation and Related Contingencies in Note 10 could materially affect the companys financial position as well as its results of operations and cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued a pronouncement concerning fair value measurement accounting. This guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The rule applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for the companys monetary assets and liabilities in the first quarter of 2008 and for non financial assets and liabilities beginning January 1, 2009. There was no material effect from adoption. In December 2007, the FASB revised the accounting rules concerning business combinations. This revised guidance does the following: requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose certain information to enable users to understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The rules require that cash outflows such as transaction costs and post acquisition restructuring be charged to expense instead of capitalized as a cost of the acquisition. Contingent purchase price is recorded at its initial fair value and then re measured periodically through adjustments to net income. The revised guidance was effective for the company, on a prospective basis, beginning January 1, 2009. There was no impact upon adoption; however, the rule changes may materially affect the accounting for any future business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued new rules on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The noncontrolling interest guidance changed the accounting for minority interests, which are reclassified as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In March 2008, the FASB issued a pronouncement pertaining to disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance requires disclosures of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The rule was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no material effect from adoption. In May 2008, the FASB issued new rules on the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement of such debt instruments. The rules require the issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The new guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rules required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. The companys cash payments for interest have not been affected, but adoption increased the companys reported interest expense for all periods presented in a manner that reflects interest rates of similar non convertible debt. Interest expense in 2008 and 2007, as adjusted for adoption of this rule, increased $22 million and $21 million, respectively, over the previously reported amounts. Financial Statement Index 43 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities. This guidance clarifies that share based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. The guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rule required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. Adoption had a nominal effect on the numerator and, for diluted presentation, the denominator in the calculation of earnings per share for all periods presented. In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires additional disclosures about an employers plan assets of defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. This rule expands current disclosures of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets to include information regarding the fair value measurements of plan assets. The guidance was effective for the company beginning in January 2009 and the additional disclosures have been made. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This guidance amends the prior other than temporary impairment guidance for certain debt securities and will require the investor to assess the likelihood of selling the debt security prior to recovery of its cost basis. If an investor is able to meet the criteria to assert that it does not intend to sell the debt security and more likely than not will not be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, impairment charges related to credit losses would be recognized in earnings whereas impairment charges related to non credit losses would be reflected in other comprehensive income. The company elected early adoption of this rule in the first quarter of 2009. Adoption did not materially affect the companys financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on providing interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This new guidance requires the fair value disclosures that were previously disclosed only annually to be disclosed now on an interim basis. This guidance was effective for the company in the second quarter of 2009, and the additional disclosures have been made. In May 2009, the FASB issued a pronouncement on subsequent event accounting that establishes the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. The pronouncement was effective for the companys second quarter 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification, is the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of the Codification had no impact on the companys financial position or results of operations. In September 2009, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued new rules pertaining to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple customer deliverables and for software enabled products. The new rule pertaining to arrangements under which the company has multiple customer deliverables provides an alternative method for establishing the fair value of a deliverable when vendor specific objective evidence does not exist. The guidance requires the determination of the best estimate of selling price to separate deliverables and allows the allocation of the customers consideration using this relative Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of Results of Operations and Liquidity (continued) The companys effective tax rates were 8.2% and 13.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reduced earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of newly enacted tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2010 will be between 17% and 19% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Income from continuing operations decreased to $851 million in 2009, from $975 million in 2008, primarily due to the items discussed above that decreased operating income, offset in part by a lower tax rate. During 2009, the companys cash flow from operations totaled $1.66 billion, compared with $1.42 billion for 2008. The increase resulted primarily from decreased investment in working capital items, particularly accounts receivable and inventories. As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations is based upon its financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an on going basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to equity investments, bad debts, sales returns, inventories, business combinations, intangible assets and goodwill, warranty obligations, income taxes, pension costs, contingencies and litigation, stock based compensation, restructuring and sale of businesses. Management believes the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the consolidated financial statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Management bases its estimates on historical experience, current market and economic conditions and other assumptions that management believes are reasonable. The results of these estimates form the basis for judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities where the values are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Financial Statement Index 34 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) The company believes the following represent its critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of its financial statements: (a) Accounts Receivable The company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to pay amounts due. Such allowances totaled $47 million at December 31, 2009. The company estimates the amount of customer receivables that are uncollectible based on the age of the receivable, the creditworthiness of the customer and any other information that is relevant to the judgment. If the financial condition of the companys customers were to deteriorate, reducing their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required. (b) Inventories The company writes down its inventories for estimated excess quantities and obsolescence based on differences between the cost and estimated net realizable value taking into consideration usage in the preceding 12 months, expected demand and any other information that is relevant to the judgment. If ultimate usage or demand varies significantly from expected usage or demand, additional writedowns may be required. (c) Intangible Assets and Goodwill The company uses assumptions and estimates in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of the companys acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets that require the use of significant judgment in determining (i) fair value; and (ii) whether such intangibles are amortizable or non amortizable and, if the former, the period and the method by which the intangible asset will be amortized. The company estimates the fair value of acquisition related intangible assets principally based on projections of cash flows that will arise from identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses. The projected cash flows are discounted to determine the present value of the assets at the dates of acquisition. Amortizable intangible assets totaled $5.01 billion at December 31, 2009. The company reviews definite lived intangible assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Actual cash flows arising from a particular intangible asset could vary from projected cash flows which could imply different carrying values from those established at the dates of acquisition and which could result in impairment of such asset. The company evaluates goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually and when events occur or circumstances change that may reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying amount. Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets totaled $8.98 billion and $1.33 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth, asset related expenditures, working capital levels and other factors. Different assumptions from those made in the companys analysis could materially affect projected cash flows and the companys evaluation of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. Financial Statement Index 35 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) The companys businesses were adversely affected in 2009 by the global economic downturn, although results progressively improved during the year. Projections of profitability for 2010 and thereafter and indicated fair values based on peer revenues and earnings trading multiples were sufficient to conclude that no impairment of goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets existed at December 31, 2009. There can be no assurance, however, that indicators of economic recovery will continue into 2010 and that a prolonged downturn will not materially adversely affect peer trading multiples and the companys businesses such that they do not achieve their forecasted profitability and these assets become impaired. Should the fair value of the companys goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets decline because of reduced operating performance, market declines, or other indicators of impairment, or as a result of changes in the discount rate, charges for impairment may be necessary. (d) Other Long lived Assets The company reviews other long lived assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Other long lived assets totaled $1.77 billion at December 31, 2009, including $1.33 billion of fixed assets. In testing a long lived asset for impairment, assumptions are made concerning projected cash flows associated with the asset. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth and asset related expenditures associated with the asset being reviewed for impairment. Should future cash flows decline significantly from estimated amounts, charges for impairment of other long lived assets may be necessary. (e) Revenues In instances where the company sells equipment with a related installation obligation, the company generally recognizes revenue related to the equipment when title passes. The company recognizes revenue related to the installation when it performs the installation. The allocation of revenue between the equipment and the installation is based on relative fair value at the time of sale. Should the fair value of either the equipment or the installation change, the companys revenue recognition would be affected. If fair value is not available for any undelivered element, revenue for all elements is deferred until delivery of all elements is completed. In instances where the company sells equipment with customer specified acceptance criteria, the company must assess whether it can demonstrate adherence to the acceptance criteria prior to the customers acceptance testing to determine the timing of revenue recognition. If the nature of customer specified acceptance criteria were to change or grow in complexity such that the company could not demonstrate adherence, the company would be required to defer additional revenues upon shipment of its products until completion of customer acceptance testing. The companys software license agreements generally include multiple products and services, or elements. The company recognizes software license revenue based on the residual method after all elements have either been delivered or vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value exists for any undelivered elements. In the event VSOE is not available for any undelivered element, revenue for all elements is deferred until delivery of all elements is completed. Revenues from software maintenance and support contracts are recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. VSOE of fair value of software maintenance and support is determined based on the price charged for the maintenance and support when sold separately. Revenues from training and consulting services are recognized as services are performed, based on VSOE, which is determined by reference to the price customers pay when the services are sold separately. The company records reductions to revenue for estimated product returns by customers. Should a greater or lesser number of products be returned, additional adjustments to revenue may be required. Financial Statement Index 36 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (f) Warranty Obligations At the time the company recognizes revenue, it provides for the estimated cost of product warranties in cost of product revenues based primarily on historical experience and knowledge of any specific warranty problems that indicate projected warranty costs may vary from historical patterns. The liability for warranty obligations of the companys continuing operations totaled $45 million at December 31, 2009. Should product failure rates or the actual cost of correcting product failures vary from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be necessary. (g) Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying the companys income tax positions. The company assesses income tax positions and records tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon managements evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, the company has recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. Where applicable, associated interest expense has also been recognized. The company operates in numerous countries under many legal forms and, as a result, is subject to the jurisdiction of numerous domestic and non U.S. tax authorities, as well as to tax agreements and treaties among these governments. Determination of taxable income in any jurisdiction requires the interpretation of the related tax laws and regulations and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events, such as the amount, timing and character of deductions, permissible revenue recognition methods under the tax law and the sources and character of income and tax credits. Changes in tax laws, regulations, agreements and treaties, currency exchange restrictions or the companys level of operations or profitability in each taxing jurisdiction could have an impact upon the amount of current and deferred tax balances and hence the companys net income. The company estimates the degree to which tax assets and loss carryforwards will result in a benefit based on expected profitability by tax jurisdiction, and provides a valuation allowance for tax assets and loss carryforwards that it believes will more likely than not go unused. If it becomes more likely than not that a tax asset or loss carryforward will be used, the company reverses the related valuation allowance. Any such reversals are recorded as a reduction of the companys tax provision. The companys tax valuation allowance totaled $164.8 million at December 31, 2009. Should the companys actual future taxable income by tax jurisdiction vary from estimates, additional allowances or reversals thereof may be necessary. The company provides a liability for future income tax payments in the worldwide tax jurisdictions in which it operates. Accrued income taxes totaled $28 million at December 31, 2009. Should tax return positions that the company expects are sustainable not be sustained upon audit, the company could be required to record an incremental tax provision for such taxes. Should previously unrecognized tax benefits ultimately be sustained, a reduction in the companys tax provision would result. Financial Statement Index 37 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (h) Contingencies and Litigation The company records accruals for various contingencies, including legal proceedings, environmental, workers compensation, product, general and auto liabilities, and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. The accruals are based on managements judgment, historical claims experience, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and or external legal counsel and actuarial estimates. Reserves of acquired businesses, including environmental reserves, were initially recorded at fair value and discounted to their net present value. Additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. (i) Pension and Other Retiree Benefits Several of the companys U.S. and non U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension and other retiree benefit plans. The cost and obligations of these arrangements are calculated using many assumptions to estimate the benefits that the employee earns while working, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments cease. Major assumptions used in the accounting for these employee benefit plans include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of increase in employee compensation levels. Assumptions are determined based on company data and appropriate market indicators in consultation with third party actuaries, and are evaluated each year as of the plans measurement date. Net periodic pension costs for the companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans totaled $16 million in 2009. The companys unfunded benefit obligation totaled $225 million at year end 2009 compared with $303 million at year end 2008. Should any of these assumptions change, they would have an effect on net periodic pension costs and the unfunded benefit obligation. For example, a 10% decrease in the discount rate would result in an annual increase in pension and other postretirement benefit expense of approximately $2 million and an increase in the benefit obligation of approximately $85 million. The company expects to contribute between $20 and $30 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2010. (j) Stock based Compensation The fair value of most stock options granted by the company is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model. For option grants and restricted stock units that require achievement of both service and market conditions, a lattice model is used to estimate fair value. Use of a valuation model requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs. Management estimates expected volatility based on the historical volatility of the companys stock. The expected lives of option grants through 2007 were estimated using the simplified method for plain vanilla options. Thereafter, historical data on exercise patterns became the basis for determining the expected life of an option. The risk free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with a remaining term which approximates the expected life assumed at the date of grant. Changes in these input variables would affect the amount of expense associated with stock based compensation. The compensation expense recognized for all stock based awards is net of estimated forfeitures. The company estimates forfeiture rates based on historical analysis of option forfeitures. If actual forfeitures should vary from estimated forfeitures, adjustments to compensation expense may be required. Financial Statement Index 38 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (k) Restructuring Costs The company records restructuring charges for the cost of vacating facilities based on future lease obligations net of expected sub rental income. The companys accrued restructuring costs for abandoned facilities totaled $7 million at December 31, 2009. Should actual cash flows associated with sub rental income from vacated facilities vary from estimated amounts, adjustments may be required. (l) Assets Held for Sale The company estimates the expected proceeds from any assets held for sale and, when necessary, records losses to reduce the carrying value of these assets to estimated realizable value. Should the actual or estimated proceeds, which would include post closing purchase price adjustments, vary from current estimates, results could differ from expected amounts. Results of Operations 2009 Compared With 2008 Continuing Operations Sales in 2009 were $10.11 billion, a decrease of $388 million from 2008. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $211 million in 2009. Sales increased $165 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effects of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $342 million (3%) primarily a result of decreased demand which the company believes was due to economic uncertainty offset in part by price increases, as described by segment below. Sales of equipment and, to a lesser extent, services were particularly affected as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global market downturn. Sales of consumables grew modestly, however, and were not as significantly affected by the severe economic conditions. Sales were down in North America and Europe but grew modestly in Asia. In the latter part of 2009, the dollar weakened against other major currencies in which the company sells products and services. Weakening of the dollar had a favorable effect on revenues of the company of approximately 3% in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared with the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2009, operating income and operating income margin were $1.05 billion and 10.4%, respectively, compared with $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, in 2008. The decrease in operating income was due to lower profitability at existing businesses resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. In addition, restructuring and other costs increased $32 million in 2009 due primarily to a pension plan curtailment gain in the 2008 period and, to a lesser extent, increased cost reduction measures in 2009 due to the economic downturn. In 2009, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $69 million, including $7 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations and $2 million of charges to selling, general and administrative expenses for transaction costs related to the acquisitions of Biolab and B.R.A.H.M.S. on April 30, and October 1, 2009, respectively, offset in part by a gain primarily for settlement of certain pre merger Fisher product liability related matters. The company incurred $62 million of cash costs, primarily for actions in response to the downturn in the economy and reduced revenues, including severance to reduce headcount at several businesses and abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also incurred a $2 million loss on an abandoned facility held for sale that was sold in July 2009 and a $3 million charge Financial Statement Index 39 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) for pension termination benefits, offset by a $7 million gain on the settlement of a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher in 2006 (Note 14). In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. As of February 26, 2010, the company has identified restructuring actions that will result in additional charges of approximately $38 million in 2010 and expects to identify additional actions during 2010. The restructuring actions initiated in 2009 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $107 million, including $59 million for actions taken through the end of 2009 and $48 million for actions that have been approved and will be completed in 2010. Of the $107 million of total savings, $63 million is in the Analytical Technologies segment and $44 million is in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The restructuring actions initiated in 2008 resulted in annual cost savings beginning in the second half of 2008 and early 2009 of approximately $34 million, including $26 million in the Analytical Technologies segment and $8 million in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The companys revenues and profitability decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 although results progressively improved during 2009. The company believes the decreases were primarily due to the global economic downturn. There can be no assurance that indicators of economic recovery will continue into 2010 and that a prolonged downturn will not affect the companys projections of profitability for 2010 and future years. If actual results decrease materially from projected results, impairment of goodwill and acquisition related intangible assets could occur. These assets totaled $8.98 billion and $6.34 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Segment Results The companys management evaluates segment operating performance using operating income before certain charges/credits to cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses, principally associated with acquisition accounting; restructuring and other costs/income including costs arising from facility consolidations such as severance and abandoned lease expense and gains and losses from the sale of real estate and product lines; and amortization of acquisition related intangible assets. The company uses these measures because it helps management understand and evaluate the segments core operating results and facilitate comparison of performance for determining compensation (Note 3). Accordingly, the following segment data is reported on this basis. Financial Statement Index 40 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Laboratory Products and Services 6,426.6 6,455.2 0% Eliminations (470.8 ) (425.8 ) 11% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,109.7 $ 10,498.0 (4)% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 837.3 $ 955.3 (12)% Laboratory Products and Services 877.6 913.8 (4)% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,714.9 1,869.1 (8)% Cost of Revenues Charges (6.7 ) (1.5 ) Selling, General and Administrative Charges, Net (1.5 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (60.8 ) (35.4 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (597.0 ) (602.8 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,048.9 $ 1,229.4 (15)% Income from the companys reportable segments decreased 8% to $1.71 billion in 2009 due primarily to lower profitability at existing businesses, resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The company also refers to this measure as adjusted operating income. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Operating Income Margin 20.2% 21.4% (1.2) Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment decreased $315 million to $4.15 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenue of $92 million in 2009. Sales increased $44 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $267 million (6%) primarily due to lower demand offset in part by increased prices. Demand in industrial markets for environmental and process control instruments was particularly weak, which the company believes was due to the global economic downturn. The decrease in sales of these products was offset in part by higher demand for bioscience offerings and diagnostic products, including flu tests. Operating income margin was 20.2% in 2009 and 21.4% in 2008. The decrease resulted from lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Financial Statement Index 41 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 6,426.6 $ 6,455.2 0% Operating Income Margin 13.7% 14.2% (0.5) Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment decreased $29 million to $6.43 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $128 million in 2009. Sales increased $121 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $22 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of products purchased from a supplier discussed below, offset in part by increased prices. Demand for laboratory equipment was weak as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global economic downturn, however, this was more than offset by higher demand for products purchased through the companys research market and healthcare market channels. In July 2008, the company and a significant supplier of its healthcare market channel extended an existing agreement for two years through 2010. Under the revised agreement, the companys revenues from the sale of products purchased from the supplier decreased $61 million in 2009 to $205 million. In November 2009, the supplier notified the company that it intended to cease the current arrangement. The company believes this was in part a response to the companys strategic decision to expand its product offerings to provide its customers with a broader menu of diagnostic solutions. As a result of the supplier terminating this agreement, the company expects sales of related products to be approximately $75 million in 2010 and none thereafter. The company has signed an agreement with an alternative supplier of laboratory products and expects to sell approximately $40 million of these and other products from the new supplier in 2010, offsetting a portion of the anticipated drop in revenue. Operating income margin decreased to 13.7% in 2009 from 14.2% in 2008, primarily due to lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $122 million and $101 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively (Note 4). Interest income decreased to $16 million in 2009 from $52 million in 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates on invested cash balances. Interest expense decreased to $118 million from $152 million in 2008 primarily as a result of a reduction in average debt and lower interest rates on variable rate debt. In 2009, other expense, net, includes a $15 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt (Note 9). Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rates were 8.2% and 13.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reduced earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of newly enacted tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2010 will be between 17% and 19% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Financial Statement Index 42 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Contingent Liabilities At the end of 2009, the company was contingently liable with respect to certain legal proceedings and related matters. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the matters described under Litigation and Related Contingencies in Note 10 could materially affect the companys financial position as well as its results of operations and cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued a pronouncement concerning fair value measurement accounting. This guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The rule applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for the companys monetary assets and liabilities in the first quarter of 2008 and for non financial assets and liabilities beginning January 1, 2009. There was no material effect from adoption. In December 2007, the FASB revised the accounting rules concerning business combinations. This revised guidance does the following: requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose certain information to enable users to understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The rules require that cash outflows such as transaction costs and post acquisition restructuring be charged to expense instead of capitalized as a cost of the acquisition. Contingent purchase price is recorded at its initial fair value and then re measured periodically through adjustments to net income. The revised guidance was effective for the company, on a prospective basis, beginning January 1, 2009. There was no impact upon adoption; however, the rule changes may materially affect the accounting for any future business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued new rules on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The noncontrolling interest guidance changed the accounting for minority interests, which are reclassified as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In March 2008, the FASB issued a pronouncement pertaining to disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance requires disclosures of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The rule was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no material effect from adoption. In May 2008, the FASB issued new rules on the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement of such debt instruments. The rules require the issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The new guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rules required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. The companys cash payments for interest have not been affected, but adoption increased the companys reported interest expense for all periods presented in a manner that reflects interest rates of similar non convertible debt. Interest expense in 2008 and 2007, as adjusted for adoption of this rule, increased $22 million and $21 million, respectively, over the previously reported amounts. Financial Statement Index 43 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities. This guidance clarifies that share based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. The guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rule required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. Adoption had a nominal effect on the numerator and, for diluted presentation, the denominator in the calculation of earnings per share for all periods presented. In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires additional disclosures about an employers plan assets of defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. This rule expands current disclosures of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets to include information regarding the fair value measurements of plan assets. The guidance was effective for the company beginning in January 2009 and the additional disclosures have been made. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This guidance amends the prior other than temporary impairment guidance for certain debt securities and will require the investor to assess the likelihood of selling the debt security prior to recovery of its cost basis. If an investor is able to meet the criteria to assert that it does not intend to sell the debt security and more likely than not will not be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, impairment charges related to credit losses would be recognized in earnings whereas impairment charges related to non credit losses would be reflected in other comprehensive income. The company elected early adoption of this rule in the first quarter of 2009. Adoption did not materially affect the companys financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on providing interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This new guidance requires the fair value disclosures that were previously disclosed only annually to be disclosed now on an interim basis. This guidance was effective for the company in the second quarter of 2009, and the additional disclosures have been made. In May 2009, the FASB issued a pronouncement on subsequent event accounting that establishes the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. The pronouncement was effective for the companys second quarter 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification, is the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of the Codification had no impact on the companys financial position or results of operations. In September 2009, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued new rules pertaining to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple customer deliverables and for software enabled products. The new rule pertaining to arrangements under which the company has multiple customer deliverables provides an alternative method for establishing the fair value of a deliverable when vendor specific objective evidence does not exist. The guidance requires the determination of the best estimate of selling price to separate deliverables and allows the allocation of the customers consideration using this relative Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) The company believes the following represent its critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of its financial statements: (a) Accounts Receivable The company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to pay amounts due. Such allowances totaled $47 million at December 31, 2009. The company estimates the amount of customer receivables that are uncollectible based on the age of the receivable, the creditworthiness of the customer and any other information that is relevant to the judgment. If the financial condition of the companys customers were to deteriorate, reducing their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required. (b) Inventories The company writes down its inventories for estimated excess quantities and obsolescence based on differences between the cost and estimated net realizable value taking into consideration usage in the preceding 12 months, expected demand and any other information that is relevant to the judgment. If ultimate usage or demand varies significantly from expected usage or demand, additional writedowns may be required. (c) Intangible Assets and Goodwill The company uses assumptions and estimates in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of the companys acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets that require the use of significant judgment in determining (i) fair value; and (ii) whether such intangibles are amortizable or non amortizable and, if the former, the period and the method by which the intangible asset will be amortized. The company estimates the fair value of acquisition related intangible assets principally based on projections of cash flows that will arise from identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses. The projected cash flows are discounted to determine the present value of the assets at the dates of acquisition. Amortizable intangible assets totaled $5.01 billion at December 31, 2009. The company reviews definite lived intangible assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Actual cash flows arising from a particular intangible asset could vary from projected cash flows which could imply different carrying values from those established at the dates of acquisition and which could result in impairment of such asset. The company evaluates goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually and when events occur or circumstances change that may reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying amount. Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets totaled $8.98 billion and $1.33 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth, asset related expenditures, working capital levels and other factors. Different assumptions from those made in the companys analysis could materially affect projected cash flows and the companys evaluation of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. Financial Statement Index 35 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) The companys businesses were adversely affected in 2009 by the global economic downturn, although results progressively improved during the year. Projections of profitability for 2010 and thereafter and indicated fair values based on peer revenues and earnings trading multiples were sufficient to conclude that no impairment of goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets existed at December 31, 2009. There can be no assurance, however, that indicators of economic recovery will continue into 2010 and that a prolonged downturn will not materially adversely affect peer trading multiples and the companys businesses such that they do not achieve their forecasted profitability and these assets become impaired. Should the fair value of the companys goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets decline because of reduced operating performance, market declines, or other indicators of impairment, or as a result of changes in the discount rate, charges for impairment may be necessary. (d) Other Long lived Assets The company reviews other long lived assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Other long lived assets totaled $1.77 billion at December 31, 2009, including $1.33 billion of fixed assets. In testing a long lived asset for impairment, assumptions are made concerning projected cash flows associated with the asset. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth and asset related expenditures associated with the asset being reviewed for impairment. Should future cash flows decline significantly from estimated amounts, charges for impairment of other long lived assets may be necessary. (e) Revenues In instances where the company sells equipment with a related installation obligation, the company generally recognizes revenue related to the equipment when title passes. The company recognizes revenue related to the installation when it performs the installation. The allocation of revenue between the equipment and the installation is based on relative fair value at the time of sale. Should the fair value of either the equipment or the installation change, the companys revenue recognition would be affected. If fair value is not available for any undelivered element, revenue for all elements is deferred until delivery of all elements is completed. In instances where the company sells equipment with customer specified acceptance criteria, the company must assess whether it can demonstrate adherence to the acceptance criteria prior to the customers acceptance testing to determine the timing of revenue recognition. If the nature of customer specified acceptance criteria were to change or grow in complexity such that the company could not demonstrate adherence, the company would be required to defer additional revenues upon shipment of its products until completion of customer acceptance testing. The companys software license agreements generally include multiple products and services, or elements. The company recognizes software license revenue based on the residual method after all elements have either been delivered or vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value exists for any undelivered elements. In the event VSOE is not available for any undelivered element, revenue for all elements is deferred until delivery of all elements is completed. Revenues from software maintenance and support contracts are recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. VSOE of fair value of software maintenance and support is determined based on the price charged for the maintenance and support when sold separately. Revenues from training and consulting services are recognized as services are performed, based on VSOE, which is determined by reference to the price customers pay when the services are sold separately. The company records reductions to revenue for estimated product returns by customers. Should a greater or lesser number of products be returned, additional adjustments to revenue may be required. Financial Statement Index 36 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (f) Warranty Obligations At the time the company recognizes revenue, it provides for the estimated cost of product warranties in cost of product revenues based primarily on historical experience and knowledge of any specific warranty problems that indicate projected warranty costs may vary from historical patterns. The liability for warranty obligations of the companys continuing operations totaled $45 million at December 31, 2009. Should product failure rates or the actual cost of correcting product failures vary from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be necessary. (g) Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying the companys income tax positions. The company assesses income tax positions and records tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon managements evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, the company has recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. Where applicable, associated interest expense has also been recognized. The company operates in numerous countries under many legal forms and, as a result, is subject to the jurisdiction of numerous domestic and non U.S. tax authorities, as well as to tax agreements and treaties among these governments. Determination of taxable income in any jurisdiction requires the interpretation of the related tax laws and regulations and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events, such as the amount, timing and character of deductions, permissible revenue recognition methods under the tax law and the sources and character of income and tax credits. Changes in tax laws, regulations, agreements and treaties, currency exchange restrictions or the companys level of operations or profitability in each taxing jurisdiction could have an impact upon the amount of current and deferred tax balances and hence the companys net income. The company estimates the degree to which tax assets and loss carryforwards will result in a benefit based on expected profitability by tax jurisdiction, and provides a valuation allowance for tax assets and loss carryforwards that it believes will more likely than not go unused. If it becomes more likely than not that a tax asset or loss carryforward will be used, the company reverses the related valuation allowance. Any such reversals are recorded as a reduction of the companys tax provision. The companys tax valuation allowance totaled $164.8 million at December 31, 2009. Should the companys actual future taxable income by tax jurisdiction vary from estimates, additional allowances or reversals thereof may be necessary. The company provides a liability for future income tax payments in the worldwide tax jurisdictions in which it operates. Accrued income taxes totaled $28 million at December 31, 2009. Should tax return positions that the company expects are sustainable not be sustained upon audit, the company could be required to record an incremental tax provision for such taxes. Should previously unrecognized tax benefits ultimately be sustained, a reduction in the companys tax provision would result. Financial Statement Index 37 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (h) Contingencies and Litigation The company records accruals for various contingencies, including legal proceedings, environmental, workers compensation, product, general and auto liabilities, and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. The accruals are based on managements judgment, historical claims experience, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and or external legal counsel and actuarial estimates. Reserves of acquired businesses, including environmental reserves, were initially recorded at fair value and discounted to their net present value. Additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. (i) Pension and Other Retiree Benefits Several of the companys U.S. and non U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension and other retiree benefit plans. The cost and obligations of these arrangements are calculated using many assumptions to estimate the benefits that the employee earns while working, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments cease. Major assumptions used in the accounting for these employee benefit plans include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of increase in employee compensation levels. Assumptions are determined based on company data and appropriate market indicators in consultation with third party actuaries, and are evaluated each year as of the plans measurement date. Net periodic pension costs for the companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans totaled $16 million in 2009. The companys unfunded benefit obligation totaled $225 million at year end 2009 compared with $303 million at year end 2008. Should any of these assumptions change, they would have an effect on net periodic pension costs and the unfunded benefit obligation. For example, a 10% decrease in the discount rate would result in an annual increase in pension and other postretirement benefit expense of approximately $2 million and an increase in the benefit obligation of approximately $85 million. The company expects to contribute between $20 and $30 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2010. (j) Stock based Compensation The fair value of most stock options granted by the company is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model. For option grants and restricted stock units that require achievement of both service and market conditions, a lattice model is used to estimate fair value. Use of a valuation model requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs. Management estimates expected volatility based on the historical volatility of the companys stock. The expected lives of option grants through 2007 were estimated using the simplified method for plain vanilla options. Thereafter, historical data on exercise patterns became the basis for determining the expected life of an option. The risk free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with a remaining term which approximates the expected life assumed at the date of grant. Changes in these input variables would affect the amount of expense associated with stock based compensation. The compensation expense recognized for all stock based awards is net of estimated forfeitures. The company estimates forfeiture rates based on historical analysis of option forfeitures. If actual forfeitures should vary from estimated forfeitures, adjustments to compensation expense may be required. Financial Statement Index 38 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (k) Restructuring Costs The company records restructuring charges for the cost of vacating facilities based on future lease obligations net of expected sub rental income. The companys accrued restructuring costs for abandoned facilities totaled $7 million at December 31, 2009. Should actual cash flows associated with sub rental income from vacated facilities vary from estimated amounts, adjustments may be required. (l) Assets Held for Sale The company estimates the expected proceeds from any assets held for sale and, when necessary, records losses to reduce the carrying value of these assets to estimated realizable value. Should the actual or estimated proceeds, which would include post closing purchase price adjustments, vary from current estimates, results could differ from expected amounts. Results of Operations 2009 Compared With 2008 Continuing Operations Sales in 2009 were $10.11 billion, a decrease of $388 million from 2008. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $211 million in 2009. Sales increased $165 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effects of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $342 million (3%) primarily a result of decreased demand which the company believes was due to economic uncertainty offset in part by price increases, as described by segment below. Sales of equipment and, to a lesser extent, services were particularly affected as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global market downturn. Sales of consumables grew modestly, however, and were not as significantly affected by the severe economic conditions. Sales were down in North America and Europe but grew modestly in Asia. In the latter part of 2009, the dollar weakened against other major currencies in which the company sells products and services. Weakening of the dollar had a favorable effect on revenues of the company of approximately 3% in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared with the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2009, operating income and operating income margin were $1.05 billion and 10.4%, respectively, compared with $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, in 2008. The decrease in operating income was due to lower profitability at existing businesses resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. In addition, restructuring and other costs increased $32 million in 2009 due primarily to a pension plan curtailment gain in the 2008 period and, to a lesser extent, increased cost reduction measures in 2009 due to the economic downturn. In 2009, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $69 million, including $7 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations and $2 million of charges to selling, general and administrative expenses for transaction costs related to the acquisitions of Biolab and B.R.A.H.M.S. on April 30, and October 1, 2009, respectively, offset in part by a gain primarily for settlement of certain pre merger Fisher product liability related matters. The company incurred $62 million of cash costs, primarily for actions in response to the downturn in the economy and reduced revenues, including severance to reduce headcount at several businesses and abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also incurred a $2 million loss on an abandoned facility held for sale that was sold in July 2009 and a $3 million charge Financial Statement Index 39 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) for pension termination benefits, offset by a $7 million gain on the settlement of a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher in 2006 (Note 14). In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. As of February 26, 2010, the company has identified restructuring actions that will result in additional charges of approximately $38 million in 2010 and expects to identify additional actions during 2010. The restructuring actions initiated in 2009 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $107 million, including $59 million for actions taken through the end of 2009 and $48 million for actions that have been approved and will be completed in 2010. Of the $107 million of total savings, $63 million is in the Analytical Technologies segment and $44 million is in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The restructuring actions initiated in 2008 resulted in annual cost savings beginning in the second half of 2008 and early 2009 of approximately $34 million, including $26 million in the Analytical Technologies segment and $8 million in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The companys revenues and profitability decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 although results progressively improved during 2009. The company believes the decreases were primarily due to the global economic downturn. There can be no assurance that indicators of economic recovery will continue into 2010 and that a prolonged downturn will not affect the companys projections of profitability for 2010 and future years. If actual results decrease materially from projected results, impairment of goodwill and acquisition related intangible assets could occur. These assets totaled $8.98 billion and $6.34 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Segment Results The companys management evaluates segment operating performance using operating income before certain charges/credits to cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses, principally associated with acquisition accounting; restructuring and other costs/income including costs arising from facility consolidations such as severance and abandoned lease expense and gains and losses from the sale of real estate and product lines; and amortization of acquisition related intangible assets. The company uses these measures because it helps management understand and evaluate the segments core operating results and facilitate comparison of performance for determining compensation (Note 3). Accordingly, the following segment data is reported on this basis. Financial Statement Index 40 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Laboratory Products and Services 6,426.6 6,455.2 0% Eliminations (470.8 ) (425.8 ) 11% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,109.7 $ 10,498.0 (4)% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 837.3 $ 955.3 (12)% Laboratory Products and Services 877.6 913.8 (4)% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,714.9 1,869.1 (8)% Cost of Revenues Charges (6.7 ) (1.5 ) Selling, General and Administrative Charges, Net (1.5 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (60.8 ) (35.4 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (597.0 ) (602.8 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,048.9 $ 1,229.4 (15)% Income from the companys reportable segments decreased 8% to $1.71 billion in 2009 due primarily to lower profitability at existing businesses, resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The company also refers to this measure as adjusted operating income. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Operating Income Margin 20.2% 21.4% (1.2) Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment decreased $315 million to $4.15 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenue of $92 million in 2009. Sales increased $44 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $267 million (6%) primarily due to lower demand offset in part by increased prices. Demand in industrial markets for environmental and process control instruments was particularly weak, which the company believes was due to the global economic downturn. The decrease in sales of these products was offset in part by higher demand for bioscience offerings and diagnostic products, including flu tests. Operating income margin was 20.2% in 2009 and 21.4% in 2008. The decrease resulted from lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Financial Statement Index 41 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 6,426.6 $ 6,455.2 0% Operating Income Margin 13.7% 14.2% (0.5) Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment decreased $29 million to $6.43 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $128 million in 2009. Sales increased $121 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $22 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of products purchased from a supplier discussed below, offset in part by increased prices. Demand for laboratory equipment was weak as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global economic downturn, however, this was more than offset by higher demand for products purchased through the companys research market and healthcare market channels. In July 2008, the company and a significant supplier of its healthcare market channel extended an existing agreement for two years through 2010. Under the revised agreement, the companys revenues from the sale of products purchased from the supplier decreased $61 million in 2009 to $205 million. In November 2009, the supplier notified the company that it intended to cease the current arrangement. The company believes this was in part a response to the companys strategic decision to expand its product offerings to provide its customers with a broader menu of diagnostic solutions. As a result of the supplier terminating this agreement, the company expects sales of related products to be approximately $75 million in 2010 and none thereafter. The company has signed an agreement with an alternative supplier of laboratory products and expects to sell approximately $40 million of these and other products from the new supplier in 2010, offsetting a portion of the anticipated drop in revenue. Operating income margin decreased to 13.7% in 2009 from 14.2% in 2008, primarily due to lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $122 million and $101 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively (Note 4). Interest income decreased to $16 million in 2009 from $52 million in 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates on invested cash balances. Interest expense decreased to $118 million from $152 million in 2008 primarily as a result of a reduction in average debt and lower interest rates on variable rate debt. In 2009, other expense, net, includes a $15 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt (Note 9). Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rates were 8.2% and 13.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reduced earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of newly enacted tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2010 will be between 17% and 19% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Financial Statement Index 42 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Contingent Liabilities At the end of 2009, the company was contingently liable with respect to certain legal proceedings and related matters. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the matters described under Litigation and Related Contingencies in Note 10 could materially affect the companys financial position as well as its results of operations and cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued a pronouncement concerning fair value measurement accounting. This guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The rule applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for the companys monetary assets and liabilities in the first quarter of 2008 and for non financial assets and liabilities beginning January 1, 2009. There was no material effect from adoption. In December 2007, the FASB revised the accounting rules concerning business combinations. This revised guidance does the following: requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose certain information to enable users to understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The rules require that cash outflows such as transaction costs and post acquisition restructuring be charged to expense instead of capitalized as a cost of the acquisition. Contingent purchase price is recorded at its initial fair value and then re measured periodically through adjustments to net income. The revised guidance was effective for the company, on a prospective basis, beginning January 1, 2009. There was no impact upon adoption; however, the rule changes may materially affect the accounting for any future business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued new rules on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The noncontrolling interest guidance changed the accounting for minority interests, which are reclassified as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In March 2008, the FASB issued a pronouncement pertaining to disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance requires disclosures of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The rule was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no material effect from adoption. In May 2008, the FASB issued new rules on the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement of such debt instruments. The rules require the issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The new guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rules required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. The companys cash payments for interest have not been affected, but adoption increased the companys reported interest expense for all periods presented in a manner that reflects interest rates of similar non convertible debt. Interest expense in 2008 and 2007, as adjusted for adoption of this rule, increased $22 million and $21 million, respectively, over the previously reported amounts. Financial Statement Index 43 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities. This guidance clarifies that share based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. The guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rule required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. Adoption had a nominal effect on the numerator and, for diluted presentation, the denominator in the calculation of earnings per share for all periods presented. In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires additional disclosures about an employers plan assets of defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. This rule expands current disclosures of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets to include information regarding the fair value measurements of plan assets. The guidance was effective for the company beginning in January 2009 and the additional disclosures have been made. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This guidance amends the prior other than temporary impairment guidance for certain debt securities and will require the investor to assess the likelihood of selling the debt security prior to recovery of its cost basis. If an investor is able to meet the criteria to assert that it does not intend to sell the debt security and more likely than not will not be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, impairment charges related to credit losses would be recognized in earnings whereas impairment charges related to non credit losses would be reflected in other comprehensive income. The company elected early adoption of this rule in the first quarter of 2009. Adoption did not materially affect the companys financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on providing interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This new guidance requires the fair value disclosures that were previously disclosed only annually to be disclosed now on an interim basis. This guidance was effective for the company in the second quarter of 2009, and the additional disclosures have been made. In May 2009, the FASB issued a pronouncement on subsequent event accounting that establishes the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. The pronouncement was effective for the companys second quarter 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification, is the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of the Codification had no impact on the companys financial position or results of operations. In September 2009, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued new rules pertaining to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple customer deliverables and for software enabled products. The new rule pertaining to arrangements under which the company has multiple customer deliverables provides an alternative method for establishing the fair value of a deliverable when vendor specific objective evidence does not exist. The guidance requires the determination of the best estimate of selling price to separate deliverables and allows the allocation of the customers consideration using this relative Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) The companys businesses were adversely affected in 2009 by the global economic downturn, although results progressively improved during the year. Projections of profitability for 2010 and thereafter and indicated fair values based on peer revenues and earnings trading multiples were sufficient to conclude that no impairment of goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets existed at December 31, 2009. There can be no assurance, however, that indicators of economic recovery will continue into 2010 and that a prolonged downturn will not materially adversely affect peer trading multiples and the companys businesses such that they do not achieve their forecasted profitability and these assets become impaired. Should the fair value of the companys goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets decline because of reduced operating performance, market declines, or other indicators of impairment, or as a result of changes in the discount rate, charges for impairment may be necessary. (d) Other Long lived Assets The company reviews other long lived assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Other long lived assets totaled $1.77 billion at December 31, 2009, including $1.33 billion of fixed assets. In testing a long lived asset for impairment, assumptions are made concerning projected cash flows associated with the asset. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth and asset related expenditures associated with the asset being reviewed for impairment. Should future cash flows decline significantly from estimated amounts, charges for impairment of other long lived assets may be necessary. (e) Revenues In instances where the company sells equipment with a related installation obligation, the company generally recognizes revenue related to the equipment when title passes. The company recognizes revenue related to the installation when it performs the installation. The allocation of revenue between the equipment and the installation is based on relative fair value at the time of sale. Should the fair value of either the equipment or the installation change, the companys revenue recognition would be affected. If fair value is not available for any undelivered element, revenue for all elements is deferred until delivery of all elements is completed. In instances where the company sells equipment with customer specified acceptance criteria, the company must assess whether it can demonstrate adherence to the acceptance criteria prior to the customers acceptance testing to determine the timing of revenue recognition. If the nature of customer specified acceptance criteria were to change or grow in complexity such that the company could not demonstrate adherence, the company would be required to defer additional revenues upon shipment of its products until completion of customer acceptance testing. The companys software license agreements generally include multiple products and services, or elements. The company recognizes software license revenue based on the residual method after all elements have either been delivered or vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value exists for any undelivered elements. In the event VSOE is not available for any undelivered element, revenue for all elements is deferred until delivery of all elements is completed. Revenues from software maintenance and support contracts are recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. VSOE of fair value of software maintenance and support is determined based on the price charged for the maintenance and support when sold separately. Revenues from training and consulting services are recognized as services are performed, based on VSOE, which is determined by reference to the price customers pay when the services are sold separately. The company records reductions to revenue for estimated product returns by customers. Should a greater or lesser number of products be returned, additional adjustments to revenue may be required. Financial Statement Index 36 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (f) Warranty Obligations At the time the company recognizes revenue, it provides for the estimated cost of product warranties in cost of product revenues based primarily on historical experience and knowledge of any specific warranty problems that indicate projected warranty costs may vary from historical patterns. The liability for warranty obligations of the companys continuing operations totaled $45 million at December 31, 2009. Should product failure rates or the actual cost of correcting product failures vary from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be necessary. (g) Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying the companys income tax positions. The company assesses income tax positions and records tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon managements evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, the company has recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. Where applicable, associated interest expense has also been recognized. The company operates in numerous countries under many legal forms and, as a result, is subject to the jurisdiction of numerous domestic and non U.S. tax authorities, as well as to tax agreements and treaties among these governments. Determination of taxable income in any jurisdiction requires the interpretation of the related tax laws and regulations and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events, such as the amount, timing and character of deductions, permissible revenue recognition methods under the tax law and the sources and character of income and tax credits. Changes in tax laws, regulations, agreements and treaties, currency exchange restrictions or the companys level of operations or profitability in each taxing jurisdiction could have an impact upon the amount of current and deferred tax balances and hence the companys net income. The company estimates the degree to which tax assets and loss carryforwards will result in a benefit based on expected profitability by tax jurisdiction, and provides a valuation allowance for tax assets and loss carryforwards that it believes will more likely than not go unused. If it becomes more likely than not that a tax asset or loss carryforward will be used, the company reverses the related valuation allowance. Any such reversals are recorded as a reduction of the companys tax provision. The companys tax valuation allowance totaled $164.8 million at December 31, 2009. Should the companys actual future taxable income by tax jurisdiction vary from estimates, additional allowances or reversals thereof may be necessary. The company provides a liability for future income tax payments in the worldwide tax jurisdictions in which it operates. Accrued income taxes totaled $28 million at December 31, 2009. Should tax return positions that the company expects are sustainable not be sustained upon audit, the company could be required to record an incremental tax provision for such taxes. Should previously unrecognized tax benefits ultimately be sustained, a reduction in the companys tax provision would result. Financial Statement Index 37 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (h) Contingencies and Litigation The company records accruals for various contingencies, including legal proceedings, environmental, workers compensation, product, general and auto liabilities, and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. The accruals are based on managements judgment, historical claims experience, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and or external legal counsel and actuarial estimates. Reserves of acquired businesses, including environmental reserves, were initially recorded at fair value and discounted to their net present value. Additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. (i) Pension and Other Retiree Benefits Several of the companys U.S. and non U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension and other retiree benefit plans. The cost and obligations of these arrangements are calculated using many assumptions to estimate the benefits that the employee earns while working, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments cease. Major assumptions used in the accounting for these employee benefit plans include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of increase in employee compensation levels. Assumptions are determined based on company data and appropriate market indicators in consultation with third party actuaries, and are evaluated each year as of the plans measurement date. Net periodic pension costs for the companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans totaled $16 million in 2009. The companys unfunded benefit obligation totaled $225 million at year end 2009 compared with $303 million at year end 2008. Should any of these assumptions change, they would have an effect on net periodic pension costs and the unfunded benefit obligation. For example, a 10% decrease in the discount rate would result in an annual increase in pension and other postretirement benefit expense of approximately $2 million and an increase in the benefit obligation of approximately $85 million. The company expects to contribute between $20 and $30 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2010. (j) Stock based Compensation The fair value of most stock options granted by the company is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model. For option grants and restricted stock units that require achievement of both service and market conditions, a lattice model is used to estimate fair value. Use of a valuation model requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs. Management estimates expected volatility based on the historical volatility of the companys stock. The expected lives of option grants through 2007 were estimated using the simplified method for plain vanilla options. Thereafter, historical data on exercise patterns became the basis for determining the expected life of an option. The risk free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with a remaining term which approximates the expected life assumed at the date of grant. Changes in these input variables would affect the amount of expense associated with stock based compensation. The compensation expense recognized for all stock based awards is net of estimated forfeitures. The company estimates forfeiture rates based on historical analysis of option forfeitures. If actual forfeitures should vary from estimated forfeitures, adjustments to compensation expense may be required. Financial Statement Index 38 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (k) Restructuring Costs The company records restructuring charges for the cost of vacating facilities based on future lease obligations net of expected sub rental income. The companys accrued restructuring costs for abandoned facilities totaled $7 million at December 31, 2009. Should actual cash flows associated with sub rental income from vacated facilities vary from estimated amounts, adjustments may be required. (l) Assets Held for Sale The company estimates the expected proceeds from any assets held for sale and, when necessary, records losses to reduce the carrying value of these assets to estimated realizable value. Should the actual or estimated proceeds, which would include post closing purchase price adjustments, vary from current estimates, results could differ from expected amounts. Results of Operations 2009 Compared With 2008 Continuing Operations Sales in 2009 were $10.11 billion, a decrease of $388 million from 2008. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $211 million in 2009. Sales increased $165 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effects of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $342 million (3%) primarily a result of decreased demand which the company believes was due to economic uncertainty offset in part by price increases, as described by segment below. Sales of equipment and, to a lesser extent, services were particularly affected as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global market downturn. Sales of consumables grew modestly, however, and were not as significantly affected by the severe economic conditions. Sales were down in North America and Europe but grew modestly in Asia. In the latter part of 2009, the dollar weakened against other major currencies in which the company sells products and services. Weakening of the dollar had a favorable effect on revenues of the company of approximately 3% in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared with the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2009, operating income and operating income margin were $1.05 billion and 10.4%, respectively, compared with $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, in 2008. The decrease in operating income was due to lower profitability at existing businesses resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. In addition, restructuring and other costs increased $32 million in 2009 due primarily to a pension plan curtailment gain in the 2008 period and, to a lesser extent, increased cost reduction measures in 2009 due to the economic downturn. In 2009, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $69 million, including $7 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations and $2 million of charges to selling, general and administrative expenses for transaction costs related to the acquisitions of Biolab and B.R.A.H.M.S. on April 30, and October 1, 2009, respectively, offset in part by a gain primarily for settlement of certain pre merger Fisher product liability related matters. The company incurred $62 million of cash costs, primarily for actions in response to the downturn in the economy and reduced revenues, including severance to reduce headcount at several businesses and abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also incurred a $2 million loss on an abandoned facility held for sale that was sold in July 2009 and a $3 million charge Financial Statement Index 39 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) for pension termination benefits, offset by a $7 million gain on the settlement of a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher in 2006 (Note 14). In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. As of February 26, 2010, the company has identified restructuring actions that will result in additional charges of approximately $38 million in 2010 and expects to identify additional actions during 2010. The restructuring actions initiated in 2009 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $107 million, including $59 million for actions taken through the end of 2009 and $48 million for actions that have been approved and will be completed in 2010. Of the $107 million of total savings, $63 million is in the Analytical Technologies segment and $44 million is in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The restructuring actions initiated in 2008 resulted in annual cost savings beginning in the second half of 2008 and early 2009 of approximately $34 million, including $26 million in the Analytical Technologies segment and $8 million in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The companys revenues and profitability decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 although results progressively improved during 2009. The company believes the decreases were primarily due to the global economic downturn. There can be no assurance that indicators of economic recovery will continue into 2010 and that a prolonged downturn will not affect the companys projections of profitability for 2010 and future years. If actual results decrease materially from projected results, impairment of goodwill and acquisition related intangible assets could occur. These assets totaled $8.98 billion and $6.34 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Segment Results The companys management evaluates segment operating performance using operating income before certain charges/credits to cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses, principally associated with acquisition accounting; restructuring and other costs/income including costs arising from facility consolidations such as severance and abandoned lease expense and gains and losses from the sale of real estate and product lines; and amortization of acquisition related intangible assets. The company uses these measures because it helps management understand and evaluate the segments core operating results and facilitate comparison of performance for determining compensation (Note 3). Accordingly, the following segment data is reported on this basis. Financial Statement Index 40 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Laboratory Products and Services 6,426.6 6,455.2 0% Eliminations (470.8 ) (425.8 ) 11% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,109.7 $ 10,498.0 (4)% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 837.3 $ 955.3 (12)% Laboratory Products and Services 877.6 913.8 (4)% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,714.9 1,869.1 (8)% Cost of Revenues Charges (6.7 ) (1.5 ) Selling, General and Administrative Charges, Net (1.5 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (60.8 ) (35.4 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (597.0 ) (602.8 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,048.9 $ 1,229.4 (15)% Income from the companys reportable segments decreased 8% to $1.71 billion in 2009 due primarily to lower profitability at existing businesses, resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The company also refers to this measure as adjusted operating income. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Operating Income Margin 20.2% 21.4% (1.2) Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment decreased $315 million to $4.15 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenue of $92 million in 2009. Sales increased $44 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $267 million (6%) primarily due to lower demand offset in part by increased prices. Demand in industrial markets for environmental and process control instruments was particularly weak, which the company believes was due to the global economic downturn. The decrease in sales of these products was offset in part by higher demand for bioscience offerings and diagnostic products, including flu tests. Operating income margin was 20.2% in 2009 and 21.4% in 2008. The decrease resulted from lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Financial Statement Index 41 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 6,426.6 $ 6,455.2 0% Operating Income Margin 13.7% 14.2% (0.5) Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment decreased $29 million to $6.43 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $128 million in 2009. Sales increased $121 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $22 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of products purchased from a supplier discussed below, offset in part by increased prices. Demand for laboratory equipment was weak as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global economic downturn, however, this was more than offset by higher demand for products purchased through the companys research market and healthcare market channels. In July 2008, the company and a significant supplier of its healthcare market channel extended an existing agreement for two years through 2010. Under the revised agreement, the companys revenues from the sale of products purchased from the supplier decreased $61 million in 2009 to $205 million. In November 2009, the supplier notified the company that it intended to cease the current arrangement. The company believes this was in part a response to the companys strategic decision to expand its product offerings to provide its customers with a broader menu of diagnostic solutions. As a result of the supplier terminating this agreement, the company expects sales of related products to be approximately $75 million in 2010 and none thereafter. The company has signed an agreement with an alternative supplier of laboratory products and expects to sell approximately $40 million of these and other products from the new supplier in 2010, offsetting a portion of the anticipated drop in revenue. Operating income margin decreased to 13.7% in 2009 from 14.2% in 2008, primarily due to lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $122 million and $101 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively (Note 4). Interest income decreased to $16 million in 2009 from $52 million in 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates on invested cash balances. Interest expense decreased to $118 million from $152 million in 2008 primarily as a result of a reduction in average debt and lower interest rates on variable rate debt. In 2009, other expense, net, includes a $15 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt (Note 9). Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rates were 8.2% and 13.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reduced earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of newly enacted tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2010 will be between 17% and 19% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Financial Statement Index 42 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Contingent Liabilities At the end of 2009, the company was contingently liable with respect to certain legal proceedings and related matters. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the matters described under Litigation and Related Contingencies in Note 10 could materially affect the companys financial position as well as its results of operations and cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued a pronouncement concerning fair value measurement accounting. This guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The rule applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for the companys monetary assets and liabilities in the first quarter of 2008 and for non financial assets and liabilities beginning January 1, 2009. There was no material effect from adoption. In December 2007, the FASB revised the accounting rules concerning business combinations. This revised guidance does the following: requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose certain information to enable users to understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The rules require that cash outflows such as transaction costs and post acquisition restructuring be charged to expense instead of capitalized as a cost of the acquisition. Contingent purchase price is recorded at its initial fair value and then re measured periodically through adjustments to net income. The revised guidance was effective for the company, on a prospective basis, beginning January 1, 2009. There was no impact upon adoption; however, the rule changes may materially affect the accounting for any future business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued new rules on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The noncontrolling interest guidance changed the accounting for minority interests, which are reclassified as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In March 2008, the FASB issued a pronouncement pertaining to disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance requires disclosures of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The rule was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no material effect from adoption. In May 2008, the FASB issued new rules on the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement of such debt instruments. The rules require the issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The new guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rules required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. The companys cash payments for interest have not been affected, but adoption increased the companys reported interest expense for all periods presented in a manner that reflects interest rates of similar non convertible debt. Interest expense in 2008 and 2007, as adjusted for adoption of this rule, increased $22 million and $21 million, respectively, over the previously reported amounts. Financial Statement Index 43 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities. This guidance clarifies that share based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. The guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rule required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. Adoption had a nominal effect on the numerator and, for diluted presentation, the denominator in the calculation of earnings per share for all periods presented. In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires additional disclosures about an employers plan assets of defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. This rule expands current disclosures of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets to include information regarding the fair value measurements of plan assets. The guidance was effective for the company beginning in January 2009 and the additional disclosures have been made. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This guidance amends the prior other than temporary impairment guidance for certain debt securities and will require the investor to assess the likelihood of selling the debt security prior to recovery of its cost basis. If an investor is able to meet the criteria to assert that it does not intend to sell the debt security and more likely than not will not be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, impairment charges related to credit losses would be recognized in earnings whereas impairment charges related to non credit losses would be reflected in other comprehensive income. The company elected early adoption of this rule in the first quarter of 2009. Adoption did not materially affect the companys financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on providing interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This new guidance requires the fair value disclosures that were previously disclosed only annually to be disclosed now on an interim basis. This guidance was effective for the company in the second quarter of 2009, and the additional disclosures have been made. In May 2009, the FASB issued a pronouncement on subsequent event accounting that establishes the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. The pronouncement was effective for the companys second quarter 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification, is the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of the Codification had no impact on the companys financial position or results of operations. In September 2009, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued new rules pertaining to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple customer deliverables and for software enabled products. The new rule pertaining to arrangements under which the company has multiple customer deliverables provides an alternative method for establishing the fair value of a deliverable when vendor specific objective evidence does not exist. The guidance requires the determination of the best estimate of selling price to separate deliverables and allows the allocation of the customers consideration using this relative Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (f) Warranty Obligations At the time the company recognizes revenue, it provides for the estimated cost of product warranties in cost of product revenues based primarily on historical experience and knowledge of any specific warranty problems that indicate projected warranty costs may vary from historical patterns. The liability for warranty obligations of the companys continuing operations totaled $45 million at December 31, 2009. Should product failure rates or the actual cost of correcting product failures vary from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be necessary. (g) Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying the companys income tax positions. The company assesses income tax positions and records tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon managements evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, the company has recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. Where applicable, associated interest expense has also been recognized. The company operates in numerous countries under many legal forms and, as a result, is subject to the jurisdiction of numerous domestic and non U.S. tax authorities, as well as to tax agreements and treaties among these governments. Determination of taxable income in any jurisdiction requires the interpretation of the related tax laws and regulations and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events, such as the amount, timing and character of deductions, permissible revenue recognition methods under the tax law and the sources and character of income and tax credits. Changes in tax laws, regulations, agreements and treaties, currency exchange restrictions or the companys level of operations or profitability in each taxing jurisdiction could have an impact upon the amount of current and deferred tax balances and hence the companys net income. The company estimates the degree to which tax assets and loss carryforwards will result in a benefit based on expected profitability by tax jurisdiction, and provides a valuation allowance for tax assets and loss carryforwards that it believes will more likely than not go unused. If it becomes more likely than not that a tax asset or loss carryforward will be used, the company reverses the related valuation allowance. Any such reversals are recorded as a reduction of the companys tax provision. The companys tax valuation allowance totaled $164.8 million at December 31, 2009. Should the companys actual future taxable income by tax jurisdiction vary from estimates, additional allowances or reversals thereof may be necessary. The company provides a liability for future income tax payments in the worldwide tax jurisdictions in which it operates. Accrued income taxes totaled $28 million at December 31, 2009. Should tax return positions that the company expects are sustainable not be sustained upon audit, the company could be required to record an incremental tax provision for such taxes. Should previously unrecognized tax benefits ultimately be sustained, a reduction in the companys tax provision would result. Financial Statement Index 37 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (h) Contingencies and Litigation The company records accruals for various contingencies, including legal proceedings, environmental, workers compensation, product, general and auto liabilities, and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. The accruals are based on managements judgment, historical claims experience, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and or external legal counsel and actuarial estimates. Reserves of acquired businesses, including environmental reserves, were initially recorded at fair value and discounted to their net present value. Additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. (i) Pension and Other Retiree Benefits Several of the companys U.S. and non U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension and other retiree benefit plans. The cost and obligations of these arrangements are calculated using many assumptions to estimate the benefits that the employee earns while working, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments cease. Major assumptions used in the accounting for these employee benefit plans include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of increase in employee compensation levels. Assumptions are determined based on company data and appropriate market indicators in consultation with third party actuaries, and are evaluated each year as of the plans measurement date. Net periodic pension costs for the companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans totaled $16 million in 2009. The companys unfunded benefit obligation totaled $225 million at year end 2009 compared with $303 million at year end 2008. Should any of these assumptions change, they would have an effect on net periodic pension costs and the unfunded benefit obligation. For example, a 10% decrease in the discount rate would result in an annual increase in pension and other postretirement benefit expense of approximately $2 million and an increase in the benefit obligation of approximately $85 million. The company expects to contribute between $20 and $30 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2010. (j) Stock based Compensation The fair value of most stock options granted by the company is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model. For option grants and restricted stock units that require achievement of both service and market conditions, a lattice model is used to estimate fair value. Use of a valuation model requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs. Management estimates expected volatility based on the historical volatility of the companys stock. The expected lives of option grants through 2007 were estimated using the simplified method for plain vanilla options. Thereafter, historical data on exercise patterns became the basis for determining the expected life of an option. The risk free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with a remaining term which approximates the expected life assumed at the date of grant. Changes in these input variables would affect the amount of expense associated with stock based compensation. The compensation expense recognized for all stock based awards is net of estimated forfeitures. The company estimates forfeiture rates based on historical analysis of option forfeitures. If actual forfeitures should vary from estimated forfeitures, adjustments to compensation expense may be required. Financial Statement Index 38 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (k) Restructuring Costs The company records restructuring charges for the cost of vacating facilities based on future lease obligations net of expected sub rental income. The companys accrued restructuring costs for abandoned facilities totaled $7 million at December 31, 2009. Should actual cash flows associated with sub rental income from vacated facilities vary from estimated amounts, adjustments may be required. (l) Assets Held for Sale The company estimates the expected proceeds from any assets held for sale and, when necessary, records losses to reduce the carrying value of these assets to estimated realizable value. Should the actual or estimated proceeds, which would include post closing purchase price adjustments, vary from current estimates, results could differ from expected amounts. Results of Operations 2009 Compared With 2008 Continuing Operations Sales in 2009 were $10.11 billion, a decrease of $388 million from 2008. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $211 million in 2009. Sales increased $165 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effects of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $342 million (3%) primarily a result of decreased demand which the company believes was due to economic uncertainty offset in part by price increases, as described by segment below. Sales of equipment and, to a lesser extent, services were particularly affected as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global market downturn. Sales of consumables grew modestly, however, and were not as significantly affected by the severe economic conditions. Sales were down in North America and Europe but grew modestly in Asia. In the latter part of 2009, the dollar weakened against other major currencies in which the company sells products and services. Weakening of the dollar had a favorable effect on revenues of the company of approximately 3% in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared with the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2009, operating income and operating income margin were $1.05 billion and 10.4%, respectively, compared with $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, in 2008. The decrease in operating income was due to lower profitability at existing businesses resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. In addition, restructuring and other costs increased $32 million in 2009 due primarily to a pension plan curtailment gain in the 2008 period and, to a lesser extent, increased cost reduction measures in 2009 due to the economic downturn. In 2009, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $69 million, including $7 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations and $2 million of charges to selling, general and administrative expenses for transaction costs related to the acquisitions of Biolab and B.R.A.H.M.S. on April 30, and October 1, 2009, respectively, offset in part by a gain primarily for settlement of certain pre merger Fisher product liability related matters. The company incurred $62 million of cash costs, primarily for actions in response to the downturn in the economy and reduced revenues, including severance to reduce headcount at several businesses and abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also incurred a $2 million loss on an abandoned facility held for sale that was sold in July 2009 and a $3 million charge Financial Statement Index 39 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) for pension termination benefits, offset by a $7 million gain on the settlement of a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher in 2006 (Note 14). In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. As of February 26, 2010, the company has identified restructuring actions that will result in additional charges of approximately $38 million in 2010 and expects to identify additional actions during 2010. The restructuring actions initiated in 2009 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $107 million, including $59 million for actions taken through the end of 2009 and $48 million for actions that have been approved and will be completed in 2010. Of the $107 million of total savings, $63 million is in the Analytical Technologies segment and $44 million is in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The restructuring actions initiated in 2008 resulted in annual cost savings beginning in the second half of 2008 and early 2009 of approximately $34 million, including $26 million in the Analytical Technologies segment and $8 million in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The companys revenues and profitability decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 although results progressively improved during 2009. The company believes the decreases were primarily due to the global economic downturn. There can be no assurance that indicators of economic recovery will continue into 2010 and that a prolonged downturn will not affect the companys projections of profitability for 2010 and future years. If actual results decrease materially from projected results, impairment of goodwill and acquisition related intangible assets could occur. These assets totaled $8.98 billion and $6.34 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Segment Results The companys management evaluates segment operating performance using operating income before certain charges/credits to cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses, principally associated with acquisition accounting; restructuring and other costs/income including costs arising from facility consolidations such as severance and abandoned lease expense and gains and losses from the sale of real estate and product lines; and amortization of acquisition related intangible assets. The company uses these measures because it helps management understand and evaluate the segments core operating results and facilitate comparison of performance for determining compensation (Note 3). Accordingly, the following segment data is reported on this basis. Financial Statement Index 40 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Laboratory Products and Services 6,426.6 6,455.2 0% Eliminations (470.8 ) (425.8 ) 11% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,109.7 $ 10,498.0 (4)% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 837.3 $ 955.3 (12)% Laboratory Products and Services 877.6 913.8 (4)% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,714.9 1,869.1 (8)% Cost of Revenues Charges (6.7 ) (1.5 ) Selling, General and Administrative Charges, Net (1.5 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (60.8 ) (35.4 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (597.0 ) (602.8 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,048.9 $ 1,229.4 (15)% Income from the companys reportable segments decreased 8% to $1.71 billion in 2009 due primarily to lower profitability at existing businesses, resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The company also refers to this measure as adjusted operating income. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Operating Income Margin 20.2% 21.4% (1.2) Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment decreased $315 million to $4.15 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenue of $92 million in 2009. Sales increased $44 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $267 million (6%) primarily due to lower demand offset in part by increased prices. Demand in industrial markets for environmental and process control instruments was particularly weak, which the company believes was due to the global economic downturn. The decrease in sales of these products was offset in part by higher demand for bioscience offerings and diagnostic products, including flu tests. Operating income margin was 20.2% in 2009 and 21.4% in 2008. The decrease resulted from lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Financial Statement Index 41 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 6,426.6 $ 6,455.2 0% Operating Income Margin 13.7% 14.2% (0.5) Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment decreased $29 million to $6.43 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $128 million in 2009. Sales increased $121 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $22 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of products purchased from a supplier discussed below, offset in part by increased prices. Demand for laboratory equipment was weak as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global economic downturn, however, this was more than offset by higher demand for products purchased through the companys research market and healthcare market channels. In July 2008, the company and a significant supplier of its healthcare market channel extended an existing agreement for two years through 2010. Under the revised agreement, the companys revenues from the sale of products purchased from the supplier decreased $61 million in 2009 to $205 million. In November 2009, the supplier notified the company that it intended to cease the current arrangement. The company believes this was in part a response to the companys strategic decision to expand its product offerings to provide its customers with a broader menu of diagnostic solutions. As a result of the supplier terminating this agreement, the company expects sales of related products to be approximately $75 million in 2010 and none thereafter. The company has signed an agreement with an alternative supplier of laboratory products and expects to sell approximately $40 million of these and other products from the new supplier in 2010, offsetting a portion of the anticipated drop in revenue. Operating income margin decreased to 13.7% in 2009 from 14.2% in 2008, primarily due to lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $122 million and $101 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively (Note 4). Interest income decreased to $16 million in 2009 from $52 million in 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates on invested cash balances. Interest expense decreased to $118 million from $152 million in 2008 primarily as a result of a reduction in average debt and lower interest rates on variable rate debt. In 2009, other expense, net, includes a $15 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt (Note 9). Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rates were 8.2% and 13.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reduced earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of newly enacted tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2010 will be between 17% and 19% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Financial Statement Index 42 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Contingent Liabilities At the end of 2009, the company was contingently liable with respect to certain legal proceedings and related matters. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the matters described under Litigation and Related Contingencies in Note 10 could materially affect the companys financial position as well as its results of operations and cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued a pronouncement concerning fair value measurement accounting. This guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The rule applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for the companys monetary assets and liabilities in the first quarter of 2008 and for non financial assets and liabilities beginning January 1, 2009. There was no material effect from adoption. In December 2007, the FASB revised the accounting rules concerning business combinations. This revised guidance does the following: requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose certain information to enable users to understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The rules require that cash outflows such as transaction costs and post acquisition restructuring be charged to expense instead of capitalized as a cost of the acquisition. Contingent purchase price is recorded at its initial fair value and then re measured periodically through adjustments to net income. The revised guidance was effective for the company, on a prospective basis, beginning January 1, 2009. There was no impact upon adoption; however, the rule changes may materially affect the accounting for any future business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued new rules on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The noncontrolling interest guidance changed the accounting for minority interests, which are reclassified as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In March 2008, the FASB issued a pronouncement pertaining to disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance requires disclosures of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The rule was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no material effect from adoption. In May 2008, the FASB issued new rules on the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement of such debt instruments. The rules require the issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The new guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rules required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. The companys cash payments for interest have not been affected, but adoption increased the companys reported interest expense for all periods presented in a manner that reflects interest rates of similar non convertible debt. Interest expense in 2008 and 2007, as adjusted for adoption of this rule, increased $22 million and $21 million, respectively, over the previously reported amounts. Financial Statement Index 43 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities. This guidance clarifies that share based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. The guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rule required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. Adoption had a nominal effect on the numerator and, for diluted presentation, the denominator in the calculation of earnings per share for all periods presented. In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires additional disclosures about an employers plan assets of defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. This rule expands current disclosures of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets to include information regarding the fair value measurements of plan assets. The guidance was effective for the company beginning in January 2009 and the additional disclosures have been made. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This guidance amends the prior other than temporary impairment guidance for certain debt securities and will require the investor to assess the likelihood of selling the debt security prior to recovery of its cost basis. If an investor is able to meet the criteria to assert that it does not intend to sell the debt security and more likely than not will not be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, impairment charges related to credit losses would be recognized in earnings whereas impairment charges related to non credit losses would be reflected in other comprehensive income. The company elected early adoption of this rule in the first quarter of 2009. Adoption did not materially affect the companys financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on providing interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This new guidance requires the fair value disclosures that were previously disclosed only annually to be disclosed now on an interim basis. This guidance was effective for the company in the second quarter of 2009, and the additional disclosures have been made. In May 2009, the FASB issued a pronouncement on subsequent event accounting that establishes the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. The pronouncement was effective for the companys second quarter 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification, is the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of the Codification had no impact on the companys financial position or results of operations. In September 2009, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued new rules pertaining to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple customer deliverables and for software enabled products. The new rule pertaining to arrangements under which the company has multiple customer deliverables provides an alternative method for establishing the fair value of a deliverable when vendor specific objective evidence does not exist. The guidance requires the determination of the best estimate of selling price to separate deliverables and allows the allocation of the customers consideration using this relative Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (h) Contingencies and Litigation The company records accruals for various contingencies, including legal proceedings, environmental, workers compensation, product, general and auto liabilities, and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. The accruals are based on managements judgment, historical claims experience, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and or external legal counsel and actuarial estimates. Reserves of acquired businesses, including environmental reserves, were initially recorded at fair value and discounted to their net present value. Additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. (i) Pension and Other Retiree Benefits Several of the companys U.S. and non U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension and other retiree benefit plans. The cost and obligations of these arrangements are calculated using many assumptions to estimate the benefits that the employee earns while working, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments cease. Major assumptions used in the accounting for these employee benefit plans include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of increase in employee compensation levels. Assumptions are determined based on company data and appropriate market indicators in consultation with third party actuaries, and are evaluated each year as of the plans measurement date. Net periodic pension costs for the companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans totaled $16 million in 2009. The companys unfunded benefit obligation totaled $225 million at year end 2009 compared with $303 million at year end 2008. Should any of these assumptions change, they would have an effect on net periodic pension costs and the unfunded benefit obligation. For example, a 10% decrease in the discount rate would result in an annual increase in pension and other postretirement benefit expense of approximately $2 million and an increase in the benefit obligation of approximately $85 million. The company expects to contribute between $20 and $30 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2010. (j) Stock based Compensation The fair value of most stock options granted by the company is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model. For option grants and restricted stock units that require achievement of both service and market conditions, a lattice model is used to estimate fair value. Use of a valuation model requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs. Management estimates expected volatility based on the historical volatility of the companys stock. The expected lives of option grants through 2007 were estimated using the simplified method for plain vanilla options. Thereafter, historical data on exercise patterns became the basis for determining the expected life of an option. The risk free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with a remaining term which approximates the expected life assumed at the date of grant. Changes in these input variables would affect the amount of expense associated with stock based compensation. The compensation expense recognized for all stock based awards is net of estimated forfeitures. The company estimates forfeiture rates based on historical analysis of option forfeitures. If actual forfeitures should vary from estimated forfeitures, adjustments to compensation expense may be required. Financial Statement Index 38 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (k) Restructuring Costs The company records restructuring charges for the cost of vacating facilities based on future lease obligations net of expected sub rental income. The companys accrued restructuring costs for abandoned facilities totaled $7 million at December 31, 2009. Should actual cash flows associated with sub rental income from vacated facilities vary from estimated amounts, adjustments may be required. (l) Assets Held for Sale The company estimates the expected proceeds from any assets held for sale and, when necessary, records losses to reduce the carrying value of these assets to estimated realizable value. Should the actual or estimated proceeds, which would include post closing purchase price adjustments, vary from current estimates, results could differ from expected amounts. Results of Operations 2009 Compared With 2008 Continuing Operations Sales in 2009 were $10.11 billion, a decrease of $388 million from 2008. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $211 million in 2009. Sales increased $165 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effects of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $342 million (3%) primarily a result of decreased demand which the company believes was due to economic uncertainty offset in part by price increases, as described by segment below. Sales of equipment and, to a lesser extent, services were particularly affected as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global market downturn. Sales of consumables grew modestly, however, and were not as significantly affected by the severe economic conditions. Sales were down in North America and Europe but grew modestly in Asia. In the latter part of 2009, the dollar weakened against other major currencies in which the company sells products and services. Weakening of the dollar had a favorable effect on revenues of the company of approximately 3% in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared with the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2009, operating income and operating income margin were $1.05 billion and 10.4%, respectively, compared with $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, in 2008. The decrease in operating income was due to lower profitability at existing businesses resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. In addition, restructuring and other costs increased $32 million in 2009 due primarily to a pension plan curtailment gain in the 2008 period and, to a lesser extent, increased cost reduction measures in 2009 due to the economic downturn. In 2009, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $69 million, including $7 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations and $2 million of charges to selling, general and administrative expenses for transaction costs related to the acquisitions of Biolab and B.R.A.H.M.S. on April 30, and October 1, 2009, respectively, offset in part by a gain primarily for settlement of certain pre merger Fisher product liability related matters. The company incurred $62 million of cash costs, primarily for actions in response to the downturn in the economy and reduced revenues, including severance to reduce headcount at several businesses and abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also incurred a $2 million loss on an abandoned facility held for sale that was sold in July 2009 and a $3 million charge Financial Statement Index 39 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) for pension termination benefits, offset by a $7 million gain on the settlement of a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher in 2006 (Note 14). In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. As of February 26, 2010, the company has identified restructuring actions that will result in additional charges of approximately $38 million in 2010 and expects to identify additional actions during 2010. The restructuring actions initiated in 2009 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $107 million, including $59 million for actions taken through the end of 2009 and $48 million for actions that have been approved and will be completed in 2010. Of the $107 million of total savings, $63 million is in the Analytical Technologies segment and $44 million is in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The restructuring actions initiated in 2008 resulted in annual cost savings beginning in the second half of 2008 and early 2009 of approximately $34 million, including $26 million in the Analytical Technologies segment and $8 million in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The companys revenues and profitability decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 although results progressively improved during 2009. The company believes the decreases were primarily due to the global economic downturn. There can be no assurance that indicators of economic recovery will continue into 2010 and that a prolonged downturn will not affect the companys projections of profitability for 2010 and future years. If actual results decrease materially from projected results, impairment of goodwill and acquisition related intangible assets could occur. These assets totaled $8.98 billion and $6.34 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Segment Results The companys management evaluates segment operating performance using operating income before certain charges/credits to cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses, principally associated with acquisition accounting; restructuring and other costs/income including costs arising from facility consolidations such as severance and abandoned lease expense and gains and losses from the sale of real estate and product lines; and amortization of acquisition related intangible assets. The company uses these measures because it helps management understand and evaluate the segments core operating results and facilitate comparison of performance for determining compensation (Note 3). Accordingly, the following segment data is reported on this basis. Financial Statement Index 40 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Laboratory Products and Services 6,426.6 6,455.2 0% Eliminations (470.8 ) (425.8 ) 11% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,109.7 $ 10,498.0 (4)% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 837.3 $ 955.3 (12)% Laboratory Products and Services 877.6 913.8 (4)% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,714.9 1,869.1 (8)% Cost of Revenues Charges (6.7 ) (1.5 ) Selling, General and Administrative Charges, Net (1.5 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (60.8 ) (35.4 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (597.0 ) (602.8 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,048.9 $ 1,229.4 (15)% Income from the companys reportable segments decreased 8% to $1.71 billion in 2009 due primarily to lower profitability at existing businesses, resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The company also refers to this measure as adjusted operating income. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Operating Income Margin 20.2% 21.4% (1.2) Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment decreased $315 million to $4.15 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenue of $92 million in 2009. Sales increased $44 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $267 million (6%) primarily due to lower demand offset in part by increased prices. Demand in industrial markets for environmental and process control instruments was particularly weak, which the company believes was due to the global economic downturn. The decrease in sales of these products was offset in part by higher demand for bioscience offerings and diagnostic products, including flu tests. Operating income margin was 20.2% in 2009 and 21.4% in 2008. The decrease resulted from lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Financial Statement Index 41 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 6,426.6 $ 6,455.2 0% Operating Income Margin 13.7% 14.2% (0.5) Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment decreased $29 million to $6.43 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $128 million in 2009. Sales increased $121 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $22 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of products purchased from a supplier discussed below, offset in part by increased prices. Demand for laboratory equipment was weak as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global economic downturn, however, this was more than offset by higher demand for products purchased through the companys research market and healthcare market channels. In July 2008, the company and a significant supplier of its healthcare market channel extended an existing agreement for two years through 2010. Under the revised agreement, the companys revenues from the sale of products purchased from the supplier decreased $61 million in 2009 to $205 million. In November 2009, the supplier notified the company that it intended to cease the current arrangement. The company believes this was in part a response to the companys strategic decision to expand its product offerings to provide its customers with a broader menu of diagnostic solutions. As a result of the supplier terminating this agreement, the company expects sales of related products to be approximately $75 million in 2010 and none thereafter. The company has signed an agreement with an alternative supplier of laboratory products and expects to sell approximately $40 million of these and other products from the new supplier in 2010, offsetting a portion of the anticipated drop in revenue. Operating income margin decreased to 13.7% in 2009 from 14.2% in 2008, primarily due to lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $122 million and $101 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively (Note 4). Interest income decreased to $16 million in 2009 from $52 million in 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates on invested cash balances. Interest expense decreased to $118 million from $152 million in 2008 primarily as a result of a reduction in average debt and lower interest rates on variable rate debt. In 2009, other expense, net, includes a $15 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt (Note 9). Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rates were 8.2% and 13.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reduced earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of newly enacted tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2010 will be between 17% and 19% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Financial Statement Index 42 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Contingent Liabilities At the end of 2009, the company was contingently liable with respect to certain legal proceedings and related matters. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the matters described under Litigation and Related Contingencies in Note 10 could materially affect the companys financial position as well as its results of operations and cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued a pronouncement concerning fair value measurement accounting. This guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The rule applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for the companys monetary assets and liabilities in the first quarter of 2008 and for non financial assets and liabilities beginning January 1, 2009. There was no material effect from adoption. In December 2007, the FASB revised the accounting rules concerning business combinations. This revised guidance does the following: requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose certain information to enable users to understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The rules require that cash outflows such as transaction costs and post acquisition restructuring be charged to expense instead of capitalized as a cost of the acquisition. Contingent purchase price is recorded at its initial fair value and then re measured periodically through adjustments to net income. The revised guidance was effective for the company, on a prospective basis, beginning January 1, 2009. There was no impact upon adoption; however, the rule changes may materially affect the accounting for any future business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued new rules on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The noncontrolling interest guidance changed the accounting for minority interests, which are reclassified as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In March 2008, the FASB issued a pronouncement pertaining to disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance requires disclosures of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The rule was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no material effect from adoption. In May 2008, the FASB issued new rules on the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement of such debt instruments. The rules require the issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The new guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rules required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. The companys cash payments for interest have not been affected, but adoption increased the companys reported interest expense for all periods presented in a manner that reflects interest rates of similar non convertible debt. Interest expense in 2008 and 2007, as adjusted for adoption of this rule, increased $22 million and $21 million, respectively, over the previously reported amounts. Financial Statement Index 43 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities. This guidance clarifies that share based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. The guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rule required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. Adoption had a nominal effect on the numerator and, for diluted presentation, the denominator in the calculation of earnings per share for all periods presented. In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires additional disclosures about an employers plan assets of defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. This rule expands current disclosures of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets to include information regarding the fair value measurements of plan assets. The guidance was effective for the company beginning in January 2009 and the additional disclosures have been made. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This guidance amends the prior other than temporary impairment guidance for certain debt securities and will require the investor to assess the likelihood of selling the debt security prior to recovery of its cost basis. If an investor is able to meet the criteria to assert that it does not intend to sell the debt security and more likely than not will not be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, impairment charges related to credit losses would be recognized in earnings whereas impairment charges related to non credit losses would be reflected in other comprehensive income. The company elected early adoption of this rule in the first quarter of 2009. Adoption did not materially affect the companys financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on providing interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This new guidance requires the fair value disclosures that were previously disclosed only annually to be disclosed now on an interim basis. This guidance was effective for the company in the second quarter of 2009, and the additional disclosures have been made. In May 2009, the FASB issued a pronouncement on subsequent event accounting that establishes the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. The pronouncement was effective for the companys second quarter 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification, is the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of the Codification had no impact on the companys financial position or results of operations. In September 2009, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued new rules pertaining to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple customer deliverables and for software enabled products. The new rule pertaining to arrangements under which the company has multiple customer deliverables provides an alternative method for establishing the fair value of a deliverable when vendor specific objective evidence does not exist. The guidance requires the determination of the best estimate of selling price to separate deliverables and allows the allocation of the customers consideration using this relative Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (k) Restructuring Costs The company records restructuring charges for the cost of vacating facilities based on future lease obligations net of expected sub rental income. The companys accrued restructuring costs for abandoned facilities totaled $7 million at December 31, 2009. Should actual cash flows associated with sub rental income from vacated facilities vary from estimated amounts, adjustments may be required. (l) Assets Held for Sale The company estimates the expected proceeds from any assets held for sale and, when necessary, records losses to reduce the carrying value of these assets to estimated realizable value. Should the actual or estimated proceeds, which would include post closing purchase price adjustments, vary from current estimates, results could differ from expected amounts. Results of Operations 2009 Compared With 2008 Continuing Operations Sales in 2009 were $10.11 billion, a decrease of $388 million from 2008. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $211 million in 2009. Sales increased $165 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effects of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $342 million (3%) primarily a result of decreased demand which the company believes was due to economic uncertainty offset in part by price increases, as described by segment below. Sales of equipment and, to a lesser extent, services were particularly affected as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global market downturn. Sales of consumables grew modestly, however, and were not as significantly affected by the severe economic conditions. Sales were down in North America and Europe but grew modestly in Asia. In the latter part of 2009, the dollar weakened against other major currencies in which the company sells products and services. Weakening of the dollar had a favorable effect on revenues of the company of approximately 3% in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared with the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2009, operating income and operating income margin were $1.05 billion and 10.4%, respectively, compared with $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, in 2008. The decrease in operating income was due to lower profitability at existing businesses resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. In addition, restructuring and other costs increased $32 million in 2009 due primarily to a pension plan curtailment gain in the 2008 period and, to a lesser extent, increased cost reduction measures in 2009 due to the economic downturn. In 2009, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $69 million, including $7 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations and $2 million of charges to selling, general and administrative expenses for transaction costs related to the acquisitions of Biolab and B.R.A.H.M.S. on April 30, and October 1, 2009, respectively, offset in part by a gain primarily for settlement of certain pre merger Fisher product liability related matters. The company incurred $62 million of cash costs, primarily for actions in response to the downturn in the economy and reduced revenues, including severance to reduce headcount at several businesses and abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also incurred a $2 million loss on an abandoned facility held for sale that was sold in July 2009 and a $3 million charge Financial Statement Index 39 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) for pension termination benefits, offset by a $7 million gain on the settlement of a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher in 2006 (Note 14). In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. As of February 26, 2010, the company has identified restructuring actions that will result in additional charges of approximately $38 million in 2010 and expects to identify additional actions during 2010. The restructuring actions initiated in 2009 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $107 million, including $59 million for actions taken through the end of 2009 and $48 million for actions that have been approved and will be completed in 2010. Of the $107 million of total savings, $63 million is in the Analytical Technologies segment and $44 million is in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The restructuring actions initiated in 2008 resulted in annual cost savings beginning in the second half of 2008 and early 2009 of approximately $34 million, including $26 million in the Analytical Technologies segment and $8 million in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The companys revenues and profitability decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 although results progressively improved during 2009. The company believes the decreases were primarily due to the global economic downturn. There can be no assurance that indicators of economic recovery will continue into 2010 and that a prolonged downturn will not affect the companys projections of profitability for 2010 and future years. If actual results decrease materially from projected results, impairment of goodwill and acquisition related intangible assets could occur. These assets totaled $8.98 billion and $6.34 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Segment Results The companys management evaluates segment operating performance using operating income before certain charges/credits to cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses, principally associated with acquisition accounting; restructuring and other costs/income including costs arising from facility consolidations such as severance and abandoned lease expense and gains and losses from the sale of real estate and product lines; and amortization of acquisition related intangible assets. The company uses these measures because it helps management understand and evaluate the segments core operating results and facilitate comparison of performance for determining compensation (Note 3). Accordingly, the following segment data is reported on this basis. Financial Statement Index 40 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Laboratory Products and Services 6,426.6 6,455.2 0% Eliminations (470.8 ) (425.8 ) 11% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,109.7 $ 10,498.0 (4)% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 837.3 $ 955.3 (12)% Laboratory Products and Services 877.6 913.8 (4)% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,714.9 1,869.1 (8)% Cost of Revenues Charges (6.7 ) (1.5 ) Selling, General and Administrative Charges, Net (1.5 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (60.8 ) (35.4 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (597.0 ) (602.8 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,048.9 $ 1,229.4 (15)% Income from the companys reportable segments decreased 8% to $1.71 billion in 2009 due primarily to lower profitability at existing businesses, resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The company also refers to this measure as adjusted operating income. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Operating Income Margin 20.2% 21.4% (1.2) Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment decreased $315 million to $4.15 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenue of $92 million in 2009. Sales increased $44 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $267 million (6%) primarily due to lower demand offset in part by increased prices. Demand in industrial markets for environmental and process control instruments was particularly weak, which the company believes was due to the global economic downturn. The decrease in sales of these products was offset in part by higher demand for bioscience offerings and diagnostic products, including flu tests. Operating income margin was 20.2% in 2009 and 21.4% in 2008. The decrease resulted from lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Financial Statement Index 41 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 6,426.6 $ 6,455.2 0% Operating Income Margin 13.7% 14.2% (0.5) Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment decreased $29 million to $6.43 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $128 million in 2009. Sales increased $121 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $22 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of products purchased from a supplier discussed below, offset in part by increased prices. Demand for laboratory equipment was weak as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global economic downturn, however, this was more than offset by higher demand for products purchased through the companys research market and healthcare market channels. In July 2008, the company and a significant supplier of its healthcare market channel extended an existing agreement for two years through 2010. Under the revised agreement, the companys revenues from the sale of products purchased from the supplier decreased $61 million in 2009 to $205 million. In November 2009, the supplier notified the company that it intended to cease the current arrangement. The company believes this was in part a response to the companys strategic decision to expand its product offerings to provide its customers with a broader menu of diagnostic solutions. As a result of the supplier terminating this agreement, the company expects sales of related products to be approximately $75 million in 2010 and none thereafter. The company has signed an agreement with an alternative supplier of laboratory products and expects to sell approximately $40 million of these and other products from the new supplier in 2010, offsetting a portion of the anticipated drop in revenue. Operating income margin decreased to 13.7% in 2009 from 14.2% in 2008, primarily due to lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $122 million and $101 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively (Note 4). Interest income decreased to $16 million in 2009 from $52 million in 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates on invested cash balances. Interest expense decreased to $118 million from $152 million in 2008 primarily as a result of a reduction in average debt and lower interest rates on variable rate debt. In 2009, other expense, net, includes a $15 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt (Note 9). Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rates were 8.2% and 13.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reduced earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of newly enacted tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2010 will be between 17% and 19% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Financial Statement Index 42 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Contingent Liabilities At the end of 2009, the company was contingently liable with respect to certain legal proceedings and related matters. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the matters described under Litigation and Related Contingencies in Note 10 could materially affect the companys financial position as well as its results of operations and cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued a pronouncement concerning fair value measurement accounting. This guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The rule applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for the companys monetary assets and liabilities in the first quarter of 2008 and for non financial assets and liabilities beginning January 1, 2009. There was no material effect from adoption. In December 2007, the FASB revised the accounting rules concerning business combinations. This revised guidance does the following: requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose certain information to enable users to understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The rules require that cash outflows such as transaction costs and post acquisition restructuring be charged to expense instead of capitalized as a cost of the acquisition. Contingent purchase price is recorded at its initial fair value and then re measured periodically through adjustments to net income. The revised guidance was effective for the company, on a prospective basis, beginning January 1, 2009. There was no impact upon adoption; however, the rule changes may materially affect the accounting for any future business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued new rules on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The noncontrolling interest guidance changed the accounting for minority interests, which are reclassified as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In March 2008, the FASB issued a pronouncement pertaining to disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance requires disclosures of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The rule was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no material effect from adoption. In May 2008, the FASB issued new rules on the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement of such debt instruments. The rules require the issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The new guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rules required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. The companys cash payments for interest have not been affected, but adoption increased the companys reported interest expense for all periods presented in a manner that reflects interest rates of similar non convertible debt. Interest expense in 2008 and 2007, as adjusted for adoption of this rule, increased $22 million and $21 million, respectively, over the previously reported amounts. Financial Statement Index 43 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities. This guidance clarifies that share based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. The guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rule required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. Adoption had a nominal effect on the numerator and, for diluted presentation, the denominator in the calculation of earnings per share for all periods presented. In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires additional disclosures about an employers plan assets of defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. This rule expands current disclosures of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets to include information regarding the fair value measurements of plan assets. The guidance was effective for the company beginning in January 2009 and the additional disclosures have been made. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This guidance amends the prior other than temporary impairment guidance for certain debt securities and will require the investor to assess the likelihood of selling the debt security prior to recovery of its cost basis. If an investor is able to meet the criteria to assert that it does not intend to sell the debt security and more likely than not will not be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, impairment charges related to credit losses would be recognized in earnings whereas impairment charges related to non credit losses would be reflected in other comprehensive income. The company elected early adoption of this rule in the first quarter of 2009. Adoption did not materially affect the companys financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on providing interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This new guidance requires the fair value disclosures that were previously disclosed only annually to be disclosed now on an interim basis. This guidance was effective for the company in the second quarter of 2009, and the additional disclosures have been made. In May 2009, the FASB issued a pronouncement on subsequent event accounting that establishes the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. The pronouncement was effective for the companys second quarter 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification, is the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of the Codification had no impact on the companys financial position or results of operations. In September 2009, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued new rules pertaining to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple customer deliverables and for software enabled products. The new rule pertaining to arrangements under which the company has multiple customer deliverables provides an alternative method for establishing the fair value of a deliverable when vendor specific objective evidence does not exist. The guidance requires the determination of the best estimate of selling price to separate deliverables and allows the allocation of the customers consideration using this relative Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) for pension termination benefits, offset by a $7 million gain on the settlement of a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher in 2006 (Note 14). In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. As of February 26, 2010, the company has identified restructuring actions that will result in additional charges of approximately $38 million in 2010 and expects to identify additional actions during 2010. The restructuring actions initiated in 2009 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $107 million, including $59 million for actions taken through the end of 2009 and $48 million for actions that have been approved and will be completed in 2010. Of the $107 million of total savings, $63 million is in the Analytical Technologies segment and $44 million is in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The restructuring actions initiated in 2008 resulted in annual cost savings beginning in the second half of 2008 and early 2009 of approximately $34 million, including $26 million in the Analytical Technologies segment and $8 million in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The companys revenues and profitability decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 although results progressively improved during 2009. The company believes the decreases were primarily due to the global economic downturn. There can be no assurance that indicators of economic recovery will continue into 2010 and that a prolonged downturn will not affect the companys projections of profitability for 2010 and future years. If actual results decrease materially from projected results, impairment of goodwill and acquisition related intangible assets could occur. These assets totaled $8.98 billion and $6.34 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Segment Results The companys management evaluates segment operating performance using operating income before certain charges/credits to cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses, principally associated with acquisition accounting; restructuring and other costs/income including costs arising from facility consolidations such as severance and abandoned lease expense and gains and losses from the sale of real estate and product lines; and amortization of acquisition related intangible assets. The company uses these measures because it helps management understand and evaluate the segments core operating results and facilitate comparison of performance for determining compensation (Note 3). Accordingly, the following segment data is reported on this basis. Financial Statement Index 40 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Laboratory Products and Services 6,426.6 6,455.2 0% Eliminations (470.8 ) (425.8 ) 11% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,109.7 $ 10,498.0 (4)% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 837.3 $ 955.3 (12)% Laboratory Products and Services 877.6 913.8 (4)% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,714.9 1,869.1 (8)% Cost of Revenues Charges (6.7 ) (1.5 ) Selling, General and Administrative Charges, Net (1.5 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (60.8 ) (35.4 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (597.0 ) (602.8 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,048.9 $ 1,229.4 (15)% Income from the companys reportable segments decreased 8% to $1.71 billion in 2009 due primarily to lower profitability at existing businesses, resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The company also refers to this measure as adjusted operating income. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Operating Income Margin 20.2% 21.4% (1.2) Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment decreased $315 million to $4.15 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenue of $92 million in 2009. Sales increased $44 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $267 million (6%) primarily due to lower demand offset in part by increased prices. Demand in industrial markets for environmental and process control instruments was particularly weak, which the company believes was due to the global economic downturn. The decrease in sales of these products was offset in part by higher demand for bioscience offerings and diagnostic products, including flu tests. Operating income margin was 20.2% in 2009 and 21.4% in 2008. The decrease resulted from lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Financial Statement Index 41 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 6,426.6 $ 6,455.2 0% Operating Income Margin 13.7% 14.2% (0.5) Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment decreased $29 million to $6.43 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $128 million in 2009. Sales increased $121 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $22 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of products purchased from a supplier discussed below, offset in part by increased prices. Demand for laboratory equipment was weak as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global economic downturn, however, this was more than offset by higher demand for products purchased through the companys research market and healthcare market channels. In July 2008, the company and a significant supplier of its healthcare market channel extended an existing agreement for two years through 2010. Under the revised agreement, the companys revenues from the sale of products purchased from the supplier decreased $61 million in 2009 to $205 million. In November 2009, the supplier notified the company that it intended to cease the current arrangement. The company believes this was in part a response to the companys strategic decision to expand its product offerings to provide its customers with a broader menu of diagnostic solutions. As a result of the supplier terminating this agreement, the company expects sales of related products to be approximately $75 million in 2010 and none thereafter. The company has signed an agreement with an alternative supplier of laboratory products and expects to sell approximately $40 million of these and other products from the new supplier in 2010, offsetting a portion of the anticipated drop in revenue. Operating income margin decreased to 13.7% in 2009 from 14.2% in 2008, primarily due to lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $122 million and $101 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively (Note 4). Interest income decreased to $16 million in 2009 from $52 million in 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates on invested cash balances. Interest expense decreased to $118 million from $152 million in 2008 primarily as a result of a reduction in average debt and lower interest rates on variable rate debt. In 2009, other expense, net, includes a $15 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt (Note 9). Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rates were 8.2% and 13.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reduced earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of newly enacted tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2010 will be between 17% and 19% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Financial Statement Index 42 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Contingent Liabilities At the end of 2009, the company was contingently liable with respect to certain legal proceedings and related matters. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the matters described under Litigation and Related Contingencies in Note 10 could materially affect the companys financial position as well as its results of operations and cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued a pronouncement concerning fair value measurement accounting. This guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The rule applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for the companys monetary assets and liabilities in the first quarter of 2008 and for non financial assets and liabilities beginning January 1, 2009. There was no material effect from adoption. In December 2007, the FASB revised the accounting rules concerning business combinations. This revised guidance does the following: requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose certain information to enable users to understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The rules require that cash outflows such as transaction costs and post acquisition restructuring be charged to expense instead of capitalized as a cost of the acquisition. Contingent purchase price is recorded at its initial fair value and then re measured periodically through adjustments to net income. The revised guidance was effective for the company, on a prospective basis, beginning January 1, 2009. There was no impact upon adoption; however, the rule changes may materially affect the accounting for any future business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued new rules on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The noncontrolling interest guidance changed the accounting for minority interests, which are reclassified as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In March 2008, the FASB issued a pronouncement pertaining to disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance requires disclosures of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The rule was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no material effect from adoption. In May 2008, the FASB issued new rules on the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement of such debt instruments. The rules require the issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The new guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rules required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. The companys cash payments for interest have not been affected, but adoption increased the companys reported interest expense for all periods presented in a manner that reflects interest rates of similar non convertible debt. Interest expense in 2008 and 2007, as adjusted for adoption of this rule, increased $22 million and $21 million, respectively, over the previously reported amounts. Financial Statement Index 43 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities. This guidance clarifies that share based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. The guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rule required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. Adoption had a nominal effect on the numerator and, for diluted presentation, the denominator in the calculation of earnings per share for all periods presented. In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires additional disclosures about an employers plan assets of defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. This rule expands current disclosures of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets to include information regarding the fair value measurements of plan assets. The guidance was effective for the company beginning in January 2009 and the additional disclosures have been made. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This guidance amends the prior other than temporary impairment guidance for certain debt securities and will require the investor to assess the likelihood of selling the debt security prior to recovery of its cost basis. If an investor is able to meet the criteria to assert that it does not intend to sell the debt security and more likely than not will not be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, impairment charges related to credit losses would be recognized in earnings whereas impairment charges related to non credit losses would be reflected in other comprehensive income. The company elected early adoption of this rule in the first quarter of 2009. Adoption did not materially affect the companys financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on providing interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This new guidance requires the fair value disclosures that were previously disclosed only annually to be disclosed now on an interim basis. This guidance was effective for the company in the second quarter of 2009, and the additional disclosures have been made. In May 2009, the FASB issued a pronouncement on subsequent event accounting that establishes the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. The pronouncement was effective for the companys second quarter 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification, is the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of the Codification had no impact on the companys financial position or results of operations. In September 2009, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued new rules pertaining to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple customer deliverables and for software enabled products. The new rule pertaining to arrangements under which the company has multiple customer deliverables provides an alternative method for establishing the fair value of a deliverable when vendor specific objective evidence does not exist. The guidance requires the determination of the best estimate of selling price to separate deliverables and allows the allocation of the customers consideration using this relative Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Laboratory Products and Services 6,426.6 6,455.2 0% Eliminations (470.8 ) (425.8 ) 11% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,109.7 $ 10,498.0 (4)% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 837.3 $ 955.3 (12)% Laboratory Products and Services 877.6 913.8 (4)% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,714.9 1,869.1 (8)% Cost of Revenues Charges (6.7 ) (1.5 ) Selling, General and Administrative Charges, Net (1.5 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (60.8 ) (35.4 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (597.0 ) (602.8 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,048.9 $ 1,229.4 (15)% Income from the companys reportable segments decreased 8% to $1.71 billion in 2009 due primarily to lower profitability at existing businesses, resulting from decreased revenues offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The company also refers to this measure as adjusted operating income. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 4,153.9 $ 4,468.6 (7)% Operating Income Margin 20.2% 21.4% (1.2) Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment decreased $315 million to $4.15 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenue of $92 million in 2009. Sales increased $44 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $267 million (6%) primarily due to lower demand offset in part by increased prices. Demand in industrial markets for environmental and process control instruments was particularly weak, which the company believes was due to the global economic downturn. The decrease in sales of these products was offset in part by higher demand for bioscience offerings and diagnostic products, including flu tests. Operating income margin was 20.2% in 2009 and 21.4% in 2008. The decrease resulted from lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Financial Statement Index 41 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 6,426.6 $ 6,455.2 0% Operating Income Margin 13.7% 14.2% (0.5) Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment decreased $29 million to $6.43 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $128 million in 2009. Sales increased $121 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $22 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of products purchased from a supplier discussed below, offset in part by increased prices. Demand for laboratory equipment was weak as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global economic downturn, however, this was more than offset by higher demand for products purchased through the companys research market and healthcare market channels. In July 2008, the company and a significant supplier of its healthcare market channel extended an existing agreement for two years through 2010. Under the revised agreement, the companys revenues from the sale of products purchased from the supplier decreased $61 million in 2009 to $205 million. In November 2009, the supplier notified the company that it intended to cease the current arrangement. The company believes this was in part a response to the companys strategic decision to expand its product offerings to provide its customers with a broader menu of diagnostic solutions. As a result of the supplier terminating this agreement, the company expects sales of related products to be approximately $75 million in 2010 and none thereafter. The company has signed an agreement with an alternative supplier of laboratory products and expects to sell approximately $40 million of these and other products from the new supplier in 2010, offsetting a portion of the anticipated drop in revenue. Operating income margin decreased to 13.7% in 2009 from 14.2% in 2008, primarily due to lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $122 million and $101 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively (Note 4). Interest income decreased to $16 million in 2009 from $52 million in 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates on invested cash balances. Interest expense decreased to $118 million from $152 million in 2008 primarily as a result of a reduction in average debt and lower interest rates on variable rate debt. In 2009, other expense, net, includes a $15 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt (Note 9). Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rates were 8.2% and 13.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reduced earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of newly enacted tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2010 will be between 17% and 19% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Financial Statement Index 42 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Contingent Liabilities At the end of 2009, the company was contingently liable with respect to certain legal proceedings and related matters. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the matters described under Litigation and Related Contingencies in Note 10 could materially affect the companys financial position as well as its results of operations and cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued a pronouncement concerning fair value measurement accounting. This guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The rule applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for the companys monetary assets and liabilities in the first quarter of 2008 and for non financial assets and liabilities beginning January 1, 2009. There was no material effect from adoption. In December 2007, the FASB revised the accounting rules concerning business combinations. This revised guidance does the following: requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose certain information to enable users to understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The rules require that cash outflows such as transaction costs and post acquisition restructuring be charged to expense instead of capitalized as a cost of the acquisition. Contingent purchase price is recorded at its initial fair value and then re measured periodically through adjustments to net income. The revised guidance was effective for the company, on a prospective basis, beginning January 1, 2009. There was no impact upon adoption; however, the rule changes may materially affect the accounting for any future business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued new rules on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The noncontrolling interest guidance changed the accounting for minority interests, which are reclassified as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In March 2008, the FASB issued a pronouncement pertaining to disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance requires disclosures of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The rule was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no material effect from adoption. In May 2008, the FASB issued new rules on the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement of such debt instruments. The rules require the issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The new guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rules required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. The companys cash payments for interest have not been affected, but adoption increased the companys reported interest expense for all periods presented in a manner that reflects interest rates of similar non convertible debt. Interest expense in 2008 and 2007, as adjusted for adoption of this rule, increased $22 million and $21 million, respectively, over the previously reported amounts. Financial Statement Index 43 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities. This guidance clarifies that share based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. The guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rule required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. Adoption had a nominal effect on the numerator and, for diluted presentation, the denominator in the calculation of earnings per share for all periods presented. In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires additional disclosures about an employers plan assets of defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. This rule expands current disclosures of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets to include information regarding the fair value measurements of plan assets. The guidance was effective for the company beginning in January 2009 and the additional disclosures have been made. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This guidance amends the prior other than temporary impairment guidance for certain debt securities and will require the investor to assess the likelihood of selling the debt security prior to recovery of its cost basis. If an investor is able to meet the criteria to assert that it does not intend to sell the debt security and more likely than not will not be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, impairment charges related to credit losses would be recognized in earnings whereas impairment charges related to non credit losses would be reflected in other comprehensive income. The company elected early adoption of this rule in the first quarter of 2009. Adoption did not materially affect the companys financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on providing interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This new guidance requires the fair value disclosures that were previously disclosed only annually to be disclosed now on an interim basis. This guidance was effective for the company in the second quarter of 2009, and the additional disclosures have been made. In May 2009, the FASB issued a pronouncement on subsequent event accounting that establishes the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. The pronouncement was effective for the companys second quarter 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification, is the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of the Codification had no impact on the companys financial position or results of operations. In September 2009, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued new rules pertaining to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple customer deliverables and for software enabled products. The new rule pertaining to arrangements under which the company has multiple customer deliverables provides an alternative method for establishing the fair value of a deliverable when vendor specific objective evidence does not exist. The guidance requires the determination of the best estimate of selling price to separate deliverables and allows the allocation of the customers consideration using this relative Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenues $ 6,426.6 $ 6,455.2 0% Operating Income Margin 13.7% 14.2% (0.5) Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment decreased $29 million to $6.43 billion in 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $128 million in 2009. Sales increased $121 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $22 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of products purchased from a supplier discussed below, offset in part by increased prices. Demand for laboratory equipment was weak as the company believes customers reduced purchases due to the global economic downturn, however, this was more than offset by higher demand for products purchased through the companys research market and healthcare market channels. In July 2008, the company and a significant supplier of its healthcare market channel extended an existing agreement for two years through 2010. Under the revised agreement, the companys revenues from the sale of products purchased from the supplier decreased $61 million in 2009 to $205 million. In November 2009, the supplier notified the company that it intended to cease the current arrangement. The company believes this was in part a response to the companys strategic decision to expand its product offerings to provide its customers with a broader menu of diagnostic solutions. As a result of the supplier terminating this agreement, the company expects sales of related products to be approximately $75 million in 2010 and none thereafter. The company has signed an agreement with an alternative supplier of laboratory products and expects to sell approximately $40 million of these and other products from the new supplier in 2010, offsetting a portion of the anticipated drop in revenue. Operating income margin decreased to 13.7% in 2009 from 14.2% in 2008, primarily due to lower profitability from decreased revenues, offset in part by price increases and productivity improvements, including lower operating costs following restructuring actions and global sourcing initiatives. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $122 million and $101 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively (Note 4). Interest income decreased to $16 million in 2009 from $52 million in 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates on invested cash balances. Interest expense decreased to $118 million from $152 million in 2008 primarily as a result of a reduction in average debt and lower interest rates on variable rate debt. In 2009, other expense, net, includes a $15 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt (Note 9). Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rates were 8.2% and 13.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reduced earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of newly enacted tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2010 will be between 17% and 19% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Financial Statement Index 42 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Contingent Liabilities At the end of 2009, the company was contingently liable with respect to certain legal proceedings and related matters. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the matters described under Litigation and Related Contingencies in Note 10 could materially affect the companys financial position as well as its results of operations and cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued a pronouncement concerning fair value measurement accounting. This guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The rule applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for the companys monetary assets and liabilities in the first quarter of 2008 and for non financial assets and liabilities beginning January 1, 2009. There was no material effect from adoption. In December 2007, the FASB revised the accounting rules concerning business combinations. This revised guidance does the following: requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose certain information to enable users to understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The rules require that cash outflows such as transaction costs and post acquisition restructuring be charged to expense instead of capitalized as a cost of the acquisition. Contingent purchase price is recorded at its initial fair value and then re measured periodically through adjustments to net income. The revised guidance was effective for the company, on a prospective basis, beginning January 1, 2009. There was no impact upon adoption; however, the rule changes may materially affect the accounting for any future business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued new rules on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The noncontrolling interest guidance changed the accounting for minority interests, which are reclassified as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In March 2008, the FASB issued a pronouncement pertaining to disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance requires disclosures of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The rule was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no material effect from adoption. In May 2008, the FASB issued new rules on the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement of such debt instruments. The rules require the issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The new guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rules required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. The companys cash payments for interest have not been affected, but adoption increased the companys reported interest expense for all periods presented in a manner that reflects interest rates of similar non convertible debt. Interest expense in 2008 and 2007, as adjusted for adoption of this rule, increased $22 million and $21 million, respectively, over the previously reported amounts. Financial Statement Index 43 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities. This guidance clarifies that share based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. The guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rule required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. Adoption had a nominal effect on the numerator and, for diluted presentation, the denominator in the calculation of earnings per share for all periods presented. In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires additional disclosures about an employers plan assets of defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. This rule expands current disclosures of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets to include information regarding the fair value measurements of plan assets. The guidance was effective for the company beginning in January 2009 and the additional disclosures have been made. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This guidance amends the prior other than temporary impairment guidance for certain debt securities and will require the investor to assess the likelihood of selling the debt security prior to recovery of its cost basis. If an investor is able to meet the criteria to assert that it does not intend to sell the debt security and more likely than not will not be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, impairment charges related to credit losses would be recognized in earnings whereas impairment charges related to non credit losses would be reflected in other comprehensive income. The company elected early adoption of this rule in the first quarter of 2009. Adoption did not materially affect the companys financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on providing interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This new guidance requires the fair value disclosures that were previously disclosed only annually to be disclosed now on an interim basis. This guidance was effective for the company in the second quarter of 2009, and the additional disclosures have been made. In May 2009, the FASB issued a pronouncement on subsequent event accounting that establishes the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. The pronouncement was effective for the companys second quarter 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification, is the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of the Codification had no impact on the companys financial position or results of operations. In September 2009, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued new rules pertaining to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple customer deliverables and for software enabled products. The new rule pertaining to arrangements under which the company has multiple customer deliverables provides an alternative method for establishing the fair value of a deliverable when vendor specific objective evidence does not exist. The guidance requires the determination of the best estimate of selling price to separate deliverables and allows the allocation of the customers consideration using this relative Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Contingent Liabilities At the end of 2009, the company was contingently liable with respect to certain legal proceedings and related matters. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the matters described under Litigation and Related Contingencies in Note 10 could materially affect the companys financial position as well as its results of operations and cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued a pronouncement concerning fair value measurement accounting. This guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The rule applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for the companys monetary assets and liabilities in the first quarter of 2008 and for non financial assets and liabilities beginning January 1, 2009. There was no material effect from adoption. In December 2007, the FASB revised the accounting rules concerning business combinations. This revised guidance does the following: requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose certain information to enable users to understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The rules require that cash outflows such as transaction costs and post acquisition restructuring be charged to expense instead of capitalized as a cost of the acquisition. Contingent purchase price is recorded at its initial fair value and then re measured periodically through adjustments to net income. The revised guidance was effective for the company, on a prospective basis, beginning January 1, 2009. There was no impact upon adoption; however, the rule changes may materially affect the accounting for any future business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued new rules on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The noncontrolling interest guidance changed the accounting for minority interests, which are reclassified as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In March 2008, the FASB issued a pronouncement pertaining to disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance requires disclosures of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The rule was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009, and there was no material effect from adoption. In May 2008, the FASB issued new rules on the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement of such debt instruments. The rules require the issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The new guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rules required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. The companys cash payments for interest have not been affected, but adoption increased the companys reported interest expense for all periods presented in a manner that reflects interest rates of similar non convertible debt. Interest expense in 2008 and 2007, as adjusted for adoption of this rule, increased $22 million and $21 million, respectively, over the previously reported amounts. Financial Statement Index 43 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities. This guidance clarifies that share based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. The guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rule required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. Adoption had a nominal effect on the numerator and, for diluted presentation, the denominator in the calculation of earnings per share for all periods presented. In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires additional disclosures about an employers plan assets of defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. This rule expands current disclosures of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets to include information regarding the fair value measurements of plan assets. The guidance was effective for the company beginning in January 2009 and the additional disclosures have been made. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This guidance amends the prior other than temporary impairment guidance for certain debt securities and will require the investor to assess the likelihood of selling the debt security prior to recovery of its cost basis. If an investor is able to meet the criteria to assert that it does not intend to sell the debt security and more likely than not will not be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, impairment charges related to credit losses would be recognized in earnings whereas impairment charges related to non credit losses would be reflected in other comprehensive income. The company elected early adoption of this rule in the first quarter of 2009. Adoption did not materially affect the companys financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on providing interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This new guidance requires the fair value disclosures that were previously disclosed only annually to be disclosed now on an interim basis. This guidance was effective for the company in the second quarter of 2009, and the additional disclosures have been made. In May 2009, the FASB issued a pronouncement on subsequent event accounting that establishes the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. The pronouncement was effective for the companys second quarter 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification, is the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of the Codification had no impact on the companys financial position or results of operations. In September 2009, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued new rules pertaining to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple customer deliverables and for software enabled products. The new rule pertaining to arrangements under which the company has multiple customer deliverables provides an alternative method for establishing the fair value of a deliverable when vendor specific objective evidence does not exist. The guidance requires the determination of the best estimate of selling price to separate deliverables and allows the allocation of the customers consideration using this relative Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities. This guidance clarifies that share based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. The guidance was effective for the company beginning January 1, 2009. The rule required adjustment of prior periods to conform to current accounting. Adoption had a nominal effect on the numerator and, for diluted presentation, the denominator in the calculation of earnings per share for all periods presented. In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires additional disclosures about an employers plan assets of defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. This rule expands current disclosures of defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets to include information regarding the fair value measurements of plan assets. The guidance was effective for the company beginning in January 2009 and the additional disclosures have been made. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This guidance amends the prior other than temporary impairment guidance for certain debt securities and will require the investor to assess the likelihood of selling the debt security prior to recovery of its cost basis. If an investor is able to meet the criteria to assert that it does not intend to sell the debt security and more likely than not will not be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, impairment charges related to credit losses would be recognized in earnings whereas impairment charges related to non credit losses would be reflected in other comprehensive income. The company elected early adoption of this rule in the first quarter of 2009. Adoption did not materially affect the companys financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on providing interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This new guidance requires the fair value disclosures that were previously disclosed only annually to be disclosed now on an interim basis. This guidance was effective for the company in the second quarter of 2009, and the additional disclosures have been made. In May 2009, the FASB issued a pronouncement on subsequent event accounting that establishes the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. The pronouncement was effective for the companys second quarter 2009, and there was no effect from adoption. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification, is the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of the Codification had no impact on the companys financial position or results of operations. In September 2009, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued new rules pertaining to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple customer deliverables and for software enabled products. The new rule pertaining to arrangements under which the company has multiple customer deliverables provides an alternative method for establishing the fair value of a deliverable when vendor specific objective evidence does not exist. The guidance requires the determination of the best estimate of selling price to separate deliverables and allows the allocation of the customers consideration using this relative Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) selling price model. The new guidance pertaining to software enabled products revised the existing software accounting guidance to exclude equipment where the software is more than incidental to the value of the product. Upon adoption of the new standard, such equipment will be accounted for under revenue recognition criteria applicable to equipment instead of that applicable to software. Both of these new rules can be prospectively applied beginning January 1, 2011 or can be early or retrospectively adopted. The company expects to adopt both of these new rules effective January 1, 2010. Adoption of these new standards is not expected to materially affect the companys financial statements. Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. 2008 Compared With 2007 Continuing Operations Sales in 2008 were $10.50 billion, an increase of $752 million from 2007. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $113 million in 2008. Sales increased $186 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effect of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $453 million primarily due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, price increases, as described by segment below. Growth was very strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe although in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth slowed in Asia and improved in Europe. In the latter part of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other major currencies in which the company sells product and services. Strengthening of the dollar had a negative effect on the amount of revenues the company reported in U.S. dollars of approximately 4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, operating income and operating income margin were $1.23 billion and 11.7%, respectively, compared with $974 million and 10.0%, respectively, in 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher profitability at existing businesses resulting from incremental revenues including price increases, merger integration savings and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. The increase also resulted from $48 million of lower cost of revenues charges, primarily merger related, and from $7 million of lower restructuring and other costs in 2008, principally due to a curtailment gain in 2008 associated with a pension plan in the U.S. These increases were offset in part by a $32 million increase in amortization expense as a result of acquisition related intangible assets from 2007 and 2008 acquisitions. Restructuring and other costs were recorded during 2008 and 2007. In 2008, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $37 million, including $2 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations. The company incurred $38 million of cash costs primarily for severance to reduce headcount at several businesses in response to economic uncertainty and a decline in financial markets and for abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also recorded a $7 million charge for the impairment of acquisition related intangible assets associated with a small business unit acquired as part of Fisher, a $5 million loss from a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher, a $3 million net loss on the sale of businesses and a $3 million charge for in process research and development at an acquired business. These charges were offset by a $19 million gain on the curtailment of part of a pension plan in the U.S. In 2007, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $91 million, Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) including $49 million of charges to cost of revenues, substantially all related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition (principally Fisher). The company incurred $40 million of cash costs, primarily for severance, abandoned facilities and relocation expenses at businesses that have been consolidated. The company also recorded $2 million of loss on sale of a small business unit. The restructuring actions initiated in 2007 resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $11 million, primarily in the Analytical Technologies segment. Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Laboratory Products and Services 6,455.2 5,913.1 9% Eliminations (425.8 ) (345.8 ) 23% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,498.0 $ 9,746.4 8% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 955.3 $ 823.6 16% Laboratory Products and Services 913.8 813.3 12% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,869.1 1,636.9 14% Cost of Revenues Charges (1.5 ) (49.2 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (35.4 ) (42.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (602.8 ) (571.1 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,229.4 $ 974.4 26% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 14% to $1.87 billion in 2008 due primarily to higher profitability at existing businesses, resulting from incremental revenues including price increases and productivity improvements including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. This improvement was offset in part by higher commodity prices. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 4,468.6 $ 4,179.1 7% Operating Income Margin 21.4% 19.7% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $290 million to $4.47 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $74 million in 2008. Sales increased $42 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $174 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. The higher demand was due, in part, to the introduction of new products. Growth was particularly strong in sales of scientific instruments and specialty diagnostics. Sales growth slowed in the latter part of 2008 due to lower fourth quarter sales of environmental monitoring equipment and process instruments which were unfavorably affected by a downturn in industrial markets. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 21.4% in 2008 and 19.7% in 2007. The increase resulted from profit on incremental revenues and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 Change Revenues $ 6,455.2 $ 5,913.1 9% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 13.8% 0.4 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $542 million to $6.46 billion in 2008. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase of $39 million in 2008. Sales increased $163 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $340 million primarily due to higher demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Sales made through the segments research market and healthcare market channels and revenues from the companys biopharma services were particularly strong. These increases in revenue were offset in part by lower sales in early 2008 made through the segments safety market channel. The safety market channel sales are in part dependent on expenditures for homeland security that vary based on government spending priorities. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2008 from 13.8% in 2007, primarily due to profit on incremental revenue and, to a lesser extent, price increases and productivity improvements, including global sourcing and lower operating costs following restructuring actions, offset in part by the impact of inflation on commodities such as raw resin, steel and plastics as well as higher fuel and freight costs. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $101 million and $114 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other expense, net, includes interest income, interest expense, gain on investments, net, equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and other items, net. The decrease was primarily due to $9 million of lower interest expense as a result of reduced market rates on variable rate debt and redemption of $129 million of long term debt due in October 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 13.5% and 10.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The tax provision in 2008 was favorably affected by $28 million or 2.5 percentage points resulting from the impact on deferred tax balances of a change in the apportionment of state tax rates and newly enacted reductions in tax rates in Switzerland. Aside from the impact of these items, the tax rate was unfavorably affected by an increase in income in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2007 was favorably affected by $32 million or 3.7 percentage points resulting from enacted reductions in tax rates in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Canada and Germany on the companys deferred tax balances. Financial Statement Index 47 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations During 2008, the company recorded additional proceeds and the reversal of a reserve on a note receivable related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $6 million. The note was collected in July 2008. In 2007, the company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $29 million on a business held for sale and subsequently sold. The loss primarily represented the carrying value of the business in excess of the estimated disposal value. Aside from the impairment loss, the company had after tax gains of $10 million in 2007 from discontinued operations, primarily from the receipt of additional proceeds from the sale of a business in 2000 and a revision to the companys estimate of loss from litigation related to a divested business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $2.89 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.29 billion at December 31, 2008. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $127 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $208 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. In January and February 2010, the company entered agreements to acquire three businesses for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $225 million and future contingent consideration of up to an additional $30 million. The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest (Note 9). The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 11, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock through September 10, 2009. At December 31, 2009, no remaining authorization existed for repurchases of the companys common stock. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and expects that for all of 2010, such expenditures will approximate $275 to $300 million. Financial Statement Index 48 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2009, the companys outstanding debt totaled $2.18 billion, of which approximately $0.66 billion is convertible debt, at conversion prices ranging from $23.73 to $40.20 per share. As of December 31, 2009, $340 million of the convertible debt was currently convertible. During 2009 and early 2010, holders of debentures totaling $68 million in par value exercised conversion rights. Upon an investors election to convert, the company is required to pay the original principal portion of these debentures in cash, and the balance of the conversion value in either cash or stock, at the companys election. For any holders electing to convert in 2010, the company intends to draw on its revolving credit facility to fund any principal payments in excess of $113 million which has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying balance sheet. The facility is an unsecured revolving credit agreement expiring in 2012 with available capacity of $946 million at December 31, 2009. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.57 billion as of December 31, 2009, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2008 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.42 billion during 2008. A decrease in accounts payable used $124 million of cash due to the timing of payments at year end. Increases in accounts receivable and inventories used cash of $51 million and $50 million, respectively, representing working capital increases associated with the growth in revenues. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $292 million in 2008 compared with $125 million in 2007, primarily as a result of no longer having tax loss carryforwards in the U.S. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $36 million during 2008. During 2008, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $201 million for acquisitions and $264 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $228 million of cash during 2008, principally for the repurchase of $187 million of the companys common stock and repayment of $151 million of debt, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $85 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $25 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.48 billion during 2007. Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, totaled $125 million in 2007. The company did not make significant U.S. estimated tax payments in 2007, primarily due to tax deductions for merger related stock based compensation and net operating loss carryforwards. The company made $78 million of merger related payments in 2007, which reduced operating cash. Payments for restructuring actions of the companys continuing operations, principally severance, lease costs and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $40 million during 2007. During 2007, the primary investing activities of the companys continuing operations were acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $497 million on acquisitions and $176 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The company collected a note receivable from Newport Corporation totaling $48 million and had proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $19 million, principally real estate. The companys discontinued operations provided cash of $31 million from investing activities, principally the sale of Genevac Limited. Financial Statement Index 49 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $929 million of cash during 2007, principally for the repayment of $464 million of short term debt and the repurchase of $898 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by proceeds of stock option exercises. The company had proceeds of $345 million from the exercise of employee stock options and $97 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2007 2009 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.5 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 117.0 $ 354.4 $ 411.7 $ 1,317.8 $ 2,200.9 Interest (b) 62.2 122.3 116.5 119.1 420.1 Capital lease obligations 0.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 Operating lease obligations 99.8 138.4 68.2 67.5 373.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (c) 155.7 13.7 2.8 172.2 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 76.9 11.6 0.4 11.8 100.7 Surety bonds and other guarantees 38.7 7.2 45.9 Pension obligations on balance sheet 23.5 51.3 57.6 95.9 228.3 Asset retirement obligations 5.1 3.7 2.7 11.0 22.5 Other (d) 7.7 7.7 $ 587.5 $ 703.5 $ 660.0 $ 1,623.1 $ 3,574.1 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) For the purpose of this calculation, amounts assume interest rates on floating rate obligations remain unchanged from levels at December 31, 2009, throughout the life of the obligation. (c) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (d) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 50 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $76.2 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2010, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $275 to $300 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to the disposition. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies and commodities. The company enters into these derivative contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries local currencies or impacted by commodity price movement. The company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the companys cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. The companys currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Euros, Swiss franc, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the Financial Statement Index 51 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) companys debt at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $2.56 billion and $2.15 billion, respectively. Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2009 would increase by approximately $68 million. In 2008, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the companys debt by approximately $52 million. In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the companys interest expense due to variable rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. A 100 basis point increase in 90 day LIBOR at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would increase the companys annual pre tax interest expense by approximately $8 million and $3 million, respectively. Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the companys reporting currency as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in Euros, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, Chinese yuan and British pounds sterling. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $374 million and $306 million, respectively. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% appreciation in year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $39 million and $24 million, respectively. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2009 and 2008 currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, on the companys net income. Equity Prices The companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. In addition, the companys convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the companys common stock. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the companys available for sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. A 10% increase in year end 2009 and 2008 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the companys convertible obligations by $87 million and $81 million, respectively. 
 
