Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reference is made throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which begin on page F 1 of this report. Overview of Results of Operations and Liquidity The company develops, manufactures and sells a broad range of products that are sold worldwide. The company expands the product lines and services it offers by developing and commercializing its own technologies and by making strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses. Beginning in the third quarter of 2011, the companys continuing operations fall into three business segments (see Note 3): Analytical Technologies, Specialty Diagnostics and Laboratory Products and Services. Prior period segment results have been adjusted to conform to this presentation. The results of two businesses sold on April 4, 2011, have been classified and presented as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements. Prior period results have been adjusted to conform to this presentation. The results discussed below refer to the companys continuing operations unless otherwise noted. (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 3,845.4 32.8% $ 3,238.2 30.6% Specialty Diagnostics 2,465.8 21.0% 2,149.0 20.3% Laboratory Products and Services 5,935.4 50.6% 5,650.9 53.5% Eliminations (520.7 ) (4.4)% (467.9 ) (4.4)% $ 11,725.9 100% $ 10,570.2 100% Sales in 2011 were $11.73 billion, an increase of $1.16 billion from 2010. The increase was due to acquisitions, including Phadia and Dionex, and, to a lesser extent, higher sales at existing businesses and the favorable effects of currency translation. Had Phadia, Dionex and the company been combined from the beginning of 2010, pro forma revenues would have increased $787 million (7%) over pro forma 2010 revenues. Aside from the effects of currency translation and other acquisitions, net of divestitures, pro forma revenues increased $389 million (3%) over pro forma 2010 revenues (discussed in total and by segment below). The increase in pro forma revenues was primarily due to increased demand, offset in part by lower sales resulting from cessation of a supply contract, discussed below, and lower stimulus funded sales in Japan as compared to 2010, which together decreased sales by approximately one percentage point. The company had lower sales to academic and government markets in the second half of 2011 which it believes may be due to uncertainty in funding expectations in the U.S. and Europe. These markets represent approximately a quarter of the companys revenues and the decrease in sales to this customer base reduced the companys overall growth in the second half of 2011 by approximately one percentage point, although the decline moderated in the fourth quarter. The company currently expects weakness in academic and government markets will continue into 2012. The companys strategy is to augment internal growth at existing businesses with complementary acquisitions such as those completed in 2011 and 2010. The companys principal recent acquisitions are described below. Phadia, a global leader in the development, manufacturing and marketing of complete blood test systems to support the clinical diagnosis and monitoring of allergy and autoimmune diseases, was acquired in August 2011 to expand the companys specialty diagnostics offerings. Dionex, a global leader in the manufacturing and marketing of ion and liquid chromatography and sample preparation systems, consumables, and software for chemical analysis, was acquired in May 2011 to expand the companys chromatography systems portfolio. Financial Statement Index 28 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of Results of Operations and Liquidity (continued) Fermentas, a manufacturer and global distributor of enzymes, reagents and kits for molecular and cellular biology research, was acquired in July 2010 to expand the companys ability to provide complete workflows for genomics research. Finnzymes, a provider of integrated tools for molecular biology analysis, including reagents, instruments, consumables and kits, was acquired in March 2010 to expand the companys portfolio of reagents and other consumables for the molecular biology research and diagnostics markets. Ahura Scientific, a provider of handheld spectroscopy instruments that are used worldwide in the identification of chemicals for safety, security and pharmaceutical applications, was acquired in February 2010 to expand the companys portfolio of portable analytical devices. In 2011, operating income and operating income margin were $1.25 billion and 10.6%, respectively, compared with $1.21 billion and 11.4%, respectively, in 2010. The decrease in operating income margin was primarily due to $124 million of higher acquisition related charges and an increase in amortization expense of $93 million in 2011 primarily related to the acquisitions of Phadia and Dionex. The decrease in operating margin was offset in part by productivity improvements and profit on incremental sales from acquisitions and existing businesses. The companys references throughout this discussion to productivity improvements generally refer to improved cost efficiencies from its Practical Process Improvement (PPI) processes, reduced costs resulting from global sourcing initiatives and a lower cost structure following restructuring actions including headcount reductions and consolidation of facilities. The companys effective tax rates were 9.5% and 9.8% in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to increased earnings in lower tax jurisdictions including the effect of the Phadia acquisition. The tax provision in 2011 was unfavorably affected by $12 million, or 1.0 percentage points, as a result of adjustments to deferred tax balances due to changes in tax rates, offset in part by $8 million, or 0.7 percentage points, by the ability to use tax loss carryforwards as a result of the Phadia acquisition. The tax provision in 2010 was favorably affected by $17 million or 1.6 percentage points resulting primarily from the resolution of tax audits and the impact on deferred tax balances of changes in tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2012 will be between 11.5% to 13.5% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. Income from continuing operations increased to $1.02 billion in 2011, from $997 million in 2010, primarily due to increased operating income, offset in part by higher other expense, net, primarily interest expense as a result of borrowings to partially fund acquisitions. On April 4, 2011, the company sold, in separate transactions, its Athena Diagnostics business (Athena) for $740 million in cash and its Lancaster Laboratories business (Lancaster) for $180 million in cash and escrowed proceeds of $20 million, due in October 2012. The sale of these businesses resulted in an after tax gain in discontinued operations of $304 million or $0.79 per diluted share. During 2011, the companys cash flow from operations totaled $1.69 billion (including $13 million from discontinued operations), compared with $1.50 billion (including $45 million from discontinued operations) for 2010. The increase resulted primarily from higher income before amortization and depreciation, offset in part by growth in working capital items in 2011 compared to 2010. As of December 31, 2011, the companys short term debt totaled $1.27 billion, principally commercial paper obligations and $354 million of senior notes, due December 2012. Under its principal unsecured revolving credit agreement, expiring in August 2012, the company has available capacity of $951 million at December 31, 2011. In addition, the company has a $1 billion short term revolving credit agreement expiring in June 2012, the purpose of which is to provide short term funds in the event access to commercial paper markets is not available. The company expects to renew these facilities before their expiration, for all or a portion of the available borrowings thereunder. At December 31, 2011, the company had $900 million of commercial paper indebtedness outstanding and accordingly, the company had $100 million of borrowing capacity under its commercial paper program revolver. Financial Statement Index 29 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of Results of Operations and Liquidity (continued) The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.02 billion as of December 31, 2011, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under both its principal and commercial paper revolving credit agreements and the expected renewals thereof, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations is based upon its financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an on going basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, business combinations, intangible assets and goodwill, equity investments, sales returns, warranty obligations, income taxes, contingencies and litigation, pension costs and stock based compensation. Management believes the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the consolidated financial statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Management bases its estimates on historical experience, current market and economic conditions and other assumptions that management believes are reasonable. The results of these estimates form the basis for judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities where the values are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following represent its critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of its financial statements: (a) Accounts Receivable The company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to pay amounts due. Such allowances totaled $67 million at December 31, 2011. The company estimates the amount of customer receivables that are uncollectible based on the age of the receivable, the creditworthiness of the customer and any other information that is relevant to the judgment. If the financial condition of the companys customers were to deteriorate, reducing their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required. (b) Inventories The company writes down its inventories for estimated excess quantities and obsolescence based on differences between the cost and estimated net realizable value taking into consideration usage in the preceding 12 months, expected demand and any other information that is relevant to the judgment. If ultimate usage or demand varies significantly from expected usage or demand, additional writedowns may be required. (c) Intangible Assets and Goodwill The company uses assumptions and estimates in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. The determination of the fair value of intangible assets, which represent a significant portion of the purchase price in many of the companys acquisitions, requires the use of significant judgment with regard to (i) the fair value; and (ii) whether such intangibles are amortizable or non amortizable and, if the former, the period and the method by which the intangible asset will be amortized. The company estimates the fair value of acquisition related intangible assets principally based on projections of cash flows that will arise from identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses. The projected cash flows are discounted to determine the present value of the assets at the dates of acquisition. Definite lived intangible assets totaled $6.47 billion at December 31, 2011. The company reviews definite lived intangible assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Actual cash flows arising from a particular intangible asset could vary from projected cash flows which could imply different carrying values from those established at the dates of acquisition and which could result in impairment of such asset. Financial Statement Index 30 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) The company evaluates goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually and when events occur or circumstances change that may reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying amount. Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets totaled $11.99 billion and $1.33 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth, asset related expenditures, working capital levels and other factors. Different assumptions from those made in the companys analysis could materially affect projected cash flows and the companys evaluation of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The companys businesses were adversely affected in 2009 by the global economic downturn, although results progressively improved during the year and in 2010. Growth at some of the companys businesses also slowed in 2011 which the company believes was in part due to uncertainty in funding expectations of customers in academic and government markets. Projections of profitability for 2012 and thereafter and indicated fair values based on peer revenues and earnings trading multiples were sufficient to conclude that no impairment of goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets existed at the end of the tenth fiscal month of 2011, the date of the companys impairment testing. There can be no assurance, however, that the slowing of growth experienced in 2011 at some businesses will not continue or worsen in 2012 and that a downturn will not materially adversely affect peer trading multiples and the companys businesses such that they do not achieve their forecasted profitability and these assets become impaired. Should the fair value of the companys goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets decline because of reduced operating performance, market declines, or other indicators of impairment, or as a result of changes in the discount rate, charges for impairment may be necessary. (d) Other Long lived Assets The company reviews other long lived assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Other long lived assets totaled $2.21 billion at December 31, 2011, including $1.66 billion of fixed assets. In testing a long lived asset for impairment, assumptions are made concerning projected cash flows associated with the asset. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth and asset related expenditures associated with the asset being reviewed for impairment. Should future cash flows decline significantly from estimated amounts, charges for impairment of other long lived assets may be necessary. (e) Revenues In instances where the company sells equipment with a related installation obligation, the company generally recognizes revenue related to the equipment when title passes. The company recognizes revenue related to the installation when it performs the installation. The allocation of revenue between the equipment and the installation is based on relative fair value at the time of sale. Should the fair value of either the equipment or the installation change, the companys revenue recognition would be affected. Financial Statement Index 31 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) In instances where the company sells equipment with customer specified acceptance criteria, the company must assess whether it can demonstrate adherence to the acceptance criteria prior to the customers acceptance testing to determine the timing of revenue recognition. If the nature of customer specified acceptance criteria were to change or grow in complexity such that the company could not demonstrate adherence, the company would be required to defer additional revenues upon shipment of its products until completion of customer acceptance testing. The companys software license agreements generally include multiple products and services, or elements. The company recognizes software license revenue based on the residual method after all elements have either been delivered or vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value exists for any undelivered elements. In the event VSOE is not available for any undelivered element, revenue for all elements is deferred until delivery of all elements other than post contract support is completed. Revenues from software maintenance and support contracts are recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. VSOE of fair value of software maintenance and support is determined based on the price charged for the maintenance and support when sold separately. Revenues from training and consulting services are recognized as services are performed, based on VSOE, which is determined by reference to the price customers pay when the services are sold separately. The company records reductions to revenue for estimated product returns by customers. Should a greater or lesser number of products be returned, additional adjustments to revenue may be required. (f) Warranty Obligations At the time the company recognizes revenue, it provides for the estimated cost of product warranties in cost of product revenues based primarily on historical experience and knowledge of any specific warranty problems that indicate projected warranty costs may vary from historical patterns. The liability for warranty obligations of the companys continuing operations totaled $42 million at December 31, 2011. Should product failure rates or the actual cost of correcting product failures vary from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be necessary. (g) Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying the companys income tax positions. The company assesses income tax positions and records tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon managements evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, the company has recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. The companys reserve for these matters totaled $120 million at December 31, 2011. Where applicable, associated interest expense has also been recognized. The company operates in numerous countries under many legal forms and, as a result, is subject to the jurisdiction of numerous domestic and non U.S. tax authorities, as well as to tax agreements and treaties among these governments. Determination of taxable income in any jurisdiction requires the interpretation of the related tax laws and regulations and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events, such as the amount, timing and character of deductions, permissible revenue recognition methods under the tax law and the sources and character of income and tax credits. Changes in tax laws, regulations, agreements and treaties, currency exchange restrictions or the companys level of operations or profitability in each taxing jurisdiction could have an impact upon the amount of current and deferred tax balances and hence the companys net income. Financial Statement Index 32 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) The company estimates the degree to which tax assets and loss carryforwards will result in a benefit based on expected profitability by tax jurisdiction, and provides a valuation allowance for tax assets and loss carryforwards that it believes will more likely than not go unused. If it becomes more likely than not that a tax asset or loss carryforward will be used, the company reverses the related valuation allowance. Any such reversals are recorded as a reduction of the companys tax provision. The companys tax valuation allowance totaled $142 million at December 31, 2011. Should the companys actual future taxable income by tax jurisdiction vary from estimates, additional allowances or reversals thereof may be necessary. The company provides a liability for future income tax payments in the worldwide tax jurisdictions in which it operates. Should tax return positions that the company expects are sustainable not be sustained upon audit, the company could be required to record an incremental tax provision for such taxes. Should previously unrecognized tax benefits ultimately be sustained, a reduction in the companys tax provision would result. (h) Contingencies and Litigation The company records accruals for various contingencies, including legal proceedings, environmental, workers compensation, product, general and auto liabilities, and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. The accruals are based on managements judgment, historical claims experience, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and or external legal counsel and actuarial estimates. Reserves of acquired businesses, including environmental reserves, were initially recorded at fair value and discounted to their net present value. Additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. (i) Pension and Other Retiree Benefits Several of the companys U.S. and non U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension and other retiree benefit plans. The cost and obligations of these arrangements are calculated using many assumptions to estimate the benefits that the employee earns while working, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments cease. Major assumptions used in the accounting for these employee benefit plans include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of increase in employee compensation levels. Assumptions are determined based on company data and appropriate market indicators in consultation with third party actuaries, and are evaluated each year as of the plans measurement date. Net periodic pension costs for the companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans totaled $17 million in 2011. The companys unfunded benefit obligation totaled $346 million at year end 2011 compared with $244 million at year end 2010. Should any of these assumptions change, they would have an effect on net periodic pension costs and the unfunded benefit obligation. For example, a 10% decrease in the discount rate would result in an annual increase in pension and other postretirement benefit expense of approximately $2 million and an increase in the benefit obligation of approximately $79 million. The company expects to contribute between $20 and $30 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2012. Financial Statement Index 33 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued) (j) Stock based Compensation The fair value of most stock options granted by the company is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model. For option grants and restricted stock units that require achievement of both service and market conditions, a lattice model is used to estimate fair value. Use of a valuation model requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs. Management estimates expected volatility based on the historical volatility of the companys stock. Historical data on exercise patterns is the basis for determining the expected life of an option. The risk free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with a remaining term which approximates the expected life assumed at the date of grant. Changes in these input variables would affect the amount of expense associated with stock based compensation. The compensation expense recognized for all stock based awards is net of estimated forfeitures. The company estimates forfeiture rates based on historical analysis of option forfeitures. If actual forfeitures should vary from estimated forfeitures, adjustments to compensation expense may be required. Results of Operations 2011 Compared With 2010 Continuing Operations Sales in 2011 were $11.73 billion, an increase of $1.16 billion from 2010. The increase was due to acquisitions, including Phadia and Dionex, and, to a lesser extent, higher revenues at existing businesses and the favorable effects of currency translation. Had Phadia, Dionex and the company been combined from the beginning of 2010, pro forma revenues would have increased $787 million (7%) over pro forma 2010 revenues, including $132 million due to other acquisitions, net of divestitures, $266 million due to the favorable effects of currency translation and $389 million (3%) due to higher revenues at existing businesses. The increase in pro forma revenues at existing businesses was primarily due to increased demand, offset in part by lower sales resulting from cessation of a supply contract, discussed below, and lower stimulus funded sales in Japan as compared to 2010, which together decreased sales by approximately 1 percentage point. Sales growth was strong in Asia and modest in Europe and North America. The results in North America and Asia were affected by the cessation of the supply contract and the lower stimulus funded sales in Japan, respectively. The company had lower sales to academic and government markets in the second half of 2011 which it believes may be due to uncertainty in funding expectations in the U.S. and Europe. These markets represent approximately a quarter of the companys revenues and the decrease in sales to this customer base reduced the companys overall growth in the second half of 2011 by approximately one percentage point, although the decline moderated in the fourth quarter. The company currently expects weakness in academic and government markets will continue into 2012. In 2011, operating income and operating income margin were $1.25 billion and 10.6%, respectively, compared with $1.21 billion and 11.4%, respectively, in 2010. The decrease in operating income margin was primarily due to $124 million of higher acquisition related charges and an increase in amortization expense of $93 million in 2011 primarily related to the acquisitions of Phadia and Dionex. The decrease in operating margin was offset in part by productivity improvements and profit on incremental sales from acquisitions and existing businesses. The companys references throughout this discussion to productivity improvements generally refer to improved cost efficiencies from its Practical Process Improvement (PPI) processes, reduced costs resulting from global sourcing initiatives and a lower cost structure following restructuring actions including headcount reductions and consolidation of facilities. In 2011, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $235 million, including $73 million of charges to cost of revenues related primarily to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and, to a lesser extent, accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations and $62 million of charges to selling, general and administrative expenses primarily for cash transaction costs related to the acquisitions of Phadia and Dionex. The company incurred $85 million of other cash costs, including $21 million of cash compensation from monetizing equity awards held by Dionex employees at the date of acquisition. The cash costs also include continuing costs associated with headcount reductions and facility consolidations in an effort to streamline operations, including severance to reduce headcount at several businesses and abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated, such as the following: the consolidation of facilities of acquired businesses in Finland and Australia with existing facilities in those countries; the consolidation of facilities in the U.S. and Mexico; and the restructuring of the commercial organization of a business across six European countries to increase productivity and efficiency in serving customers. The company also recorded $15 million of non cash costs, net, primarily for the impairment of intangible assets at several small business units and, to a lesser extent, a loss on sale of a business (see Note 14). Financial Statement Index 34 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations (continued) In 2010, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $79 million, including $16 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and, to a lesser extent, accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations and $3 million of charges to selling, general and administrative expenses for transaction costs, net, primarily related to the acquisition of Dionex and revisions of estimated contingent consideration, principally related to the acquisition of Ahura Scientific, offset in part by a gain of $11 million on settlement with product liability insurers. The company incurred $34 million of cash costs, primarily for actions initiated in 2009 and, to a lesser extent, 2010 in response to the downturn in the economy and reduced revenues, including severance to reduce headcount at several businesses and abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company recorded impairment charges of $17 million for intangible assets associated with several small business units. The company also recorded a $6 million charge on a patent infringement claim initiated prior to a business units acquisition by the company and $3 million of asset writedowns associated with abandoned facilities held for sale. As of February 29, 2012, the company has identified restructuring actions that will result in additional charges of approximately $60 million in 2012 and expects to identify additional actions during 2012. The restructuring projects for which actions commenced in 2011 will result in annual cost savings of approximately $85 million beginning in part in 2011 and, to a greater extent, in 2012, including $30 million in the Analytical Technologies segment, $15 million in the Specialty Diagnostics segment and $40 million in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. The additional actions approved in 2011 and commencing in 2012 will result in $30 million of additional annual savings following their completion. The restructuring actions initiated in 2010 resulted in annual cost savings beginning primarily in 2011 of approximately $50 million, including $5 million in the Analytical Technologies segment, $10 million in the Specialty Diagnostics segment and $35 million in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. On February 3, 2012, the Internal Revenue Service issued proposed regulations that provide guidance on the excise tax imposed on the sale of medical devices under Internal Revenue Code Section 4191. The tax applies to the sale of certain medical devices by a manufacturer, producer or importer of the device. The tax is in the amount of 2.3% of the sale price and will apply to all devices that are sold beginning January 1, 2013. Based on the companys estimate of product revenue that is expected to be subject to the regulations, the company currently expects that imposition of the tax will cost $20 30 million annually, beginning in 2013. Segment Results The companys management evaluates segment operating performance using operating income before certain charges/credits to cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses, principally associated with acquisition accounting; restructuring and other costs/income including costs arising from facility consolidations such as severance and abandoned lease expense and gains and losses from the sale of real estate and product lines; and amortization of acquisition related intangible assets. The company also refers to this measure as adjusted operating income. The company uses this measure because it helps management understand and evaluate the segments core operating results and facilitate comparison of performance for determining compensation (Note 3). Accordingly, the following segment data is reported on this basis. Financial Statement Index 35 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 3,845.4 $ 3,238.2 19% Specialty Diagnostics 2,465.8 2,149.0 15% Laboratory Products and Services 5,935.4 5,650.9 5% Eliminations (520.7 ) (467.9 ) 11% Consolidated Revenues $ 11,725.9 $ 10,570.2 11% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 720.0 $ 550.1 31% Specialty Diagnostics 597.0 487.9 22% Laboratory Products and Services 810.8 802.1 1% Subtotal Reportable Segments 2,127.8 1,840.1 16% Cost of Revenues Charges (72.8 ) (16.0 ) Selling, General and Administrative Charges, Net (61.5 ) (3.0 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (100.4 ) (60.4 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (647.9 ) (554.7 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,245.2 $ 1,206.0 3% Reportable Segments Operating Income Margin 18.1% 17.4% Consolidated Operating Income Margin 10.6% 11.4% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 16% to $2.13 billion in 2011 due primarily to profit on incremental sales from acquisitions and, to a lesser extent, existing businesses as well as from productivity improvements. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 Change Revenues $ 3,845.4 $ 3,238.2 19% Operating Income Margin 18.7% 17.0% 1.7 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $607 million to $3.85 billion in 2011. The increase was due to acquisitions, including Dionex, higher revenue at existing businesses and, to a lesser extent, the favorable effects of currency translation. Had Dionex and the company been combined from the beginning of 2010, pro forma revenues would have increased $349 million (10%) over pro forma 2010 revenues, including increases of $47 million due to other acquisitions, $95 million due to the favorable effects of currency translation and $207 million (6%) due to higher revenues at existing businesses. The increase in pro forma revenue at existing businesses was primarily due to increased demand. Demand was particularly strong for instruments serving industrial and applied markets. The increase in revenues was offset in part by lower stimulus funded sales in Japan in the first quarter of 2011 which decreased pro forma growth by 1 percentage point. Financial Statement Index 36 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations (continued) Operating income margin was 18.7% in 2011 and 17.0% in 2010. The increase resulted from productivity improvements and, to a lesser extent, accretive acquisitions, price increases and profit on incremental sales at existing businesses. These increases were offset in part by higher spending on research and development initiatives. Specialty Diagnostics (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 Change Revenues $ 2,465.8 $ 2,149.0 15% Operating Income Margin 24.2% 22.7% 1.5 Sales in the Specialty Diagnostics segment increased $317 million to $2.47 billion in 2011. The increase was due to acquisitions, including Phadia, higher revenue at existing businesses and the favorable effects of currency translation. Had Phadia and the company been combined from the beginning of 2010, pro forma revenues would have increased $206 million (8%) over pro forma 2010 revenues, including increases of $19 million due to other acquisitions, $68 million due to the favorable effects of currency translation and $120 million (5%) due to higher revenues at existing businesses. The increase in pro forma revenue at existing businesses was primarily due to increased demand. Demand was particularly strong for immunodiagnostics and clinical diagnostics products. The increase in demand was offset in part by cessation of a supply contract, discussed below, which decreased pro forma growth by 2 percentage points. In November 2009, a significant supplier of the companys healthcare market channel notified the company that it intended to cease an existing supply arrangement in mid 2010. The company believes this was in part a response to the companys strategic decision to expand its product offerings to provide its customers with a broader menu of diagnostic solutions. The company signed an agreement with an alternative supplier of laboratory products and is selling these and other products from the new supplier, offsetting a portion of the drop in revenue. As a result of these events, sales were unfavorably affected by $54 million, net, in the first half of 2011. Operating income margin was 24.2% in 2011 and 22.7% in 2010. The increase resulted from productivity improvements and, to a lesser extent, profit on incremental sales at existing businesses and accretive acquisitions. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 Change Revenues $ 5,935.4 $ 5,650.9 5% Operating Income Margin 13.7% 14.2% (0.5 ) Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $285 million to $5.94 billion in 2011. The favorable effects of currency translation resulted in an increase in revenues of $107 million in 2011. Sales increased $66 million due to acquisitions. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, revenues increased $112 million (2%) primarily due to increased demand. Demand for biopharma outsourcing services was particularly strong. Operating income margin decreased to 13.7% in 2011 from 14.2% in 2010, primarily due to inflationary pressures on costs, particularly oil based raw materials such as plastic resin, and, to a lesser extent, commercial investments including expansion of sales and marketing staff in the Asia/Pacific region and information technology initiatives in Europe. These decreases were offset in part by productivity improvements. Financial Statement Index 37 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations (continued) Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $119 million and $100 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively (Note 4). The increase was primarily due to a $91 million increase in interest expense, offset in part by higher other items, net and higher interest income. The increase in interest expense was related to the debt issued to fund the Phadia and Dionex acquisitions, offset in part by having refinanced higher rate debt during 2010. In 2011, other items, net includes a $28 million gain on currency exchange contracts associated with the Phadia acquisition and repayment of its multi currency debt and an $18 million gain on the sale of an investment accounted for under the cost method, offset in part by $10 million of fees associated with short term financing commitments to fund the Phadia acquisition. In 2010, other items, net includes a $17 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt and $8 million of fees associated with short term financing commitments for the Dionex acquisition. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rates were 9.5% and 9.8% in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to increased earnings in lower tax jurisdictions including the effect of the Phadia acquisition. The tax provision in 2011 was unfavorably affected by $12 million, or 1.0 percentage points, as a result of adjustments to deferred tax balances due to changes in tax rates, offset in part by $8 million, or 0.7 percentage points, by the ability to use tax loss carryforwards as a result of the Phadia acquisition. The tax provision in 2010 was favorably affected by $17 million or 1.6 percentage points resulting primarily from the resolution of tax audits and the impact on deferred tax balances of changes in tax rates. The company expects its effective tax rate in 2012 will be between 11.5% to 13.5% based on currently forecasted rates of profitability in the countries in which the company conducts business. Discontinued Operations On April 4, 2011, the company sold, in separate transactions, its Athena Diagnostics business (Athena) for $740 million in cash and its Lancaster Laboratories business (Lancaster) for $180 million in cash and escrowed proceeds of $20 million, due in October 2012. The sale of these businesses resulted in an after tax gain of $304 million or $0.79 per diluted share. Revenues and operating income of the two businesses aggregated approximately $225 million and $60 million, respectively, in 2010. Athena provides diagnostic testing for neurological and other diseases, with an emphasis on gene based tests. Lancaster is a contract testing laboratory that provides analytical laboratory services. The results of both businesses have been included in the accompanying financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented (Note 2). After tax income from discontinued operations was $5.5 million and $36.1 million, in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The company also received additional proceeds from a previously divested business in the second quarter of 2011, resulting in an after tax gain of $1 million. During the first quarter of 2010, the company recorded additional proceeds related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $2.5 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2011, the FASB issued new guidance which requires enhanced disclosures on offsetting amounts within the balance sheet, including disclosing gross and net information about instruments and transactions eligible for offset or subject to a master netting or similar agreement. The guidance is effective for the company beginning January 1, 2013 and is to be applied retrospectively. The adoption of this guidance, which is related to disclosure only, will not have an impact on the companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In September 2011, the FASB issued revised guidance requiring entities to provide additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures about an employers participation and financial obligations in a multiemployer pension plan. The new rule is intended to increase transparency about an employers participation in a multiemployer pension plan. The new guidance was effective in 2011. Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the companys results of operations or financial position. Financial Statement Index 38 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations (continued) In September 2011, the FASB modified existing rules to allow entities to use a qualitative approach to test goodwill for impairment. The revised guidance permits an entity to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If impairment is deemed more likely than not, management would perform the currently prescribed two step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two step goodwill impairment test is not required. This guidance will be effective for the company on January 1, 2012. Adoption of this standard will not have an impact on the companys results of operations or financial position. In June 2011, the FASB issued new guidance pertaining to the presentation of comprehensive income. The new rule eliminates the current option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in equity. The standard is intended to provide a more consistent method of presenting non owner transactions that affect the companys equity. Under the new guidance, an entity can elect to present items of net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement or in two separate, but consecutive, statements. The new guidance will be effective for the company on January 1, 2012 and will not have an impact on the companys results of operations or financial position. In May 2011, the FASB amended existing rules covering fair value measurement and disclosure to clarify guidance and minimize differences between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The new guidance requires entities to provide information about valuation techniques and unobservable inputs used in Level 3 fair value measurements and provide a narrative description of the sensitivity of Level 3 measurements to changes in unobservable inputs. The guidance will be effective for the company on January 1, 2012 and is not expected to have a material impact on its financial statements. Contingent Liabilities The company is contingently liable with respect to certain legal proceedings and related matters. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the matters described under Litigation and Related Contingencies in Note 10 could materially affect the companys financial position as well as its results of operations and cash flows. 2010 Compared With 2009 Continuing Operations Sales in 2010 were $10.57 billion, an increase of $659 million from 2009. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenues of $19 million in 2010. Sales increased $267 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Aside from the effects of currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $411 million (4%) due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, higher stimulus funded spending by customers and price increases. Sales rebounded from a weak 2009 when the company believes a global economic slowdown reduced demand. Sales growth was strong in Asia, moderate in North America and modest in Europe in 2010. The increase in revenues was offset in part by cessation of a supply contract and a milder flu season in 2010 which together unfavorably affected revenue growth by 2 percentage points in 2010. The company estimates that stimulus funded spending increased revenues by approximately 1 percentage point in 2010, primarily in the first quarter. In 2010, operating income and operating income margin were $1.21 billion and 11.4%, respectively, compared with $1.00 billion and 10.1%, respectively, in 2009. The increases in operating income and operating income margin were due to profit on incremental sales and, to a lesser extent, productivity improvements. In addition, amortization expense decreased by $25 million in 2010, primarily due to the completion of amortization of acquisition related intangibles from a 2005 acquisition. Financial Statement Index 39 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations (continued) In 2010, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $79 million, including: $16 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and, to a lesser extent, accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations and $3 million of charges to selling, general and administrative expenses for transaction costs, net, primarily related to the acquisition of Dionex and revisions of estimated contingent consideration, principally related to the acquisition of Ahura Scientific, offset in part by a gain of $11 million on settlement with product liability insurers. The company incurred $34 million of cash costs, primarily for actions initiated in 2009 and, to a lesser extent, 2010 in response to the downturn in the economy and reduced revenues, including severance to reduce headcount at several businesses and abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company recorded impairment charges of $17 million for intangible assets associated with several small business units. The company also recorded a $6 million charge on a patent infringement claim initiated prior to a business units acquisition by the company and $3 million of asset writedowns associated with abandoned facilities held for sale. In 2009, the company recorded restructuring and other costs, net, of $67 million, including $7 million of charges to cost of revenues related to the sale of inventories revalued at the date of acquisition and accelerated depreciation on manufacturing assets to be abandoned due to facility consolidations and $2 million of charges to selling, general and administrative expenses for transaction costs related to the acquisitions of Biolab and B.R.A.H.M.S. offset in part by a gain primarily for settlement of certain product liability related matters. The company incurred $60 million of cash costs, primarily for actions in response to the downturn in the economy and reduced revenues, including severance to reduce headcount at several businesses and abandoned facility expenses at businesses that have been or are being consolidated. The company also incurred a $2 million loss on an abandoned facility held for sale that was sold in July 2009 and a $3 million charge for pension termination benefits, offset by a $7 million gain on the settlement of a litigation related matter assumed as part of the merger with Fisher in 2006. The restructuring actions initiated in 2009 resulted in annual cost savings beginning in the second half of 2009 and early 2010 of approximately $60 million, including $30 million in the Analytical Technologies segment, $10 million in the Specialty Diagnostics segment and $20 million in the Laboratory Products and Services segment. Financial Statement Index 40 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations (continued) Segment Results (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Change Revenues Analytical Technologies $ 3,238.2 $ 2,918.8 11% Specialty Diagnostics 2,149.0 2,150.4 (0)% Laboratory Products and Services 5,650.9 5,244.5 8% Eliminations (467.9 ) (402.1 ) 16% Consolidated Revenues $ 10,570.2 $ 9,911.6 7% Segment Income Analytical Technologies $ 550.1 $ 456.9 20% Specialty Diagnostics 487.9 457.7 7% Laboratory Products and Services 802.1 734.8 9% Subtotal Reportable Segments 1,840.1 1,649.4 12% Cost of Revenues Charges (16.0 ) (6.7 ) Selling, General and Administrative Costs, Net (3.0 ) (1.5 ) Restructuring and Other Costs, Net (60.4 ) (59.2 ) Amortization of Acquisition related Intangible Assets (554.7 ) (579.9 ) Consolidated Operating Income $ 1,206.0 $ 1,002.1 20% Reportable Segments Operating Income Margin 17.4% 16.6% Consolidated Operating Income Margin 11.4% 10.1% Income from the companys reportable segments increased 12% to $1.84 billion in 2010 due primarily to productivity improvements and, to a lesser extent, profit on incremental sales. Analytical Technologies (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Change Revenues $ 3,238.2 $ 2,918.8 11% Operating Income Margin 17.0% 15.7% 1.3 Sales in the Analytical Technologies segment increased $319 million to $3.24 billion in 2010. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenue of $15 million in 2010. Sales increased $123 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $211 million (7%) primarily due to increased demand including higher stimulus funded spending by customers, particularly in the first quarter. Demand in industrial markets for environmental and process control equipment improved in 2010. Demand was also strong for mass spectrometry instruments and bioscience offerings. Operating income margin was 17.0% in 2010 and 15.7% in 2009. The increase resulted from productivity improvements and, to a lesser extent, profit on incremental sales. Financial Statement Index 41 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations (continued) Specialty Diagnostics (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Change Revenues $ 2,149.0 $ 2,150.4 (0)% Operating Income Margin 22.7% 21.3% 1.4 Sales in the Specialty Diagnostics segment were approximately flat in 2010 at $2.15 billion. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a decrease in revenue of $7 million in 2010. Sales increased $110 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues decreased $104 million (5%) primarily due to a $102 million, net reduction in sales due to termination and transition of a supply contract discussed above. In addition, the segments revenues decreased due to milder flu conditions in 2010 than 2009, offset in part by increased demand for clinical diagnostic products. Operating income margin was 22.7% in 2010 and 21.3% in 2009. The increase resulted from productivity improvements and to a lesser extent, sales of higher margin products. Laboratory Products and Services (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Change Revenues $ 5,650.9 $ 5,244.5 8% Operating Income Margin 14.2% 14.0% 0.2 Sales in the Laboratory Products and Services segment increased $406 million to $5.65 billion in 2010. The unfavorable effects of currency translation resulted in a nominal increase in revenues in 2010. Sales increased $34 million due to acquisitions, net of divestitures. In addition to the changes in revenue resulting from currency translation and acquisitions, net of divestitures, revenues increased $371 million (7%) primarily due to stronger demand and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Demand for laboratory equipment, which had been particularly weak in 2009, and consumables improved in 2010. Operating income margin increased to 14.2% in 2010 from 14.0% in 2009, primarily due to productivity improvements offset in part by inflationary pressures on supply costs and, to a lesser extent, strategic investments including expansion of sales and marketing staff in the Asia/Pacific region and information technology initiatives in Europe. Other Expense, Net The company reported other expense, net, of $100 million and $122 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively Interest expense decreased to $85 million from $118 million in 2009 primarily as a result of lower interest rates on variable rate debt following refinancings completed in late 2009 and the first half of 2010. In 2010 and 2009, other expense, net, includes losses on the early extinguishment of debt of $17 million and $15 million, respectively and in 2010, $8 million of fees associated with short term financing commitments for the Dionex acquisition. Provision for Income Taxes The companys effective tax rates were 9.8% and 6.5% in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to increased earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. The tax provision in 2010 was favorably affected by $17 million or 1.6 percentage points resulting primarily from the resolution of tax audits and the impact on deferred tax balances of changes in tax rates. The tax provision in 2009 was favorably affected by $5.5 million or 0.6 percentage points resulting from the reversal of a tax reserve established at acquisition and the impact on deferred tax balances of changes in tax rates. Financial Statement Index 42 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations (continued) Discontinued Operations As described above and in Note 2 to the accompanying financial statements, the company sold two businesses on April 4, 2011. The results of both businesses have been included in the accompanying financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented. After tax income from discontinued operations was $36.1 million and $28.1 million, in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in income was primarily due to incremental profit on higher revenues of the discontinued businesses. During 2010, the company recorded additional proceeds related to a business divested in 2003, resulting in an after tax gain of $2.5 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated working capital was $1.71 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $2.43 billion at December 31, 2010. Included in working capital were cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.02 billion at December 31, 2011 and $0.93 billion at December 31, 2010. The decrease in working capital is primarily due to short term borrowings under the companys U.S. commercial paper program, used to partially fund the acquisition of Phadia (Note 9), offset in part by increases in accounts receivable and inventories resulting from the acquisitions of Phadia and Dionex. 2011 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.69 billion during 2011. Increases in accounts receivable and inventory used cash of $107 million and $33 million, respectively, primarily to support growth in sales. An increase in other assets used cash of $124 million primarily due to the timing of tax refunds. An increase in accounts payable provided cash of $31 million, primarily due to higher inventory purchases. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $72 million during 2011. During 2011, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $5.70 billion for acquisitions and $267 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys continuing operations had cash proceeds from a divestiture of $14 million and the companys discontinued operations had net cash proceeds of $760 million, primarily from the sale of Athena and Lancaster. The companys financing activities provided $3.55 billion of cash during 2011, principally $5.15 billion from the issuance of debt to fund acquisitions, offset in part by the repurchase of $1.34 billion of the companys common stock. Following issuance of a redemption notice for the remaining $329 million principal outstanding of the companys 3.25% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes due 2024, all of the balance was converted or redeemed for a total cash outlay of $452 million. The companys financing activities also included $158 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. On September 8, 2010, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $750 million of the companys common stock through September 8, 2011. On February 23, 2011, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $750 million of the companys common stock through February 22, 2012. On November 10, 2011, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $750 million of the companys common stock through November 9, 2012. At December 31, 2011, $650 million was available for future repurchases of the companys common stock under these authorizations. Financial Statement Index 43 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) As of December 31, 2011, the companys short term debt totaled $1.27 billion, principally commercial paper obligations and $354 million of senior notes, due December 2012. Under its principal unsecured revolving credit agreement, expiring in August 2012, the company has available capacity of $951 million at December 31, 2011. In addition, the company has a $1 billion short term revolving credit agreement expiring in June 2012, the purpose of which is to provide short term funds in the event access to commercial paper markets is not available. The company expects to renew these facilities before their expiration, for all or a portion of the available borrowings thereunder. At December 31, 2011, the company had $900 million of commercial paper indebtedness outstanding and accordingly, the company had $100 million of borrowing capacity under its commercial paper program revolver. The company believes that its existing cash and short term investments of $1.02 billion as of December 31, 2011, and the companys future cash flow from operations together with available borrowing capacity under both its principal and commercial paper revolving credit agreements and the expected renewals thereof, are sufficient to meet the cash requirements of its existing businesses for the foreseeable future, including at least the next 24 months. 2010 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.50 billion during 2010. Increases in accounts receivable and inventory used cash of $80 million and $28 million, respectively, primarily to support growth in sales. Increases in other assets used cash of $81 million, primarily due to the timing of value added tax (VAT) refunds and prepaid expenses. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $370 million in 2010, compared with $330 million in 2009 due to an increase in taxable income. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $47 million during 2010. During 2010, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $606 million for acquisitions and $258 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. The companys financing activities used $1.30 billion of cash during 2010, principally for the extinguishment of debt and repurchase of $1.01 billion of the companys common stock, offset in part by the net proceeds for the issuance of long term debt of $741 million. The company used the net proceeds from the issuance of debt and existing cash balances to convert all of the $326 million principal outstanding on its Floating Rate Convertible Debentures due 2033 for a total cash outlay of $573 million and to redeem all of its $500 million outstanding 6 1/8% Senior Subordinated Notes at a redemption price of $1,030.63 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $515 million. The companys financing activities in 2010 also included $77 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. 2009 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.66 billion during 2009. Decreases in accounts receivable and inventory provided cash of $125 million and $108 million, respectively. A decrease in accounts payable used cash of $45 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from improved collections and the decrease in inventories resulted primarily from increased fourth quarter shipments in 2009 over the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Payments for restructuring actions, principally severance costs and lease and other expenses of real estate consolidation, used cash of $51 million during 2009. Cash payments for income taxes totaled $330 million in 2009. During 2009, the companys primary investing activities included acquisitions and the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The company expended $637 million for acquisitions and $200 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. Financial Statement Index 44 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) The companys financing activities used $558 million of cash during 2009, principally for the extinguishment of debt and the repurchase of $415 million of the companys common stock, offset in part by net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $748 million. In December 2009, the company redeemed all of the $300 million principal outstanding on its 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a redemption price of 103.375% for a total cash outlay of $317 million including accrued interest. Also in December 2009, the company repurchased in a tender offer $282 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at $2,072.4743 per $1,000 principal amount for a total cash outlay of $587 million including accrued and unpaid interest. The companys financing activities also included $54 million of proceeds of employee stock option exercises. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The company did not use special purpose entities or other off balance sheet financing arrangements in 2009 2011 except for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees disclosed in the table below. Of the amounts disclosed in the table below for letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other guarantees, $3.7 million relates to guarantees of the performance of third parties, principally in connection with businesses that were sold. The balance relates to guarantees of the companys own performance, primarily in the ordinary course of business. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The table below summarizes, by period due or expiration of commitment, the companys contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2011. Payments due by Period or Expiration of Commitment (In millions) 2012 2013 and 2014 2015 and 2016 2017 and Thereafter Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Debt principal, including short term debt (a) $ 1,268.3 $ 705.2 $ 2,609.6 $ 2,400.9 $ 6,984.0 Interest 192.8 374.4 293.0 456.0 1,316.2 Capital lease obligations 0.4 0.6 1.0 Operating lease obligations 112.4 153.8 76.9 62.6 405.7 Unconditional purchase obligations (b) 234.6 6.3 1.9 242.8 Letters of credit and bank guarantees 101.7 11.4 1.2 3.2 117.5 Surety bonds and other guarantees 40.6 15.0 4.1 59.7 Pension obligations on balance sheet 25.2 55.3 60.5 205.5 346.5 Asset retirement obligations 3.5 4.6 6.0 9.8 23.9 Acquisition related contingent consideration accrued on balance sheet 0.9 0.6 0.1 0.1 1.7 Other (c) 4.7 4.7 $ 1,985.1 $ 1,327.2 $ 3,053.3 $ 3,138.1 $ 9,503.7 (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for debt and do not include any deferred issuance costs. (b) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable at any time without penalty. (c) Obligation represents funding commitments pursuant to investments held by the company. Financial Statement Index 45 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) Reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $120 million have not been included in the above table due to the inability to predict the timing of tax audit resolutions. The company has no material commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment but expects that for 2012, such expenditures for its existing business will approximate $300 to $325 million. In disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and related legal fees. The company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. The company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Item 1. Business Environmental Matters for a discussion of these liabilities. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. The company has periodically hedged interest rate risks of fixed rate instruments with offsetting interest rate swaps. Additionally, the company uses short term forward and option contracts primarily to hedge certain balance sheet and operational exposures resulting from changes in currency exchange rates. Such exposures result from purchases, sales, cash and intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. The currency exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in euro, British pounds sterling, Chinese yuan, Australian dollars and Japanese yen. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. Interest Rates The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the companys debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2011, the companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The fair market value of the companys fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2011 was $7.39 billion (see Note 12). Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2011 would increase by approximately $342 million. If interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points, the fair value of the companys debt at December 31, 2011 would decrease by approximately $321 million. Financial Statement Index 46 Table of Contents THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (continued) Currency Exchange Rates The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar as permanent. The companys investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the companys international subsidiaries are principally denominated in euro, Swedish krona, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollars, Danish krone, and Swiss francs. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the companys net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders equity. A 10% depreciation in year end 2011 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders equity of $761 million. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in year end 2011 non functional currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an unrealized gain on forward currency exchange contracts of $30 million. A 10% appreciation in year end 2011 non functional currency exchange rates related to the companys contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency exchange contracts of $30 million. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. Certain of the companys cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year end 2011 non functional currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $10 million on the companys net income. 
 
