FILE:WM/WM-8K-20040429165629.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     The Company issued a press release on April 29, 2004 announcing its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
     The Company has presented its free cash flow for the quarter and its projection of the 2004 full-year free cash flow in the earnings release. Free cash flow is a "non-GAAP" financial measure under Regulation G. The components of free cash flow are computed by using amounts that are determined in accordance with GAAP. As part of our press release information we provided a reconciliation of our free cash flow for the first quarter 2004 to net cash provided by operating activities for the same period, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure. The reconciliation consists of subtracting capital expenditures from net cash provided by operating activities and adding back proceeds from divestitures, net of cash divested, and other sales of assets.
     Our forecast of free cash flow for the year is $900 million to $1 billion. That forecast is based on estimated projections of net cash provided by operating activities of over $2.1 billion, capital expenditures of $1.15 billion to $1.25 billion and proceeds from divestitures, net of cash divested, and other sales of assets of over $50 million for the full year 2004.
     The Company included its free cash flow and the forecasted free cash flow in the release because it believes that investors are interested in the cash produced by the Company from non-financing activities that is available, or will be available, for uses such as the Company's acquisition program, its share repurchase program, its scheduled debt reduction and the payment of dividends. However, because our measurement of free cash flow is not based on any standardized methodology prescribed by GAAP, it is not necessarily comparable to similar measures presented by other companies.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Cherie Rice 713.512.6548 Media: Sarah Simpson 713.394.2154
WMI #04-14
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2004. Revenues for the quarter were $2.90 billion as compared to $2.73 billion in the year ago period, or an increase of 6.0%. Net income for the quarter was $152 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, as compared to $61 million, or $0.10 per diluted share in the prior year period. Net income before considering a favorable $8 million cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for the quarter was $144 million, or $0.25 per diluted share. In the 2003 quarter, net income before considering unfavorable cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles of $46 million was $107 million, or $0.18 per diluted share. Net income before cumulative changes increased 34.6% in 2004 as compared to the prior year's quarter.
HOUSTON  April 29, 2004 
The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2004 is related entirely to final implementation of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, ("FIN 46"). In 2003 the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles was primarily related to the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, ("SFAS 143"), partially offset by accounting policy changes related to certain maintenance activities and loss contracts.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
"The progress we have made and continue to make here at Waste Management is evident in our financial results," commented Chairman of the Board A. Maurice Myers. "One of our key goals during the past year was to initiate growth in our customer base and our revenues. The combination of a more focused sales force, a more active acquisition program and a disciplined pricing strategy has accomplished that goal for the Company. Additionally, our focus on reducing controllable costs and leveraging our infrastructure continues to favorably affect our operating results."
 
Key Highlights for the Quarter
Chief Executive Officer David P. Steiner stated, "The current year is off to a strong start in many respects. Free cash flow generated in the quarter was in excess of $300 million. Year-over-year roll-off and landfill volume comparisons improved each month as we progressed through the first quarter and have remained quite favorable into April. Our price increase program continues to reward us with good results, and recycling commodity prices are strong. On the cost side of the equation, we continue to reduce the number of routes and trucks required to service our customers, and fleet maintenance costs per hour showed strong progress in March. We intend to maintain our focus on reducing our overall cost structure while also growing profitable revenues as we move through the upcoming quarters.
(a)
"Our most important financial measure, free cash flow, is still anticipated to be in the range of $900 million to $1 billion. As outlined earlier in the year, this free cash flow will be allocated to our annual dividends of $0.75 per share, accretive tuck-in acquisitions and our stock repurchase program. In the first quarter we did not initiate any stock repurchases, but we still plan to repurchase $400 to $500 million of common stock in 2004, beginning the repurchases during the current quarter."
(a)
(a)
Steiner added, "We have been experiencing a seasonal upturn in volumes, and based on March and April volumes we believe we are beginning to see early signs of an improving economy. We're working diligently to ensure that we can be responsive to higher customer demand during the coming months, while at the same time actively managing our costs. We will continue to attack those areas of cost we have identified for improvement and focus on improving the performance of our bottom quartile performers."
(a) The Company included its free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, herein because the amount of cash produced by the Company from non-financing activities that is available for uses such as the Company's acquisition program, its share repurchase program, its scheduled debt reduction and the payment of dividends is important to its capital allocation process and its goal of providing returns to its shareholders. The Company believes that this measure, which is used internally by management, is important to its investors. Free cash flow is defined by the Company as:
 
(b) Average yield is the same measure that the Company has previously referred to as price. The change in nomenclature has been made to recognize that this component of internal revenue growth includes not only price increases, but also price decreases to retain customers, change in average price from new and lost business, and certain average price changes related to the overall mix of types of services provided and the geographic locations where the services are provided.
The Company has scheduled an investor and analyst conference call for later today to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the information on the conference call. The call will begin at 10:00 a.m. eastern time, 9:00 a.m. central time, and is open to the public. To listen to the conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, go to the Waste Management Website at , and select "1Q2004 Earnings Webcast." You may also listen to the conference call by telephone by contacting the conference call operator at (877) 710-6139, 5-10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 6388827." For those unable to listen to the live call, a replay will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m. central time April 29 through 5:00 p.m. on May 13. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the Waste Management Website at . To hear a telephonic replay of the call, dial (800) 642-1687 and enter reservation code 6388827.
http://www.wm.com
th
th
http://www.wm.com
Waste Management, Inc. is its industry's leading provider of comprehensive waste management and environmental services. Based in Houston, the Company serves municipal, commercial, industrial, and residential customers throughout North America.
Certain statements contained in this press release include statements that are "forward-looking statements." Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2004 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. However, they are not the only risks that the Company faces. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In addition, the Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data relating to future periods. Such estimates and other information are the Company's expectations at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing such estimates the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or provide any other information relating to such estimates. The following are some of the risks we face:
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.
 
 
 
 
 
 


