FILE:WM/WM-8K-20051027110003.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 27, 2005, Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2005. On the same date, the Company held a conference call, which was open to the public, to discuss these results. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1. A replay of the conference call is available beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. central time on October 28 through 5:00 p.m. central time on November 10. The replay of the call may be heard over the Internet, by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com, or by telephone by dialing 800-642-1687 and entering conference code 9843424.
th
th
     The Company is disclosing on its earnings conference call for the third quarter of 2005 the following non-GAAP financial measures: (i) free cash flow; (ii) adjusted earnings per share growth, (iii) adjusted income from operations as a percentage of revenue (or adjusted EBIT margins), and (iv) adjusted EBITDA margins. The Company's calculation of EBIT, or earnings before interest and tax, is the same measure as income from operations as presented on the Company's income statement. EBIT margin represents total operating income as a percentage of revenue. The Company believes that providing investors with these non-GAAP financial measures gives investors additional information to enable them to assess, in the way management assesses, the Company's current and continuing operations. Investors are urged to take into account GAAP measures as well as non-GAAP measures in evaluating the Company. Whenever the Company uses a non-GAAP financial measure, it provides a reconciliation of such measure to what it believes to be the most closely comparable GAAP financial measure.
     A reconciliation of (x) free cash flow to the Company's GAAP reported cash flows from operating activities, which is the most comparable GAAP financial measure, (y) adjusted earnings per share to the Company's GAAP reported earnings per share, and (z) adjusted income from operations to the Company's GAAP reported income from operations, and corresponding income from operations as a percentage of revenue (or EBIT margin) calculations are included in the schedules to the press release that is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1. The Company's reconciliation of the non-GAAP measure of adjusted EBITDA margins is as follows:
Adjusted EBITDA Margins
     The Company defines EBITDA as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization and calculates that measure by adding depreciation and amortization charges back to income from operations. EBITDA margin represents EBITDA, as defined, as a percentage of operating revenues. On the earnings call, the Company will disclose that its EBITDA margin increased by nearly 100 basis points to 25.6 percent in the third quarter of 2005 from the prior year quarter, after adjusting to exclude the impact of restructuring charges and assets impairment and unusual items. The following table reconciles these non-GAAP financial measures to their comparable GAAP financial measures (dollars in millions):
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On October 27, 2005, the Company issued a press release (the "Increased Dividend Release") announcing that the Company's Board of Directors had approved a 10% increase in its quarterly dividend, raising the amount to $0.22 per share compared to the $0.20 per share paid in 2005. Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, the Company expects to increase its quarterly dividends to a total of $0.88 per share per year, which would be an increase of $0.08 per share per year compared to the dividends declared in 2005. A copy of the Increased Dividend Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Greg Nikkel  713.265.1358 Media: Lynn Brown  713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.WM.com
WMI #05-20
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2005. Revenues for the quarter were $3.38 billion as compared with $3.27 billion in the year ago period, an increase of 3.1%. Net income for the quarter was $215 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, compared with $302 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, in the prior year period.
HOUSTON  October 27, 2005 
The Company noted several items that impacted the results for the current quarter:
Combined, these items decreased third quarter 2005 after-tax earnings by $40 million, or $0.07 per diluted share. Without the impact of these items, net income for the quarter would have been $255 million, or $0.45 per diluted share.
 
The prior year's third quarter earnings included an after-tax benefit of $71 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, from favorable tax audit settlements and an after-tax benefit of $1 million from restructuring and asset impairments and unusual items. Without the favorable impact of the tax audit settlements and restructuring and asset impairments and unusual items, net income in last year's quarter would have been $230 million, or $0.40 per diluted share.
Excluding the impact of these items in the current and prior year quarters, earnings per share grew 12.5% and income from operations as a percent of revenue grew by approximately 120 basis points .
(a)
"Our goals at Waste Management are solid earnings growth, margin expansion and increased free cash flow that we can return to shareholders. In the third quarter we delivered on all of those goals, due to strong pricing and operational savings," said David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management.
"Our internal revenue growth from yield on base business increased 2.7% in the third quarter compared with the prior year quarter as we continued to produce strong results from our pricing excellence initiatives. This is the highest level we have achieved in years and it marks the third consecutive quarter in which internal revenue growth from yield has exceeded 2%. If we include the $50 million we obtained through our redesigned fuel surcharge program, internal revenue growth from yield was 4.3%. Internal revenue growth from volumes fell 1.6% in our base business due primarily to the absence of significant hurricane related clean-up volumes which existed in the third quarter of 2004. Our pricing excellence programs have also contributed to lower collection volumes, but the 2.7% in revenue growth from yield more than offsets this decline.
"We also improved our cost results as a percent of revenue, which is particularly gratifying given the sharp increase we have seen in diesel fuel prices. Operating expenses as a percent of revenue improved by 50 basis points as compared with the prior year quarter. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue also improved by 50 basis points versus last year's quarter.
"We produced free cash flow of $385 million in the quarter, bringing us to $1.12 billion through the first nine months of the year. We continued our commitment to return cash to our shareholders by purchasing $295 million of shares in the quarter and paying $111 million in cash dividends. In addition, we have announced a 10% increase to our quarterly dividend program for 2006.
(a)
"Moreover, we were able to settle our ongoing defense cost obligations to certain former officers of the old Waste Management in connection with their settlement of legacy litigation brought against them by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our portion of the total settlement fund was $26.8 million and we worked to obtain a court order that $27.5 million of the settlement fund would be distributed to our shareholders. That distribution will be made to our shareholders of record as of August 25, 2005. This settlement is good for our shareholders and good for our company going forward."
The Company also noted that the impact of hurricanes Katrina and Rita reduced earnings per diluted share by approximately $0.01 in the third quarter of 2005 due to lost revenue and increased operating expenses. During the third quarter of 2004, the Company attributed $59
 
million of revenues and $5 million in before tax earnings to the clean-up efforts resulting from the 4 hurricanes that struck Florida during that quarter.
Key Highlights for the Quarter
The Company's definition of EBIT and free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
The Company believes that providing investors with the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted earnings per share growth and adjusted EBIT margins gives investors additional information to enable them to assess, in the way management assesses, the Company's current and continuing operations. The Company included the non-GAAP financial measure of free cash flow because it uses that measure in the management of its business and
 
because it believes that investors are interested in the cash produced by the Company from non-financing activities that is available for uses such as the Company's acquisition program, its share repurchase program, its scheduled debt reduction and the payment of dividends. A reconciliation of (x) free cash flow to the Company's GAAP reported cash flows from operating activities, which is the most comparable GAAP measure, (y) adjusted earnings per share to the Company's GAAP reported earnings per share, and (z) adjusted income from operations to the Company's GAAP reported income from operations, and corresponding income from operations as a percentage of revenue (or EBIT margin) calculations are included in the accompanying schedules. Investors are urged to take into account GAAP measures as well as non-GAAP measures in evaluating the Company.
The Company has scheduled an investor and analyst conference call for later this morning to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the information on the conference call. The call will begin at 10:00 a.m. eastern time, 9:00 a.m. central time, and is open to the public. To listen to the conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, go to the Waste Management Website at , and select "3Q2005 Earnings Report Webcast." You may also listen to the analyst conference call by telephone by contacting the conference call operator 5-10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 9843424." US/Canada Dial-In #: (877) 710-6139. Int'l/Local Dial-In #: (706) 643-7398. For those unable to listen to the live call, a replay will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. CT October 27 through 5:00 p.m. CT on November 10. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the Waste Management Website at . To hear a telephonic replay of the call, dial (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter reservation code 9843424.
http://www.wm.com
th
th
http://www.wm.com
Waste Management, Inc. is its industry's leading provider of comprehensive waste management and environmental services. Based in Houston, the Company serves municipal, commercial, industrial, and residential customers throughout North America.
Certain statements contained in this press release include statements that are "forward-looking statements." Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2005 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. However, they are not the only risks that the Company faces. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In addition, the Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data relating to future periods. Such estimates and other information are the Company's expectations at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing such estimates the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or provide any other information relating to such estimates. The following are some of the risks we face:
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2004 and Part II of the Company's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2005 presentation.
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2005 presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings per share and income from operations as a percent of revenue (or EBIT margin), as adjusted to exclude the impact of the items listed above, have been prepared to highlight and facilitate the users of the Company's financial statements understanding of how management evaluates the results of its operations. It is not intended to replace reported earnings per share and income from operations as prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").

 
Exhibit 99.2
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Greg Nikkel  713.265.1358 Media: Lynn Brown  713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.WM.com
WMI #05-19
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced that its Board of Directors approved a 10% increase in its quarterly dividend program, raising the amount to $0.22 per share compared to the $0.20 per share paid in 2005. Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, the Company expects to increase its quarterly dividends to a total of $0.88 per share per year, which would be an increase of $0.08 per share per year compared to the dividends declared in 2005. Future quarterly dividends must first be declared by its Board of Directors prior to payment.
HOUSTON  October 27, 2005 
"This company is first and foremost a strong and consistent generator of cash flow from operations," said David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management, Inc. "The Board of Directors and management continue to believe that one of our most important duties is to return free cash flow to our shareholders. Based on the current share count, this equates to approximately $485 million in dividend payments on an annual basis beginning in 2006. At the current share price of about $27.55, this dividend produces a yield of 3.2%, which is in the top 25% of the dividend paying companies within the S&P 500."
Steiner continued, "The higher dividend payment remains one of the cornerstones of our capital allocation program, through which the Board of Directors has authorized management to return up to $1.2 billion annually to shareholders in cash dividends and common stock repurchases. This authorization was approved for 2005 through 2007."
The Company noted that it intends to announce in December the record and payment dates for the first payment of the 2006 $0.22 per share quarterly dividend, with the expectation that the first payment of the higher dividend will occur in March of 2006.
Waste Management, Inc. is its industry's leading provider of comprehensive waste management and environmental services. Based in Houston, the Company serves municipal, commercial, industrial, and residential customers throughout North America.
Certain statements contained in this press release include statements that are "forward-looking statements." Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2005 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. However, they are not the only risks that the Company faces. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In addition, the Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data relating to future periods. Such estimates and other information are the Company's expectations at the point in time of
 
issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing such estimates the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or provide any other information relating to such estimates. The following are some of the risks we face:
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2004 and Part II of the Company's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2005.


