FILE:WM/WM-8K-20050808125037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
      On August 4, 2005, Recycle America Alliance, L.L.C. ("RAA"), a majority owned subsidiary of Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company"), entered into an employment agreement with Patrick DeRueda, President of RAA, effective as of March 1, 2005. The Company announced in March that Mr. DeRueda had been named President of RAA, reporting directly to Larry O'Donnell, President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company.
      The agreement is for a term of two years, and automatically renews for successive one-year periods thereafter. During the employment period, Mr. DeRueda shall be paid a minimum base salary of $270,000 per year and shall be entitled to a bonus in accordance with the Company's incentive compensation plan. Mr. DeRueda shall have a target annual bonus of 60% of his base salary, although his actual bonus may range from 0  120% of his base salary, depending on the achievement of certain personal and corporate performance goals. Additionally, Mr. DeRueda shall be entitled to certain perquisites, including an annual automobile allowance, financial planning services, social organization initiation fees and dues and an annual physical examination. Mr. DeRueda shall also be entitled to participate in or receive benefits under any and all plans and programs made available to executive employees of the Company generally.
      In the event of the termination of Mr. DeRueda's employment by the Company, he will be entitled to certain severance payments. Specifically, if Mr. DeRueda is terminated without cause, in addition to the benefits all employees receive, including all accrued but unpaid base salary and payments under applicable Company plans, policies and arrangements, Mr. DeRueda generally is entitled to a cash payment equal to two times his base salary and target bonus; continuation of all health and welfare plan benefits for him and his family for the lesser of two years, his death or until he becomes covered by a subsequent employer; and a pro-rated bonus payment for the year in which he is terminated. In the event Mr. DeRueda is terminated without cause, or leaves the Company for good reason, in connection with a change in control, he generally is entitled to the same benefits that he would receive as described for a termination without cause, except that his cash payment will be three times his base salary and target bonus, benefits will continue for a period of three years and he will receive 100% of the maximum bonus available, pro rated to the date of termination. In the event Mr. DeRueda's employment is terminated by reason of death or total disability, he generally will receive all amounts accrued but unpaid at the date of termination, a pro rated bonus payment and any benefits to which he is entitled pursuant to the plans, policies and arrangements of the Company in accordance with their terms.
      Mr. DeRueda's agreement also contains certain restrictive covenants, including covenants not to compete or solicit Company customers or employees for a period of two years after the termination of his employment, and a covenant not to disparage the Company.
      The terms "cause," "good reason," and "total disability" are all defined in Mr. DeRueda's employment agreement.
      (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 8, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
      This EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into on this 4th day of August, 2005, but as effective as of the date set forth herein, by and between Recycle America Alliance, L.L.C. and Patrick DeRueda (the "Executive"). Recycle America Alliance, L.L.C. is an indirect subsidiary of Waste Management, Inc. ("WMI"). Recycle America Alliance, L.L.C. and all of its affiliates shall be referred to herein as "the Company."
      The Company shall employ Executive, and Executive shall be employed by the Company upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement.
      Executive acknowledges and represents that, any and all prior employment agreements, are terminated, and that any and all obligation of the Company created thereunder, whether express or implied, are null and void and of no further force or effect, and that the only rights, obligations and duties between the Company and Executive are those expressly set forth in this Agreement.
      The period of Executive's employment under this Agreement shall commence on March 1, 2005 ("Employment Date"), and shall continue for a period of two (2) years, and shall automatically be renewed for successive one (1) year periods on each anniversary of the Employment Date thereafter, unless Executive's employment is terminated in accordance with Section 5 below. The period during which Executive is employed hereunder shall be referred to as the "Employment Period."
      Executive shall serve as the President of Recycle America Alliance, L.L.C. In such capacity, Executive shall perform such duties and have the power, authority, and functions commensurate with such position in similarly-sized public companies, and have and possess such other authority and functions as set forth by the Board of Managers of the Company, and as may be assigned to Executive from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer of WMI, the President of WMI, or the Chief Operating Officer of WMI (in any such case, hereinafter referred to as the "Chief Executive Officer").
(a) 
      Executive shall devote substantially all of his working time, attention and energies to the business of the Company, and its affiliated entities. Executive may make and manage his personal investments (provided such investments in other activities do not violate, in any material respect, the provisions of Section 10 of this Agreement), be involved in charitable and professional activities, and, with the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer, serve on boards of other for profit entities, provided such activities do not materially interfere with the performance of his duties hereunder (however, the Chief Executive Officer does not typically allow officers to serve on more than one public company board at a time).
(b) 
      During the Employment Period, the Company shall pay Executive a base salary at the annual rate of Two Hundred Seventy Thousand dollars ($270,000.00) per year, or such higher rate as may be determined from time to time by the Company ("Base Salary"). Such Base Salary shall be paid in accordance with the Company's standard payroll practice for its executive officers. Once increased, Base Salary shall not be reduced.
(a) Base Salary.
      During the Employment Period, Executive will be entitled to participate in an annual incentive compensation plan of the Company, as established by the Compensation Committee of the Board from time to time. The Executive's target annual bonus will be sixty percent (60%) of his Base Salary
(b) Annual Bonus.
 
in effect for such year (the "Target Bonus"), and his actual annual bonus may range from 0% to 120% of Base Salary (., a maximum possible bonus of two times the Target Bonus), and will be determined based upon (i) the achievement of certain corporate performance goals, as may be established and approved by from time to time by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of WMI, and (ii) the achievement of personal performance goals as may be established by Executive's immediate supervisor. The annual bonus for calendar year 2005 will be paid in 2006, if earned, at the same time as similarly situated executive employees of WMI receive or would otherwise receive their bonuses, provided that Executive remains employed through the end of the 2005 calendar year.
i.e
      Subject to the terms of such plans, Executive shall be eligible to participate in or receive benefits under any pension plan, profit sharing plan, salary deferral plan, medical and dental benefits plan, life insurance plan, short-term and long-term disability plans, or any other health, welfare or fringe benefit plan, generally made available by the Company to similarly-situated executive employees. Neither WMI nor the Company shall not be obligated to institute, maintain, or refrain from changing, amending, or discontinuing any benefit plan, or perquisite, so long as such changes are similarly applicable to similarly situated employees generally.
(c) Benefit Plans and Vacation.
      During the Employment Period, Executive shall be entitled to vacation each year in accordance with the Company's policies in effect from time to time, but in no event less than four (4) weeks paid vacation per calendar year.
      The Company shall promptly reimburse Executive for the ordinary and necessary business expenses incurred by Executive in the performance of the duties hereunder in accordance with the Company's customary practices applicable to its executive officers.
(d) Expense Reimbursement.
      Executive shall be entitled to all perquisites provided to Senior Vice Presidents of WMI as approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of WMI, and as they may exist from time to time, including the following:
(e) Other Perquisites.
      Executive's employment hereunder may be terminated during the Employment Period under the following circumstances:
      Executive's employment hereunder shall terminate upon Executive's death.
(a) Death.
      The Company may terminate Executive's employment hereunder upon Executive becoming "Totally Disabled." For purposes of this Agreement, Executive shall be considered "Totally Disabled" if Executive has been physically or mentally incapacitated so as to render Executive incapable of performing the essential functions of Executive's position with or without reasonable accommodation. Executive's receipt of disability benefits under the Company's long-term disability plan or receipt of Social
(b) Total Disability.
 
Security disability benefits shall be deemed conclusive evidence of Total Disability for purpose of this Agreement; provided, however, that in the absence of Executive's receipt of such long-term disability benefits or Social Security benefits, the Company's Board may, in their reasonable discretion (but based upon appropriate medical evidence), determine that Executive is Totally Disabled.
      The Company may terminate Executive's employment hereunder for "Cause" at any time after providing a Notice of Termination for Cause to Executive.
(c) Termination by the Company for Cause.
      Executive may terminate his employment hereunder with or without Good Reason at any time upon written notice to the Company.
(d) Voluntary Termination by Executive.
 
      The Company may terminate Executive's employment hereunder without Cause at any time upon written notice to Executive.
(e) Termination by the Company without Cause.
      Upon any termination of employment for any reason, Executive shall immediately resign from all Board memberships and other positions with the Company or any of its subsidiaries held by him at such time.
(f) Effect of Termination.
      In the event that Executive's employment hereunder is terminated in a manner as set forth in Section 5 above, Executive shall be entitled to the compensation and benefits provided under this Section 6, as applicable to the form of termination:
      In the event that Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's death, the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive's beneficiary or estate:
(a) Termination by Reason of Death.
      In the event that Executive's employment is terminated by the Company by reason of Executive's Total Disability (as determined in accordance with Section 5(b)), the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
(b) Termination by Reason of Total Disability.
 
      In the event that Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for Cause, the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
(c) Termination for Cause.
      In the event that Executive voluntarily terminates employment other than for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
(d) Voluntary Termination by Executive.
      In the event that Executive's employment is terminated by the Company outside a Change in Control Period (as defined in Section 7) for reasons other than death, Total Disability or Cause, or Executive terminates his employment for Good Reason outside of a Change in Control Period, the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
(e) Termination by the Company Without Cause Outside a Change in Control Period; Termination by Executive for Good Reason Outside a Change in Control Period.
 
      Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if within one (1) year of termination of employment of Executive by the Company for any reason other than for Cause, it is determined by Company that Executive could have been terminated for Cause then, to the extent permitted by law:
(f) Suspension and Refund of Termination Benefits for Subsequently Discovered Cause.
      In the event a Change in Control occurs and (x) Executive terminates his employment for Good Reason during a Change in Control Period , or (y) the Company terminates Executive's employment without Cause (and for reason other than Death of Total Disability) during a Change in Control Period, the Company shall, subject to Executive's execution of the Release (as defined in this Section 7), pay the following amounts to Executive:
(a) Certain Terminations During a Change in Control Period.
     
(b) Certain Additional Payments by the Company.
 
 
     
(c) Certain Definitions.
      (i) For purposes of this Agreement, "Change in Control" means the first to occur on or after the date on which this Agreement is first signed, the occurrence of any of the following events:
      (ii) For purposes of this Section 7, "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;
      (iii) For purposes of this Agreement, "Change in Control Period" means the period commencing on the date occurring six months immediately prior to the date on which a Change in Control occurs and ending on the second anniversary of the date on which a Change in Control occurs.
 
      (iv) For purposes of this Agreement, "Exchange Act' means the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time;
      (v) For purposes of this Section 7, "Person" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (1) WMI, (2) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, (3) an employee benefit plan of the Company or WMI, (4) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or (5) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of WMI in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of Common Stock of WMI.
      (vi) For purposes of this Agreement, "Release" means that specific document which the Company shall present to Executive for consideration and execution after any termination of employment pursuant to Section 5(e) and Section 6(e), wherein if he agrees to such, he will irrevocably and unconditionally release and forever discharge WMI, the Company, their respective subsidiaries, affiliates and related parties from any and all causes of action which Executive at that time had or may have had against the Company (excluding any claim for indemnity under this Agreement, any claim under state workers' compensation or unemployment laws, or any claim under COBRA).
      Except as may be provided under this Agreement, or under the terms of any incentive compensation, employee benefit, or fringe benefit plan applicable to Executive at the time of Executive's termination or resignation, Executive shall have no right to receive any other compensation, or to participate in any other plan, arrangement or benefit, with respect to future periods after such termination or resignation.
8. No Other Benefits or Compensation.
      In the event of any termination of employment hereunder, Executive shall be under no obligation to seek other employment, and there shall be no offset against any amounts due Executive under this Agreement on account of any remuneration attributable to any subsequent employment that Executive may obtain. The amounts payable hereunder shall not be subject to setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Company may have against the Executive or others, except upon obtaining by the Company of a final non-appealable judgment against Executive.
9. No Mitigation; No Set-Off.
      All written materials, records, data, and other documents prepared or possessed by Executive during Executive's employment with the Company are the Company's property. All information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions that are conceived, made, developed, or acquired by Executive individually or in conjunction with others during Executive's employment (whether during business hours and whether on the Company's premises or otherwise) which relate to the Company's business, products, or services are the Company's sole and exclusive property. All memoranda, notes, records, files, correspondence, drawings, manuals, models, specifications, computer programs, maps, and all other documents, data, or materials of any type embodying such information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions are the Company's property. At the termination of Executive's employment with the Company for any reason, Executive shall return all of the Company's documents, data, or other Company property to the Company.
(a) Company Property.
      Executive acknowledges that the business of the Company is highly competitive and that the Company has provided and will continue to provide Executive with access to "Confidential Information" relating to the business of the Company, WMI and their respective affiliates.
(b) Confidential Information; Non-Disclosure.
      For purposes of this Agreement, "Confidential Information" means and includes the Company's and WMI's confidential and/or proprietary information and/or trade secrets that have been developed or used and/or will be developed and that cannot be obtained readily by third parties from outside sources. Confidential Information includes, by way of example and without limitation, the following information regarding customers, employees, contractors, and the industry not generally known to the public; strategies,
 
methods, books, records, and documents; technical information concerning products, equipment, services, and processes; procurement procedures and pricing techniques; the names of and other information concerning customers, investors, and business affiliates (such as contact name, service provided, pricing for that customer, type and amount of services used, credit and financial data, and/or other information relating to the Company's and/or WMI's relationship with that customer); pricing strategies and price curves; positions, plans, and strategies for expansion or acquisitions; budgets; customer lists; research; weather data; financial and sales data; trading methodologies and terms; evaluations, opinions, and interpretations of information and data; marketing and merchandising techniques; prospective customers' names and marks; grids and maps; electronic databases; models; specifications; computer programs; internal business records; contracts benefiting or obligating the Company and/or WMI; bids or proposals submitted to any third party; technologies and methods; training methods and training processes; organizational structure; personnel information, including salaries of personnel; payment amounts or rates paid to consultants or other service providers; and other such confidential or proprietary information. Information need not qualify as a trade secret to be protected as Confidential Information under this Agreement, and the authorized and controlled disclosure of Confidential Information to authorized parties by WMI, and/or the Company in the pursuit of its business will not cause the information to lose its protected status under this Agreement. Executive acknowledges that this Confidential Information constitutes a valuable, special, and unique asset used by WMI and/or the Company or their respective affiliates in their businesses to obtain a competitive advantage over their competitors. Executive further acknowledges that protection of such Confidential Information against unauthorized disclosure and use is of critical importance to WMI, the Company and their respective affiliates in maintaining their competitive position.
      Executive has and will continue to have access to, or knowledge of, Confidential Information of third parties, such as actual and potential customers, suppliers, partners, joint venturers, investors, financing sources, and the like, of WMI, the Company and their respective affiliates.
      The Company also agrees to provide Executive with one or more of the following: access to Confidential Information; specialized training regarding the Company's and/or WMI's methodologies and business strategies, and/or support in the development of goodwill such as introductions, information and reimbursement of customer development expenses consistent with Company policy. The foregoing is not contingent on continued employment, but is contingent upon Executive's use of the Confidential Information access, specialized training, and goodwill support provided by Company for the exclusive benefit of the Company and upon Executive's full compliance with the restrictions on Executive's conduct provided for in this Agreement.
      In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 5(c)(i), Executive agrees that Executive will not after Executive's employment with the Company, make any unauthorized disclosure of any then Confidential Information or specialized training of the Company or its affiliates, or make any use thereof, except in the carrying out of his employment responsibilities hereunder. Executive also agrees to preserve and protect the confidentiality of third party Confidential Information to the same extent, and on the same basis, as the Company's Confidential Information.
      The Company and WMI agree to and shall provide Executive with immediate access to Confidential Information. Ancillary to the rights provided to Executive following employment termination, the Company's and WMI"s provision of Confidential Information, specialized training, and/or goodwill support to Executive, and Executive's agreements, regarding the use of same, and in order to protect the value of the above-referenced stock options, any restricted stock, training, goodwill support and/or the Confidential Information described above, the Company and Executive agree to the following provisions against unfair competition. Executive agrees that for a period of two (2) years following the termination of employment for any reason ("Restricted Term"), Executive will not, directly or indirectly, for Executive or for others, anywhere in the United States (including all parishes in Louisiana, and Puerto Rico) (the "Restricted Area") do the following, unless expressly authorized to do so in writing by the Chief Executive Officer:
(c) Unfair Competition Restrictions.
 
      It is further agreed that during the Restricted Term, Executive cannot engage in any of the enumerated prohibited activities in the Restricted Area by means of telephone, telecommunications, satellite communications, correspondence, or other contact from outside the Restricted Area. Executive further understands that the foregoing restrictions may limit his ability to engage in certain businesses during the Restricted Term, but acknowledges that these restrictions are necessary to protect the Confidential Information that WMI and the Company have provided to Executive.
      A failure to comply with the foregoing restrictions will create a presumption that Executive is engaging in unfair competition. Executive agrees that this Section defining unfair competition with the Company and/or WMI does not prevent Executive from using and offering the skills that Executive possessed prior to receiving access to Confidential Information, confidential training, and knowledge from the Company and/or WMI. This Agreement creates an advance approval process, and nothing herein is intended, or will be construed as, a general restriction against the pursuit of lawful employment in violation of any controlling state or federal laws. Executive shall be permitted to engage in activities that would otherwise be prohibited by this covenant if such activities are determined in the sole discretion of the Chief Executive Officer to be no material threat to the legitimate business interests of the Company and/or WMI.
      For a period of two (2) years following the termination of employment for any reason, Executive will not call on, service, or solicit competing business from customers of WMI, the Company and their respective affiliates whom Executive, within the previous twelve (12) months, (i) had or made contact with, or (ii) had access to information and files about, or induce or encourage any such customer or other source of ongoing business to stop doing business with WMI or the Company.
(d) Non-Solicitation of Customers.
      During Executive's employment, and for a period of two (2) years following the termination of employment for any reason, Executive will not, either directly or indirectly, call on, solicit, encourage, or induce any other employee or officer of WMI, the Company or their respective affiliates whom Executive had contact with, knowledge of, or association within the course of employment with the Company to terminate his employment, and will not assist any other person or entity in such a solicitation.
(e) Non-Solicitation of Employees.
      Executive covenants and agrees that Executive shall not engage in any pattern of conduct that involves the making or publishing of written or oral statements or remarks (including, without limitation, the repetition or distribution of derogatory rumors, allegations, negative reports or comments) which are disparaging, deleterious or damaging to the integrity, reputation or good will of the Company or WMI, their respective management, or of management of corporations affiliated with the Company or WMI.
(f) Non-Disparagement.
      Executive agrees that any breach by Executive of any of the covenants set forth in Section 10 hereof during Executive's employment by the Company, shall be grounds for immediate dismissal of Executive for Cause pursuant to Section 5(c)(i), which shall be in addition to and not exclusive of any and all other rights and remedies the Company may have against Executive.
(a) Termination of Employment and Forfeiture of Compensation.
      Executive acknowledges that a breach of the covenants set forth in Section 10 hereof will cause irreparable damage to the Company and/or WMI with respect to which the Company's and/or WMI's remedy at law for damages will be inadequate. Therefore, in the event of breach or anticipatory breach of the covenants set forth in this section by Executive, Executive and the Company agree that the
(b) Right to Injunction.
 
Company shall be entitled to seek the following particular forms of relief, in addition to remedies otherwise available to it at law or equity: (A) injunctions, both preliminary and permanent, enjoining or restraining such breach or anticipatory breach and Executive hereby consents to the issuance thereof forthwith and without bond by any court of competent jurisdiction; and (B) recovery of all reasonable sums as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction expended and costs, including reasonable attorney's fees, incurred by the Company and/or WMI to enforce the covenants set forth in this section.
      The covenants contained in Section 10 hereof constitute a series of separate but ancillary covenants, one for each applicable State in the United States and the District of Columbia, and one for each applicable foreign country. If in any judicial proceeding, a court shall hold that any of the covenants set forth in Section 10 exceed the time, geographic, or occupational limitations permitted by applicable laws, Executive and the Company agree that such provisions shall and are hereby reformed to the maximum time, geographic, or occupational limitations permitted by such laws. Further, in the event a court shall hold unenforceable any of the separate covenants deemed included herein, then such unenforceable covenant or covenants shall be deemed eliminated from the provisions of this Agreement for the purpose of such proceeding to the extent necessary to permit the remaining separate covenants to be enforced in such proceeding. Executive and the Company further agree that the covenants in Section 10 shall each be construed as a separate agreement independent of any other provisions of this Agreement, and the existence of any claim or cause of action by Executive against the Company whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of any of the covenants of Section 10.
(c) Separability of Covenants.
      The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Executive to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law for any action or inaction of Executive while serving as an officer and director of the Company or, at the Company's request, as an officer or director of any other entity or as a fiduciary of any benefit plan. This provision includes the obligation and undertaking of the Executive to reimburse the Company for any fees advanced by the Company on behalf of the Executive should it later be determined that Executive was not entitled to have such fees advanced by the Company under Delaware law. The Company shall cover the Executive under directors and officers liability insurance both during and, while potential liability exists, after the Employment Period in the same amount and to the same extent as the Company covers its other officers and directors.
      Except with respect to enforcement of the covenants contained in Section 11 herein, the parties agree that any dispute relating to this Agreement, or to the breach of this Agreement, arising between Executive and the Company shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the Federal Arbitration Act and the commercial arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association ("AAA"), or any other mutually agreed upon arbitration service. The arbitration proceeding, including the rendering of an award, shall take place in Houston, Texas, and shall be administered by the AAA (or any other mutually agreed upon arbitration service). The arbitrator shall be jointly selected by the Company and Executive within thirty (30) days of the notice of dispute, or if the parties cannot agree, in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the AAA (or any other mutually agreed upon arbitration service). All fees and expenses associated with the arbitration shall be borne equally by Executive and the Company during the arbitration, pending final decision by the arbitrator as to who should bear fees, unless otherwise ordered by the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall not be authorized to create a cause of action or remedy not recognized by applicable state or federal law. The award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties without appeal or review, except as permitted by the arbitration laws of the State of Texas. The award shall be enforceable through a court of law upon motion of either party.
 
      If at any time during the term of this Agreement or afterwards there should arise any dispute as to the validity, interpretation or application of any term or condition of this Agreement, the Company agrees, upon written demand by Executive (and Executive shall be entitled upon application to any court of competent jurisdiction, to the entry of a mandatory injunction, without the necessity of posting any bond with respect thereto, compelling the Company) to promptly provide sums sufficient to pay on a current basis (either directly or by reimbursing Executive) Executive's costs and reasonable attorney's fees (including expenses of investigation and disbursements for the fees and expenses of experts, etc.) incurred by Executive in connection with any such dispute or any litigation, provided that Executive shall repay any such amounts paid or advanced if Executive is not the prevailing party with respect to at least one material claim or issue in such dispute or litigation. The provisions of this Section 11, without implication as to any other section hereof, shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement and of Executive's employment hereunder.
      If any amounts which are required, or determined to be paid or payable, or reimbursed or reimbursable, to Executive under this Agreement (or any other plan, agreement, policy or arrangement with the Company) are not so paid promptly at the times provided herein or therein, such amounts shall accrue interest, compounded daily, at an 8% annual percentage rate, from the date such amounts were required or determined to have been paid or payable, reimbursed or reimbursable to Executive, until such amounts and any interest accrued thereon are finally and fully paid, provided, however, that in no event shall the amount of interest contracted for, charged or received hereunder, exceed the maximum non-usurious amount of interest allowed by applicable law.
      The Company may withhold from any compensation and benefits payable under this Agreement all applicable federal, state, local, or other taxes.
      All payments provided under this Agreement, other than payments made pursuant to a plan which provides otherwise, shall be paid from the general funds of the Company, and no special or separate fund shall be established, and no other segregation of assets made, to assure payment. Executive shall have no right, title or interest whatever in or to any investments which the Company may make to aid the Company in meeting its obligations hereunder. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company hereunder, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured creditor of the Company.
      Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, representatives, successors and assigns. This Agreement shall not be assignable by Executive (but any payments due hereunder which would be payable at a time after Executive's death shall be paid to Executive's designated beneficiary or, if none, his estate) and shall be assignable by the Company only to any financially solvent corporation or other entity resulting from the reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation or entity or any corporation or entity to or with which the Company's business or substantially all of its business or assets may be sold, exchanged or transferred, and it must be so assigned by the Company to, and accepted as binding upon it by, such other corporation or entity in connection with any such reorganization, merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or transfer in a writing delivered to Executive in a form reasonably acceptable to Executive (the provisions of this sentence also being applicable to any successive such transaction).
 
      This Agreement shall supersede any and all existing oral or written agreements, representations, or warranties between Executive, the Company, WMI or any their respective subsidiaries or affiliated entities relating to the terms of Executive's employment. It may not be amended except by a written agreement signed by both Executive and the Company.
      This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas applicable to agreements made and to be performed in that State, without regard to its conflict of laws provisions.
      Any notice, consent, request or other communication made or given in connection with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by facsimile or by hand delivery, to those listed below at their following respective addresses or at such other address as each may specify by notice to the others:
      To the Company:
      To Executive:
      The failure of a party to insist upon strict adherence to any term of this Agreement on any occasion shall not be considered a waiver thereof or deprive that party of the right thereafter to insist upon strict adherence to that term or any other term of this Agreement.
(a) Waiver.
      Subject to Section 11 hereof, if any term or provision of this Agreement is declared illegal or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction and cannot be modified to be enforceable, such term or provision shall immediately become null and void, leaving the remainder of this Agreement in full force and effect.
(b) Separability.
      Section headings are used herein for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the meaning of any provision of this Agreement.
(c) Headings.
      Whenever the context so requires, the use of the singular shall be deemed to include the plural and vice versa.
(d) Rules of Construction.
      This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, and such counterparts will together constitute but one Agreement.
(e) Counterparts.
 
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is EXECUTED as of the date first set forth above and effective as set forth therein.
/s/ Patrick DeRueda
 
Patrick DeRueda
("Executive")


