FILE:WM/WM-8K-20050728082951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 28, 2005, Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2005. On the same date, the Company held a conference call, which was open to the public, to discuss these results. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1. A replay of the conference call is available beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. Central time on July 28 through 5:00 p.m. Central time on August 11th. The replay of the call may be heard over the Internet, by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com, or by telephone by dialing 800-642-1687 and entering conference code 7068485.
th
     The Company is disclosing on its earnings conference call the following non-GAAP financial measures for the second quarter of 2005: (i) free cash flow; (ii) adjusted EBIT margins; and (iii) adjusted EBITDA margins. The Company believes that providing investors with these non-GAAP financial measures gives investors additional information to enable them to assess, in the way management assesses, the Company's current and continuing operations. Investors are urged to take into account GAAP measures as well as non-GAAP measures in evaluating the Company. Whenever the Company uses a non-GAAP financial measure, it provides a reconciliation of such measure to what it believes to be the most closely applicable GAAP financial measure. A reconciliation of free cash flow to cash flows from operating activities is included in the schedules to the press release that is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1. The Company's reconciliation of the other non-GAAP measures disclosed by the Company are as follows:
Adjusted EBIT Margins
     The Company's calculation of EBIT, or earnings before interest and tax, is the same measure as income from operations as presented on the Company's income statement. EBIT margin represents total operating income as a percentage of revenue. The Company disclosed that EBIT margins had increased by 10 basis points over second quarter 2004 results after excluding the impact of impairments, gains on sales of assets and other unusual items in both years. The following table reconciles the non-GAAP measure to the GAAP measure (dollars in millions):
Table of Contents
Adjusted EBITDA Margins
     The Company defines EBITDA as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization and calculates that measure by adding depreciation and amortization charges back to income from operations. EBITDA margin represents EBITDA, as defined, as a percentage of revenue. The Company disclosed that the EBITDA margins of its Eastern, Western, Southern and Midwest Groups collectively increased by 10 basis points as compared to the prior year period, after adjusting for asset impairments and the gains on sales of businesses. The following table reconciles these measures (dollars in millions):
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Results of Pricing Study
     Below are results of the Company's pricing study, initiated in January 2005, as of June 30, 2005. All price increases implemented by the Company since January 1, 2005 are included in the results presented. The percentages of tons that received price increases included in the tables below include all third-party tons received at the facilities. The amounts shown as percentages of tons lost due to price increases in the tables are the amounts that the Company has estimated were lost due to price increases based on customer feedback and analyses of monthly volume reports.
     The Company intends to use the information gathered from the pricing study to further develop and implement price increase plans throughout the rest of its landfill and transfer station operations over the next several months. On a going forward basis, the Company intends to report results from the pricing study only for those facilities with material variances in volumes due to price increases and may also report results from the implementation of price increase plans throughout the rest of the Company's facilities.
Table of Contents
Landfills
Transfer Stations
Table of Contents
Market Areas*
*Results for the Market Areas include essentially all of the transfer stations and landfills within such Market Areas, including the King George and Amelia Landfills in the Virginia/Maryland Market Area, Autumn Hills and Westside Landfills in the Michigan Market Area, Atascocita Landfill in the Houston Market Area and Northwest Regional Landfill in the Arizona Market Area that were originally included in the 30 landfills chosen for the study. These six landfills and transfer stations are included in the Market Area results and are no longer being tracked on an individual basis in the Landfills and Transfer Stations tables above.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1:       Press Release dated July 28, 2005
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Greg Nikkel  713.265.1358 Media: Lynn Brown  713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.WM.com
WMI #05-15
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2005. Revenues for the quarter were $3.29 billion as compared with $3.14 billion in the year ago period, an increase of 4.8%. Net income for the quarter was $527 million, or $0.92 per diluted share, compared with $216 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, in the prior year period.
HOUSTON  July 28, 2005 
The Company noted several items that impacted the current quarter's results:
Combined, these items improved second quarter 2005 after-tax earnings by $308 million, or $0.54 per diluted share. Without the impact of these items, net income for the quarter would have been $219 million, or $0.38 per diluted share.
For the six months ended June 30, 2005, Waste Management reported operating revenues of $6.33 billion, as compared with $6.03 billion for the comparable period last year. Net income was $677 million and diluted earnings per share was $1.18 for the six months ended June 30, 2005, as compared with $368 million and $0.63, respectively, for the same period in 2004. The 2004 results include the favorable impact of the cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $8 million, or $0.01 per diluted share. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2004 was related to the final implementation of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, .
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
"We saw the continuation of a number of encouraging trends during the second quarter. Strong pricing was again a driver of our financial results, as our internal revenue growth on base business due to yield reached 2.1% for the second consecutive quarter. The revenue growth from yield was 3.1% if we include the $32 million obtained through our fuel surcharge program," stated David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management. "We continued to make progress in our labor productivity, in our collection fleet maintenance programs and in our safety and risk management costs. As of July 1, we have also implemented a redesigned fuel surcharge program to capture the full impact that fuel prices have on our business. While our previous fuel surcharge program has historically recovered a large percentage of our increased direct fuel costs, it did not recoup the substantial indirect fuel-related cost increases paid to our subcontract haulers. We expect that our new fuel surcharge program will recover increases in subcontractor costs related to higher fuel prices."
Plans for Divesting of Certain Operations and Restructuring
The Company also announced its plan to divest under-performing or non-strategic operations. To date, operations identified for divestiture represent over $400 million in annual revenue. These operations consist primarily of collection businesses and transfer stations. These businesses generated approximately $215 million in gross revenue and $11 million in operating income for the first six months of 2005.
Steiner continued, "Improving the quality of our assets has been one of my top priorities. We have been studying our under-performing business operations with the objective to either fix or sell them. Our extensive reviews have been based on a number of financial and operational criteria and on how operating units fit into our strategic business model. This step is consistent with our plans to increase our internalization rates and improve our operating margins. We will also be looking for opportunities to reinvest the divestiture proceeds to grow our business in areas with higher margins."
The Company also unveiled plans to simplify its organizational structure in order to increase the accountability of its Market Areas, to streamline business decisions and to reduce costs at the Group and Corporate offices. The new organizational structure will place more emphasis on the day-to-day decision making that occurs at the Company's Market Areas, which encompass major metropolitan or geographical regions across the country.
President and Chief Operating Officer Larry O'Donnell stated, "We have essentially eliminated the extra layer between our Corporate office and our field operations. We have also eliminated the Canadian Group office, which reduces the number of our operating groups from seven to six. This restructuring will make us a more nimble organization, bring us closer to our customers and enable us to move our best people into areas where they can directly impact day-to-day business decisions. The standard operating practices that have been implemented across the organization prepare us well for this change. We expect the streamlined structure will enhance our competitiveness and also contribute to the achievement of our financial goals."
Steiner added, "Having the President and Chief Operating Officer position separate from the CEO role enables Larry to spend more time working directly with the Market Areas. This new structure gives corporate a more direct line of sight to the Market Areas, with the goal of providing the Market Areas the support they need to accomplish their business objectives."
 
The reorganization will eliminate about 600 positions, and the Company anticipates taking a third quarter pre-tax restructuring charge to earnings in the range of $20 to $30 million. The reduction in workforce and other related cost savings, before the restructuring charge, are projected to create pre-tax cost savings estimated to be about $30 million during 2005 and $70 million annually beginning in 2006.
Key Highlights for the Quarter
Steiner continued "During the second quarter, we also maintained the momentum of our pricing initiatives as demonstrated by the results of our internal revenue growth from yield. We saw 1.2% volume growth in the quarter, two-thirds of which occurred in very low margin lines of business, which negatively impacted our overall margins."
Steiner concluded "Our 2005 EPS guidance was predicated on maintaining solid volumes along with our price improvements. We are meeting our expectations with regard to price, but we did see a downturn in volumes in May, June and in the first three weeks of July. If we don't see improvement in volumes, we will have to see accelerated results from our pricing, productivity and other cost initiatives if we are to meet our goals for the third quarter and the year. Given that, we believe that it is more likely that we will be at the lower end of the analysts' current range rather than the mid-to-upper end of the range. It is not uncommon for a price leader to see volumes decrease over the short term, but we believe that our current pricing program is in the best long term interest of our company and our shareholders."
 
The Company included its free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, herein because it uses that measure in the management of its business and because it believes that investors are interested in the cash produced by the Company from non-financing activities that is available for uses such as the Company's acquisition program, its share repurchase program, its scheduled debt reduction and the payment of dividends. The Company defines free cash flow as:
(a)
     Net cash provided by operating activities
     Less, capital expenditures
 
     Plus, proceeds from divestitures of businesses, net of cash divested, and other sales of assets For the purposes of the Company's full year projection, cash costs of the restructuring are not included in full year projections.
The Company's definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. The Company has reconciled its free cash flow as presented herein to cash flow from operations, which is the most comparable GAAP measure, in the accompanying schedules.
The Company has scheduled an investor and analyst conference call for later this morning to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the information on the conference call. The call will begin at 10:00 a.m. eastern time, 9:00 a.m. central time, and is open to the public. To listen to the conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, go to the Waste Management Website at , and select "2Q2005 Earnings Report Webcast." You may also listen to the analyst conference call by telephone by contacting the conference call operator 5-10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 7068485." US/Canada Dial-In #: (877) 710-6139. Int'l/Local Dial-In #: (706) 643-7398. For those unable to listen to the live call, a replay will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. CT July 28 through 5:00 p.m. CT on August 11. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the Waste Management Website at . To hear a telephonic replay of the call, dial (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter reservation code 7068485.
http://www.wm.com
th
th
http://www.wm.com
Waste Management, Inc. is its industry's leading provider of comprehensive waste management and environmental services. Based in Houston, the Company serves municipal, commercial, industrial, and residential customers throughout North America.
Certain statements contained in this press release include statements that are "forward-looking statements." Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2005 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. However, they are not the only risks that the Company faces. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In addition, the Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data relating to future periods. Such estimates and other information are the Company's expectations at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing such estimates the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or provide any other information relating to such estimates. The following are some of the risks we face:
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2004 and Part II of the Company's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2005 presentation.
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2005 presentation.
 
 


