FILE:WM/WM-8K-20061025084142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release this morning, October 25, 2006, announcing its earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1.
     Additionally, as announced in a press release dated September 25, 2006, the Company is holding a conference call, open to the public, to discuss these results, from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Central time this morning. The call will be webcast live, and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. The call may also be listened to live by calling (877) 710-6139 and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 7044631." A replay of the conference call will be available through 5:00 p.m. Central time on November 8, 2006. The replay of the call may be heard over the Internet, by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com, or by telephone by dialing 800-642-1687 and entering conference code 7044631.
     On the conference call, management of the Company is expected to discuss its results of operations using certain non-GAAP financial measures, including: free cash flow and full-year forecasted free cash flow; adjusted earnings per diluted share, adjusted earnings per diluted share growth and adjusted earnings per diluted share forecasted for the full year; adjusted income from operations as a percentage of revenue and adjusted income from operations as a percentage of revenue growth. Additionally, on the call, management of the Company may refer to "EBIT margin," which the Company defines as income from operations as a percentage of revenue. The Company has provided an explanation of its use of these non-GAAP measures and has reconciled them to the most comparable GAAP measures in the press release and the schedules thereto, attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Greg Nikkel  713.265.1358 Media: Lynn Brown  713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.wm.com
WMI #06-13
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2006. Revenues for the quarter were $3.44 billion as compared with $3.38 billion in the year ago period, an increase of 2.0%. Net income for the quarter was $300 million, or $0.55 per diluted share, compared with $215 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, in the prior year period, which represents a 45% increase in earnings per diluted share.
HOUSTON  October 25, 2006 
The Company noted one-time items that impacted the results in the current and prior years' third quarters. Results in the current quarter included:
Results in the prior year's third quarter included a net $40 million reduction in net income due primarily to combined charges of $96 million after-tax in asset impairments and unusual items, restructuring charges and additional landfill amortization expense. Partially offsetting these charges was a $56 million after-tax reduction in income tax expense resulting mainly from favorable tax audit settlements.
Excluding these items, net income would have been $296 million, or $0.55 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2006 compared with $255 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, in the prior year quarter, which represents a 22% increase in earnings per diluted share.
(a)
Income from operations as a percent of revenue was 16.2% in the third quarter of 2006. Income from operations as a percent of revenue, as adjusted for the items noted above, increased 150 basis points to 16.8% in the current year's quarter compared with the prior year's quarter.
(a)
"We were very pleased with our results during the quarter as we again exceeded our internal expectations and achieved our primary financial goals of strong earnings growth, margin expansion and strong free cash flow," said David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste
 
Management. "We accomplished these objectives in the third quarter of this year due to the success of our pricing programs combined with a $21 million reduction in our operating expenses compared with the prior year's quarter. As a percent of revenue, we lowered our operating expenses by 180 basis points compared with the third quarter of 2005.
"Our internal revenue growth due to yield on base business of 3.6% indicates that our pricing excellence initiatives continue to generate positive results. This higher yield more than offset the 1.8% volume loss that we experienced during the quarter, about half of which resulted from the combination of nearly one less workday and lower non-core revenues. The remaining volume loss was primarily in our collection lines of business, which is driven mainly by our strategy to price our work in order to achieve acceptable margins and returns. This pricing strategy is the primary factor leading to our robust margin expansion. Also contributing to the margin expansion are our operational excellence programs and the reduction in operating expenses as we flexed down costs due to lower volume. This marks the fifth consecutive quarter in which our year-over-year operating costs as a percent of revenue have declined.
Steiner also highlighted the Company's strong cash position: "We generated $745 million in net cash provided by operating activities and $431 million in free cash flow during this year's third quarter, bringing our free cash flow total to $1.24 billion for the first nine months of 2006. We returned $425 million in cash to our shareholders during the third quarter in the form of share repurchases and our quarterly cash dividend payment and remain on track to return nearly $1.55 billion to our shareholders for the full-year. Although we expect sequential capital expenditures to increase significantly during the fourth quarter, we project that our full-year free cash flow will meet or exceed the range of $1.2 to $1.3 billion."
(a)
Key Highlights for the Quarter
 
Section 45K tax credits and the third quarter resumption of operations of the synthetic fuel partnerships in which the Company invests. At the end of the second quarter, the Company estimated the full year phase-out of its Section 45K tax credits to be 78%. It has now reduced the estimated full-year phase-out to 35% due to its outlook for average full-year crude oil prices. Based on an estimated 35% phase-out, the Company recorded a benefit of approximately $0.05 per diluted share during the third quarter, which includes $0.02 of additional tax credits attributable to the first two quarters of the year. At the revised 35% phase-out estimate, the Company projects a benefit from Section 45K tax credits of approximately $0.01 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2006. The Company's fourth quarter effective tax rate is projected to be 36.0%.
Steiner concluded, "Our nearly 50,000 employees produced the best quarter I have seen at Waste Management. As a result of our strong performance through the first nine months of the year and our expectations for the fourth quarter, we are raising our full year earnings guidance. As part of our second quarter 2006 earnings release, we projected our full-year 2006 earnings to be at the upper end of the analysts' then current full-year range of $1.69 to $1.75 per diluted share. Adjusting for the non-recurring items noted in our 2006 quarterly earnings releases, we now expect our full year earnings to be within the range of $1.78 to $1.81 per diluted share."
 
This earnings release contains net income, earnings per share, earnings per share growth and forecast, income from operations as a percentage of revenue and income from operations as a percentage of revenue growth, each as adjusted to exclude the impact of certain unusual, non-recurring or otherwise non-operational items. These are non-GAAP measures as defined in Regulation G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are not intended to replace the most comparable GAAP measures that are also presented in this press release. The Company reports its financial results in compliance with GAAP, but believes that also providing non-GAAP measures provides investors additional, meaningful comparisons of current results to prior periods' results by excluding items that the Company does not believe reflect its fundamental business performance. The Company also discloses its free cash flow and free cash flow forecast, which are non-GAAP measures. The Company defines free cash flow as:
(a)
The Company's definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies, and therefore not subject to comparison. The Company includes the non-GAAP financial measure of free cash flow in its disclosures because it uses that measure in the management of its business and because it believes that investors are interested in the cash produced by the Company from non-financing activities that is available for uses such as the Company's acquisitions, its share repurchase program, its scheduled debt reduction and the payment of dividends.
Quantitative reconciliations of each of the non-GAAP measures presented herein to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the accompanying schedules. Investors are urged to take into account GAAP measures as well as non-GAAP measures in evaluating the Company.
The Company has scheduled an investor and analyst conference call for later this morning to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the information provided on the conference call. The call will begin at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time, 9:00 a.m. Central time, and is open to the public. To listen to the conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, go to the Waste Management Website at , and select "3Q2006 Earnings Report Webcast." You may also listen to the analyst and investor conference call by telephone by contacting the conference call
http://www.wm.com
 
operator 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 7044631." US/Canada Dial-In Number: (877) 710-6139. Int'l/Local Dial-In Number: (706) 643-7398. For those unable to listen to the live call, a replay will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. Central time on October 25 through 5:00 p.m. Central time on November 8. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the Waste Management Website at . To hear a telephonic replay of the call, dial (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter reservation code 7044631.
http://www.wm.com
Waste Management, based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Our subsidiaries provide collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. We are also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. Our customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America.
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future events. Statements relating to future events and performance are "forward-looking statements." The forward-looking statements that the Company makes are the Company's expectations, opinion, view or belief at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing estimates or making statements based on current expectations, opinions, views or beliefs, the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or statements or to provide any other information relating to such estimates or statements. Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2006 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. However, they are not the only risks that the Company faces. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The following are some of the risks that we face:
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


