FILE:WM/WM-8K-20060427083329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release this morning, April 27, 2006, announcing its earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1.
     Additionally, as announced in a press release dated March 30, 2006, the Company is holding a conference call, open to the public, to discuss these results, from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Central time this morning. The call will be webcast live, and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. The call may also be listened to by calling (877) 710-6139 and entering the access code 7247347. A replay of the conference call will be available through 5:00 p.m. Central time on May 11, 2006. The replay of the call may be heard over the Internet, by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com, or by telephone by dialing 800-642-1687 and entering conference code 7247347.
     On the conference call, management of the Company is expected to discuss its results of operations using certain non-GAAP financial measures, including: free cash flow; adjusted earnings per diluted share; adjusted selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenue; and adjusted EBIT margin. The Company's "EBIT margin" is the same measure as GAAP reported income from operations as a percentage of revenue.
     The Company has provided an explanation of its use of free cash flow, as well as a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the most comparable GAAP measure, in the press release, which is attached to this Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1, and the schedules thereto.
     The Company discusses its earnings per diluted share, as adjusted for (i) a $20 million pre-tax ($12 million on an after-tax basis) charge, consisting of $19 million of selling, general and administrative expenses and $1 million of interest expense, related to unclaimed property obligations and (ii) a tax benefit of $4 million, consisting of a $6 million tax benefit related to audit settlements, offset by $2 million of tax expense related to repatriation of Canadian funds. The Company has discussed the adjusted measures because it believes they improve investors' ability to compare the Company's performance to the prior period without these items. The reconciliations of as reported diluted EPS to adjusted diluted EPS and as reported net income to adjusted net income are shown below (in millions, except per share amounts):
Table of Contents
The Company discusses both its selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue and its EBIT margin (which, as described above, is the same measure as GAAP reported income from operations as a percentage of revenue) as adjusted for a $19 million (pre-tax) selling, general and administrative expense for unclaimed property obligations. The Company believes that it is helpful for investors to see the Company's performance without the effect of the adjustment for these obligations, which date back to 1980. The following is a reconciliation of (i) adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues and (ii) adjusted income from operations as a percentage of revenue (EBIT margin) (dollars in millions):
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1: Press Release dated April 27, 2006
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Greg Nikkel  713.265.1358 Media: Lynn Brown  713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.wm.com
WMI #06-07
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2006. Revenues for the quarter were $3.23 billion as compared with $3.04 billion in the year ago period, or an increase of 6.3%. Net income for the quarter was $186 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, compared with $150 million, or $0.26 per diluted share in the prior year period, a 31% increase in earnings per diluted share.
HOUSTON  April 27, 2006 
"We are very pleased with our results in the first quarter as we again accomplished our primary financial goals of earnings growth, margin expansion and strong free cash flow," said David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management. "The continued success of our Pricing Excellence Program and our cost control and productivity initiatives helped drive the 31% increase in earnings per diluted share. Our internal revenue growth from yield on base business increased 3.9% in the first quarter of 2006 compared with the prior year quarter, and it grew 5.3% when you include the impact of our fuel surcharge program. Significantly higher disposal volumes also contributed to the increase in revenues. We believe that unusually warm and dry weather and a solid economic environment contributed to the higher disposal volumes in the first quarter."
The Company noted two items which impacted the current quarter's results.
"There were a number of other encouraging factors in our first quarter results. Net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow were both strong for the quarter. We returned $496 million to shareholders in the form of our $0.22 per share quarterly dividend and our share repurchase program. We improved productivity in all of our collection lines of business and produced excellent safety results, both of which are important components of our cost control initiatives. And our previously announced divestiture program, which represents over $900 million in annual revenue, is progressing according to our timetable. Finally, on an as reported basis, income from operations as a percent of revenue improved 150 basis points in the quarter compared with the prior year quarter."
 
Key Highlights for the Quarter
Steiner concluded, "We are off to a great start and have laid the foundation for a successful year. We are seeing the continuation of the benefits of our pricing and operational initiatives and our business fundamentals remain solid. While we are optimistic about the year, in the second quarter we will be watching the impact of higher crude oil costs on our Section 45K tax credits, and whether volumes in the first quarter were borrowed from the second quarter. Consequently, until we have more clarity on these factors, we believe it is premature to comment on our full year outlook."
 
This earnings release contains a discussion of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure as defined in Regulation G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company defines free cash flow as:
(a)
The Company's definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
The Company believes that providing investors with certain non-GAAP financial measures gives investors additional information to enable them to assess, in the way management assesses, the Company's current and continuing operations. The Company included the non-GAAP financial measure of free cash flow because it uses that measure in the management of its business and because it believes that investors are interested in the cash produced by the Company from non-financing activities that is available for uses such as the Company's acquisition program, its share repurchase program, its scheduled debt reduction and the payment of dividends. A reconciliation of free cash flow to the Company's GAAP reported cash flows from operating activities, which is the most comparable GAAP measure, is included in the accompanying schedules. This release also presents an adjusted ratio of selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue. The Company excluded the $19 million before tax selling, general and administrative portion of the charge for unclaimed
 
property obligations from selling, general and administrative expenses in its presentation of this adjusted ratio because it believes that it is helpful for investors to see the Company's performance without the effect of the adjustment for these obligations, which date back to 1980. Investors are urged to take into account GAAP measures as well as non-GAAP measures in evaluating the Company.
The Company has scheduled an investor and analyst conference call for later this morning to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the information on the conference call. The call will begin at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time, 9:00 a.m. Central time, and is open to the public. To listen to the conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, go to the Waste Management Website at , and select "1Q2006 Earnings Report Webcast." You may also listen to the analyst conference call by telephone by contacting the conference call operator 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 7247347." US/Canada Dial-In Number: (877) 710-6139. Int'l/Local Dial-In Number: (706) 643-7398. For those unable to listen to the live call, a replay will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. Central time on April 27 through 5:00 p.m. Central time on May 11. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the Waste Management Website at . To hear a telephonic replay of the call, dial (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter reservation code 7247347.
http://www.wm.com
http://www.wm.com
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the Company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The Company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America.
Certain statements contained in this press release include statements that are "forward-looking statements." Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2006 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. However, they are not the only risks that the Company faces. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In addition, the Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data relating to future periods. Such estimates and other information are the Company's expectations at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing such estimates the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or provide any other information relating to such estimates. The following are some of the risks we face:
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


