FILE:WM/WM-8K-20070427080054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release this morning, April 27, 2007, announcing its earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1.
     Additionally, as previously announced, the Company is holding a conference call, open to the public, to discuss these results, from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Central time this morning. The call will be webcast live, and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. The call may also be listened to by calling (877) 710-6139 and entering the access code 3382502. A replay of the conference call will be available through 5:00 p.m. Central time on May 11, 2007. The replay of the call may be heard over the Internet, by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com, or by telephone by dialing 800-642-1687 and entering conference code 3382502.
     On the conference call, management of the Company will discuss results of operations using free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, and is expected to discuss full year projections of free cash flow and adjusted earnings per share. The Company has provided an explanation of its use of free cash flow, as well as reconciliations of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the most comparable GAAP measure, in the press release that is attached to this Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1 and the schedules thereto.
     The non-GAAP measurement of full year adjusted earnings of $2.03 to $2.07 per diluted share projected by the Company excludes the first quarter 2007 impact of restructuring charges of $6 million after tax. GAAP net earnings per diluted share for the remaining three quarters of the year may include restructuring charges, asset impairment and unusual items charges, gains or losses from divestitures, the resolution of income tax items, and other items that are not currently determinable, but may be significant. The full year 2007 adjusted earnings per diluted share projected today excludes the impact of any such items that may occur. GAAP net earnings per diluted share projected for the full year would require inclusion of the projected impact of any expected items. Due to the uncertainty of the amount and timing of any such items, we do not believe we have the information available to provide full year GAAP net earnings per diluted share and the quantitative reconciliation to our current adjusted earning per diluted share projection.
     Certain statements contained herein are "forward-looking statements." The forward-looking statements that the Company makes are the Company's expectations, opinion, view or belief at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing estimates or making statements based on current expectations, opinions, views or beliefs, the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or statements or to provide any other information relating to such estimates or statements. The Company is subject to risks that could affect its financial statements for 2007 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1:   Press Release dated April 27, 2007
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Greg Nikkel  713.265.1358 Media: Lynn Brown  713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.wm.com
WMI #07-07
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2007. Net income for the quarter was $222 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, compared with $186 million, or $0.34 per diluted share in the prior year period, a 24% increase in earnings per diluted share.
HOUSTON  April 27, 2007 
Income from operations as a percent of revenue improved by 160 basis points to 15.1% in the first quarter of 2007. Revenues for the quarter were $3.19 billion as compared with $3.23 billion in the year ago period as the Company continued to execute its strategy to divest underperforming operations and accounts. First quarter 2007 revenues were up $24 million on a year-over-year basis, excluding the divestiture of underperforming operations representing $65 million of revenues.
The Company noted a $6 million after tax, or $0.01 per diluted share, restructuring charge in the current quarter's results.
"Our first quarter 2007 financial performance exceeded our expectations and demonstrated that our pricing and operational excellence programs continue to positively impact our results. We again accomplished our primary financial goals of earnings growth, margin expansion and strong free cash flow," said David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management.
"Internal revenue growth from yield in our commercial collection line of business was 5.3% in the quarter, the highest level we have achieved in the recent past. The internal revenue growth from yield in our commercial, industrial and residential lines of business was 4.8%. The execution of our strategy to review low margin accounts and either increase prices or cull those accounts from our business contributed to the lower volumes in our collection line of business. That strategy worked very well in the first quarter, as the volume loss in our collection line of business was about 5.2%, but the income from operations in our collection business grew nearly 16%.
"The internal revenue growth from yield at our landfills and transfer stations improved in the first quarter of 2007, and we expect that to continue as we implement our disposal pricing excellence program throughout the Company."
 
Steiner also noted, "We achieved additional positive results from improved operations during the first quarter of this year. We lowered our operating costs by $66 million during the first quarter of 2007, which is a 3.1% improvement in absolute dollars when compared with the prior year quarter. Operating expenses as a percent of revenue in the first quarter of 2007 stood at 63.8%, a 120 basis point improvement when compared to the first quarter of 2006. This marks the seventh consecutive quarter in which our year-over-year operating costs as a percent of revenue have improved. Our ongoing operational excellence initiatives in the areas of labor management, maintenance and safety were primary contributors to this improvement.
"Net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow were both strong for the quarter. We returned $613 million to shareholders in the form of our $0.24 per share quarterly dividend and our share repurchase program. We also showed marked improvement in the recycling segment of our business due to higher recycling commodity prices and our operational improvements. Our recycling segment contributed over $0.01 per diluted share to the year-over-year improvement in net income during the first quarter of 2007."
Key Highlights for the First Quarter of 2007
Steiner concluded, "We are off to a very good start for the year. Our solid results during the first quarter of this year reflect the success of the continuation of our pricing and operational excellence strategies. Our first quarter success gives us confidence that we will achieve our earnings expectations for the remaining three quarters of 2007. As a result, we now project our full-year 2007 earnings to be within the range of $2.03 to $2.07 per diluted share, as adjusted for certain items. In the first quarter we had an expected change in working capital and higher
(a)
 
capital expenditures, but those are due primarily to timing issues and we do not expect them to affect our ability to generate between $1.30 to $1.40 billion of free cash flow for the full-year 2007."
The Company's definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies, and therefore not subject to comparison. The Company includes the non-GAAP financial measure of free cash flow in its disclosures because it uses that measure in the management of its business and because it believes that investors are interested in the cash produced by the Company from non-financing activities that is available for uses such as the Company's acquisitions, its share repurchase program, its scheduled debt reduction and the payment of dividends.
Quantitative reconciliations of each of the non-GAAP measures presented herein to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the accompanying schedules. Investors are urged to take into account GAAP measures as well as non-GAAP measures in evaluating the Company.
The Company has scheduled an investor and analyst conference call for later this morning to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the information on the conference call. The call will begin at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time, 9:00 a.m. Central time, and is open to the public. To listen to the conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, go to the Waste Management Website at , and select "1Q2007 Earnings Report Webcast." You may also listen to the analyst conference call by telephone by contacting the conference call operator 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 3382502." US/Canada Dial-In Number: (877) 710-6139. Int'l/Local Dial-In Number: (706) 643-7398. For those unable to listen to the live call, a replay will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. Central time on April 27 through 5:00 p.m. Central time on May 11. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the Waste Management Website at . To hear a telephonic replay of the call, dial (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter reservation code 3382502.
http://www.wm.com
http://www.wm.com
 
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the Company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The Company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America.
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future events. Statements relating to future events and performance are "forward-looking statements." The forward-looking statements that the Company makes are the Company's expectations, opinion, view or belief at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing estimates or making statements based on current expectations, opinions, views or beliefs, the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or statements or to provide any other information relating to such estimates or statements. Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2007 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. However, they are not the only risks that the Company faces. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The following are some of the risks that we face:
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
 
 
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2007 presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 


