FILE:WM/WM-8K-20070731080440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release this morning, July 31, 2007, announcing its earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1.
     Additionally, as previously announced, the Company is holding a conference call, open to the public, to discuss these results, from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Central time this morning. The call will be webcast live, and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. The call may also be listened to live by calling (877) 710-6139 and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 4344708." A replay of the conference call will be available through 5:00 p.m. Central time on August 14, 2007. The replay of the call may be heard over the Internet, by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com, or by telephone by dialing 800-642-1687 and entering conference code 4344708.
     On the conference call, management of the Company is expected to discuss its results of operations using certain non-GAAP financial measures, including: free cash flow; adjusted earnings per diluted share; and adjusted income from operations as a percentage of revenue. Management is also expected to discuss certain non-GAAP projections of its future performance, including adjusted earnings per diluted share and free cash flow. The Company has provided an explanation of its use of these non-GAAP measures and has reconciled them to the most comparable GAAP measures in the press release, which is attached to this Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1, and the schedules thereto.
     (c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Greg Nikkel  713.265.1358 Media: Lynn Brown  713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.wm.com
WMI #07-11
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2007. Net income for the quarter was $338 million, or $0.64 per diluted share, compared with $417 million, or $0.76 per diluted share in the prior year period. The Company noted several items that impacted the results in the current and prior years' second quarters. Excluding these items, net income would have been $0.56 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2007 compared with $0.45 per diluted share in the prior year quarter, or a 24% increase in earnings per diluted share.
HOUSTON  July 31, 2007 
(a)
The Company noted the following items that impacted the results for the quarter:
Combined, these items improved second quarter 2007 after-tax earnings by $42 million. Without the impact of these items, net income for the quarter would have been $296 million, or $0.56 per diluted share.
(a)
The prior year's second quarter earnings included a net after-tax benefit of $168 million primarily due to tax audit settlements. Without such benefit, net income in last year's second quarter would have been $249 million, or $0.45 per diluted share.
(a)
Income from operations as a percent of revenue improved 230 basis points to 18.9% in the second quarter of 2007 as compared with the second quarter of 2006. Income from operations as a percent of revenue, as adjusted for the items noted above, increased 210 basis points to 17.9% in the second quarter of 2007 as compared with the second quarter of 2006.
(a)
"We are pleased with our second quarter 2007 financial performance, as we again accomplished our primary goals of adjusted earnings growth, operating margin expansion and strong free cash flow," said David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management. "Our strong financial performance continues to be driven by the success of our pricing and operational excellence programs."
 
Revenues for the quarter were $3.36 billion as compared with $3.41 billion in the year ago period, a decline of $52 million, as the Company continued to execute its strategy to divest underperforming operations and accounts. Excluding the divestiture of underperforming operations representing $104 million of second quarter 2006 revenues, second quarter 2007 revenues would have been up $52 million on a year-over-year basis.
(a)
Steiner continued, "Our internal revenue growth due to yield on base business was 3.4%. If we include the 2.2% benefit from higher recycling commodity prices, internal revenue growth from yield was 5.6%. The internal revenue growth from yield in our combined commercial, industrial and residential lines of business was 4.6%. Our strategy to price work in order to achieve acceptable margins and returns again worked very well in the second quarter, as the volume loss in our collection line of business was about 4.8%, but the income from operations in our collection business grew 20%.
"The internal revenue growth from yield at our landfills and transfer stations improved in the second quarter of 2007, and we expect that to continue as we further implement our disposal pricing excellence program throughout the Company."
As for the Company's operational excellence programs, Steiner noted, "Our operating expense results continued to improve during the second quarter of 2007. We lowered our operating costs by $107 million during this year's quarter, which is a 4.9% improvement in absolute dollars when compared with the prior year's quarter. Operating expenses as a percent of revenue in the second quarter of 2007 stood at 62.3%, a 220 basis point improvement when compared with the second quarter of 2006. This marks the eighth consecutive quarter in which our year-over-year operating costs as a percent of revenue have improved.
"Net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow were both strong for the quarter. We returned $321 million to shareholders in the form of our $0.24 per share quarterly dividend and our share repurchase program."
Key Highlights for the Second Quarter of 2007
 
Steiner concluded, "Our overall performance during the first and second quarters of this year was very strong. The continued success of our pricing and operational excellence strategies is clearly reflected in our results. Our first and second quarter results give us confidence that we will achieve our earnings expectations for the remaining two quarters of 2007. As a result, we now project our full-year 2007 earnings to be within the range of $2.07 to $2.11 per diluted share, without considering the financial impact associated with the recently ended labor disruption in the Oakland, California area and certain other items. This is an increase from our previous projection of $2.03 to $2.07 per diluted share. On the same basis, we now project that we will meet or exceed our previously projected free cash flow range of $1.30 to $1.40 billion for the full-year 2007."
(a)
The Company's definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies, and therefore not subject to comparison.
Except for projected earnings per diluted share, discussed below, and the comparative change in adjusted revenue, which is reconciled in the text of this release, the quantitative reconciliations of each of the non-GAAP measures presented herein to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the accompanying schedules. Investors are urged to take into account GAAP measures as well as non-GAAP measures in evaluating the Company.
The full year adjusted earnings of $2.07 to $2.11 per diluted share projected by the Company excludes (i) the first quarter 2007 impact of restructuring charges of $6 million after tax; (ii) the 2007 year-to-date impact of $40 million associated with income tax benefits; and (iii) the second quarter net $18 million in after-tax gains from the divestiture of certain operations. GAAP net earnings per diluted share for the remaining two quarters of the year may include restructuring charges, asset impairment and unusual items charges, gains or losses from divestitures, the resolution of income tax items, and other items that are not currently
 
determinable, but may be significant, such as the financial impact of the labor action in the Oakland, California area. The full year 2007 adjusted earnings of $2.07 to $2.11 per diluted share projected today excludes the impact of any such items that may occur. GAAP net earnings per diluted share projected for the full year would require inclusion of the projected impact of any expected items. Due to the uncertainty of the amount and timing of any such items, we do not believe we have the information available to provide projected full year GAAP net earnings per diluted share and the quantitative reconciliation to our current adjusted earning per diluted share projection.
The Company has scheduled an investor and analyst conference call for later this morning to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the information on the conference call. The call will begin at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time, 9:00 a.m. Central time, and is open to the public. To listen to the conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, go to the Waste Management Website at http://www.wm.com, and select "2Q2007 Earnings Report Webcast." You may also listen to the analyst conference call by telephone by contacting the conference call operator 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 4344708." US/Canada Dial-In Number: (877) 710-6139. Int'l/Local Dial-In Number: (706) 643-7398. For those unable to listen to the live call, a replay will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately noon. Central time on July 31 through 5:00 p.m. Central time on August 14. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the Waste Management Website at . To hear a telephonic replay of the call, dial (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter reservation code 4344708.
http://www.wm.com
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the Company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The Company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America.
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future events. Statements relating to future events and performance are "forward-looking statements." The forward-looking statements that the Company makes are the Company's expectations, opinion, view or belief at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing estimates or making statements based on current expectations, opinions, views or beliefs, the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or statements or to provide any other information relating to such estimates or statements. Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2007 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. However, they are not the only risks that the Company faces. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The following are some of the risks that we face:
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


