FILE:WM/WM-8K-20070208074240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release this morning, February 8, 2007, announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter and full year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1.
     Additionally, as previously announced, the Company is holding a conference call, open to the public, to discuss these results, from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Central time this morning. The call will be webcast live, and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. You may also listen to the call by calling (877) 710-6139 and entering the access code 5597641. A replay of the conference call will be available through 5:00 p.m. Central time on February 22, 2007. The replay of the call may be heard over the Internet, by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com, or by telephone by dialing 800-642-1687 and entering conference code 5597641.
     On the conference call, management of the Company is expected to discuss its results of operations and projections using certain non-GAAP financial measures, including free cash flow, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted effective tax rate. The reconciliation of the full year as reported effective tax rate to the as adjusted effective tax rate, which the Company has provided to give investors an understanding of how certain non-recurring or unusual items have benefited the year's tax rate, is as follows:
     The Company has provided an explanation of its use of each of the other non-GAAP measures it discusses, as well as a reconciliation of each of those measures to the most comparable GAAP measures, in the press release, which is attached to this Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1, and the schedules thereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1: Press Release dated February 8, 2007
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Greg Nikkel  713.265.1358 Media: Lynn Brown  713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.wm.com
WMI #07-03
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced financial results for its fourth quarter and for the year ended December 31, 2006. Revenues for the quarter were $3.28 billion compared with $3.37 billion in the year ago period. Net income for the quarter was $246 million, or $0.46 per diluted share, compared with $290 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter 2005.
HOUSTON  February 8, 2007 
For the full year 2006, the Company reported revenues of $13.36 billion compared with $13.07 billion in 2005. Net income for the year was $1.15 billion, or $2.10 per diluted share, compared with $1.18 billion, or $2.09 per diluted share for the year 2005.
The Company noted several items that impacted the results in the current and prior years' fourth quarters. Excluding these items, net income would have been $252 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2006 compared with $255 million, or $0.46 per diluted share, in the prior year quarter. Income from operations as a percent of revenue, as adjusted for these items, increased 30 basis points to 15.4% in the current year's quarter compared with the prior year's quarter. Results in the current quarter included:
(a)
Results in the prior year quarter included:
 
"Our solid performance in the fourth quarter completed an excellent year in which we exceeded our internal expectations for earnings growth, margin expansion, and free cash flow. In the fourth quarter, we again expanded our margins and generated higher net cash from operating activities," said David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management. "Our internal revenue growth from yield on base business increased 2.9% in the fourth quarter of this year, which indicates that our pricing excellence initiatives continue to positively impact our financial performance. We lowered our operating costs by $105 million, which contributed to the 140 basis point reduction in our operating costs as a percent of revenue.
"Our ability to generate strong free cash flow and return it to our shareholders remains a cornerstone of our financial objectives. We generated $675 million in net cash from operating activities and $212 million of free cash flow during the quarter. For the year, we produced over $2.5 billion in net cash from operating activities and over $1.4 billion of free cash flow. Our full year free cash flow exceeded the high end of our projection due mainly to strong operating earnings, improved working capital and lower than expected capital expenditures. In 2006, we returned to our shareholders over $1.5 billion in cash, which was comprised of share repurchases of $1.07 billion and cash dividends of $476 million."
Steiner continued, "Internal revenue growth due to volumes declined by 4.4% during the fourth quarter of 2006 due to the combination of lower hurricane clean-up volumes, 1.3 fewer workdays and lower non-core revenues in this year's quarter. Absent these three factors, internal revenue growth due to volumes fell by 1.5%. This volume loss occurred primarily in our collection lines of business, which was again driven by our strategy to price our services to achieve acceptable margins and returns on capital. This strategy continued to produce positive results during the fourth quarter as income from operations and margins increased in our commercial, industrial and residential collection lines of business."
Key Highlights for the Fourth Quarter and the Full Year 2006
 
to yield increased 3.6%. This excludes the impact of our fuel surcharge revenue, which increased 0.9% for the full year 2006.
Steiner continued, "We produced excellent financial results throughout 2006 and laid a foundation on which we will build during 2007. We remain committed to our financial goals of growing earnings, expanding our operating margins, increasing our return on invested capital, and generating strong free cash flow which we intend to return to our shareholders in the form of cash dividend payments and share repurchases. We will accomplish these objectives by leveraging the same operating strategies that we followed in 2006.
"We expect that our pricing excellence programs will continue to drive value across all of our lines of business and we are expanding our pricing initiatives at our landfills and transfer stations. We also expect our account profitability analysis to lead to improved pricing and cost management across the commercial segment of our collection business. We plan to continue to improve our performance in the areas of productivity, maintenance and safety, with a goal of lowering our operating costs as a percent of revenue. We have plans to deploy our new revenue management system, an investment that is expected to improve the long-term performance of the Company. We will also continue to divest underperforming or non-strategic businesses.
"We enter 2007 amidst an economic environment that is showing modest growth but at a slower pace than we saw in 2006. We expect economic growth to accelerate in the last half of 2007. And as we saw in 2006, we project that our internal revenue growth will be driven by our pricing excellence initiatives. Along with operational improvements and divestitures, we expect this will lead to a significant expansion in our income from operations as a percent of revenue during 2007. As a result, we expect to grow our full-year earnings per diluted share by approximately 8 to 10% during 2007, or within a range of $1.96 to $2.00, when compared to our full-year 2006 results of $1.81 per diluted share as adjusted for the non-recurring items noted in our press releases."
 
2007 Outlook
The Company also announced the following in regard to its financial outlook for 2007:
 
This earnings release contains net income, earnings per share, income from operations as a percentage of revenue and effective tax rate, each as adjusted to exclude the impact of certain unusual, non-recurring or otherwise non-operational items. These are non-GAAP measures as defined in Regulation G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are not intended to replace the most comparable GAAP measures that are also presented in this press release. The Company reports its financial results in compliance with GAAP, but believes that also providing non-GAAP measures provides investors additional, meaningful comparisons of current results to prior periods' results by excluding items that the Company does not believe reflect its fundamental business performance. The Company also discloses its free cash flow and free cash flow forecast, which are non-GAAP measures. The Company defines free cash flow as:
(a)
 Net cash provided by operating activities
 Less, capital expenditures
 Plus, proceeds from divestitures of businesses, net of cash divested, and other sales of assets.
The Company's definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies, and therefore not subject to comparison. The Company includes the non-GAAP financial measure of free cash flow in its disclosures because it uses that measure in the management of its business and because it believes that investors are interested in the cash produced by the Company from non-financing activities that is available for uses such as the Company's acquisitions, its share repurchase program, its scheduled debt reduction and the payment of dividends.
Quantitative reconciliations of each of the non-GAAP measures presented herein to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the accompanying schedules. Investors are urged to take into account GAAP measures as well as non-GAAP measures in evaluating the Company.
The Company has scheduled an investor and analyst conference call for later this morning to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the information on the conference call. The call will begin at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time, 9:00 a.m. Central time, and is open to the public. To listen to the conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, go to the Waste Management Website at http://www.wm.com, and select "4Q2006 Earnings Report Webcast." You may also
 
listen to the analyst conference call by telephone by contacting the conference call operator 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 5597641." US/Canada Dial-In Number: (877) 710-6139. Int'l/Local Dial-In Number: (706) 643-7398. For those unable to listen to the live call, a replay will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. Central time on February 8 through 5:00 p.m. Central time on February 22. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the Waste Management Website at . To hear a telephonic replay of the call, dial (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter reservation code 5597641.
th
nd
http://www.wm.com
Waste Management, based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Our subsidiaries provide collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. We are also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. Our customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America.
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future events. Statements relating to future events and performance are "forward-looking statements." The forward-looking statements that the Company makes are the Company's expectations, opinion, view or belief at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing estimates or making statements based on current expectations, opinions, views or beliefs, the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or statements or to provide any other information relating to such estimates or statements. Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2007 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. However, they are not the only risks that the Company faces. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The following are some of the risks that we face:
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


