FILE:WM/WM-8K-20071026074411.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release this morning, October 26, 2007, announcing its earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1.
     Additionally, as previously announced, the Company is holding a conference call, open to the public, to discuss these results, from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Central time this morning. The call will be webcast live, and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. The call may also be listened to live by calling (877) 710-6139 and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 16948617."  A replay of the conference call will be available through 4:00 p.m. Central time on November 9, 2007. The replay of the call may be heard over the Internet, by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com, or by telephone by dialing 800-642-1687 and entering conference code 16948617.
     On the call, management of the Company is expected to discuss its results of operations using certain non-GAAP financial measures, including: free cash flow; adjusted operating expenses; and adjusted operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. Management is also expected to discuss certain non-GAAP projections of its future performance, including adjusted earnings per diluted share and free cash flow. The Company has provided an explanation of its use of these non-GAAP measures and has reconciled them to the most comparable GAAP measures in the press release, which is attached to this Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1, and the schedules thereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Greg Nikkel  713.265.1358 Media: Lynn Brown  713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.wm.com
WMI #07-14
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2007. Revenues for the quarter were $3.40 billion as compared with $3.44 billion in the year ago period. Net income for the quarter was $278 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, compared with $300 million, or $0.55 per diluted share, in the prior year period.
HOUSTON  October 26, 2007 
The Company noted a $16 million after-tax decrease, or approximately $0.03 per diluted share, in the current quarter's net income related primarily to the cost of the labor disruption in the Oakland, California area.
Income from operations as a percent of revenue was 16.6% in the third quarter of 2007. Income from operations as a percent of revenue, as adjusted for the item noted above, was 17.4% in the current year's quarter.
(a)
"The Company overcame a number of challenges during the third quarter of 2007. We successfully responded to the labor disruption in Oakland, but at a cost of $0.03 per diluted share. We also saw a sharp run-up in crude oil prices, which eliminated our expected earnings per diluted share benefit from Section 45K tax credits in the quarter. We had expected to receive a $0.02 per share benefit coming into the third quarter. I would note that the $0.55 per diluted share earnings in the third quarter of 2006 included a $0.05 per diluted share benefit from Section 45K tax credits," said David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management.
"As compared to our expectations for the quarter, third party volumes were weaker than we anticipated. Our earnings were also below the expectations that we had entering the quarter. But we don't believe that the 5.0% reduction in volumes in the third quarter was the primary driver of that result. There are certain types of costs, such as health and welfare, litigation settlement costs and bad debt expense, that tend to be uneven through the year. The fluctuation in these costs and Section 45K tax credits were benefits in the first and second quarter of the year, and
 
worked against us in the third quarter. These items were the primary reason earnings did not meet our expectations for the third quarter."
"Despite these challenges, we expanded our operating margins and generated very strong free cash flow, which was $1.36 billion for the first nine months of the year. Because of this, we are raising our free cash flow projection for the full-year to approximately $1.5 billion, which is $100 million above the high end of our previously projected range. Our internal revenue growth due to yield on base business was strong at 3.3% and, on a year-over-year basis, we lowered operating costs as a percent of revenue for the ninth consecutive quarter. These accomplishments are evidence of the success of our pricing and operational excellence programs.
(a)
"Our collection line of business continues to perform very well despite lower volumes. The combined internal revenue growth from yield in our commercial, industrial and residential lines of business was 4.5%. The driving factor behind this was internal revenue growth from yield in our commercial collection line of business of 6.0% in the quarter, which is the highest level we have achieved in the recent past. The volume loss in our collection business was 5.4% and was driven in part by our strategy to review low margin accounts and either increase prices or cull those accounts. Our collection volumes were also impacted by lower roll-off activity related mainly to the downturn in residential construction. Our ability to flex down costs as we have lost volumes, combined with the success of our pricing program, led to a 14% growth in income from operations in our collection business."
Steiner continued, "Internal revenue growth from volumes was a decrease of 4.5% at our landfills due mainly to the decline in third party construction and demolition tons, which is largely a result of the weakness in residential construction. We did achieve positive internal revenue growth from yield at our landfills and transfer stations during the third quarter of 2007, marking the ninth consecutive quarter in which we have shown year-over-year improvement."
Steiner also highlighted the Company's strong cash position: "We generated $771 million in net cash provided by operating activities and $550 million in free cash flow during this year's third quarter, bringing our free cash flow total to $1.36 billion for the first nine months of 2007. We returned $499 million in cash to our shareholders during the third quarter in the form of share repurchases and our quarterly cash dividend payment and remain on track to return nearly $1.8 billion to our shareholders for the full-year. Although we expect sequential capital expenditures to increase during the fourth quarter, we now project that free cash flow will be approximately $1.5 billion for the full-year 2007."
(a)
(a)
Key Highlights for the Quarter
 
Steiner concluded, "Our collection and recycling businesses continue to grow income from operations at double digit rates, and we will continue to follow our strategy of pricing work to generate acceptable margins and returns on our business. We are meeting our expectations with regard to our pricing program and continue to produce a positive price-volume trade-off in our collection business. We remain committed to this approach and expect it to continue to drive earnings growth and margin expansion. As we have done in the collection line of business, we intend to follow a disciplined approach to landfill pricing and to pursue cost cutting at our landfills to offset the earnings impact of the loss in volumes.
"In looking at our full year 2007 earnings projections, the previously projected range of $2.07 to $2.11 per diluted share included a Section 45K tax credit benefit of $0.04 per diluted share in the second half of the year. We no longer expect to receive that $0.04 per diluted share benefit. After reducing the range by this $0.04 per diluted share non-operational tax item, we are confident we can meet the revised 2007 full-year earnings projection. And we have raised our full-year free cash flow by $100 million over the high end of our previously projected range of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion."
(a)
 
The Company has scheduled an investor and analyst conference call for later this morning to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The information in this press release
 
should be read in conjunction with the information on the conference call. The call will begin at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time and is open to the public. To listen to the conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, go to the Waste Management Website at , and select "3Q2007 Earnings Report Webcast." You may also listen to the analyst conference call by telephone by contacting the conference call operator 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 16948617." US/Canada Dial-In Number: (877) 710-6139. Int'l/Local Dial-In Number: (706) 643-7398. For those unable to listen to the live call, a replay will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern time on October 26 through 5:00 p.m. Eastern time on November 9th. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the Waste Management Website at . To hear a telephonic replay of the call, dial (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter reservation code 16948617.
http://www.wm.com
http://www.wm.com
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the Company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The Company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America.
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future events. Statements relating to future events and performance are "forward-looking statements." The forward-looking statements that the Company makes are the Company's expectations, opinion, view or belief at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing estimates or making statements based on current expectations, opinions, views or beliefs, the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or statements or to provide any other information relating to such estimates or statements. Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2007 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. However, they are not the only risks that the Company faces. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The following are some of the risks that we face:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2007 presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


