FILE:WM/WM-8K-20081014130513.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The following information, including the text of the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 9.01 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On October 13, 2008, Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding, in addition to the matters discussed in Item 7.01 hereof, the Company's preliminary financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
On October 13, 2008, the Company announced that it had determined to withdraw its proposal to the Board of Directors of Republic Services, Inc. to acquire all of Republic's outstanding common stock.
Furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference is the press release issued by the Company regarding, in addition to the matters discussed in Item 2.02 hereof, the termination of the acquisition proposal.
(d) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1:     Press Release dated October 13, 2008
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Jim Alderson  713.394.2281 Media: Lynn Brown  713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.wm.com
WMI # 08-20
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced preliminary revenue and earnings per diluted share results for the third quarter of 2008. Waste Management expects to report revenues of $3.53 billion, a 3.6% increase compared with the third quarter of 2007. Reported earnings for the third quarter of 2008 are expected to be $0.62 per diluted share, and after adjusting for certain items noted below are expected to be between $0.62 and $0.63 per diluted share. The low end of the range, $0.62 per diluted share, exceeds the Wall Street consensus estimate of $0.60 per diluted share and is a 15% increase over the reported results for the third quarter of 2007 of $0.54 per diluted share, with no net change as a result of adjustments.
HOUSTON  October 13, 2008 
David P. Steiner, Waste Management's CEO, stated, "Our preliminary third quarter 2008 revenue and earnings per diluted share results reflect the strength of our operations and our continued ability to meet or exceed our financial objectives. We certainly believe that our strong cash flow and our strong balance sheet provide certainty to investors in an uncertain time. In addition, our cash flow and cash receipts continue to be strong. We currently have over $500 million of available cash and liquid investments, all of which are invested in U.S. Government obligations."
The Company also announced that it is withdrawing its proposal to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Republic Services, Inc. for $37 per share. Steiner commented, "When we began this process, we said that we would be a disciplined buyer and that we would not risk our strong financial position to acquire Republic. Given the current state of the financial markets, we believe that it would not be prudent to continue to pursue the acquisition of Republic. Our focus will remain where it has always beenon providing strong and stable returns for our investors. Our third quarter results reflect that our actions over the past five years continue to pay off, and this progress will position us well to continue to perform even in an economic downturn."
The Company noted the following items that impacted the preliminary results for the third quarter of 2008:
 
The Company noted the following items that impacted the results for the third quarter of 2007:
As previously announced, the Company plans to release its full financial results for the third quarter of 2008 prior to the opening of the stock market on October 30, 2008 and will host a conference call that day to discuss in detail the quarter's results. The expected third quarter operating results in this release are preliminary and subject to management and the Company's auditors completing their quarterly closing review procedures.
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the Company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The Company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains a discussion of earnings per diluted share, as adjusted for the items noted herein, which is a non-GAAP measure, as defined in Regulation G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company reports its financial results in compliance with GAAP, but believes that also discussing non-GAAP measures provides investors with (i) additional, meaningful comparisons of current results to prior periods' results by excluding items that the Company does not believe reflect its fundamental business performance and (ii) financial measures the Company uses in the management of its business.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This press release contains forward-looking statements. In addition, the Company, and others on its behalf, in the future may make statements that constitute forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements that the Company makes are the Company's expectations, opinions, views or beliefs at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing estimates or making statements based on current expectations, opinions, views or beliefs, the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or statements or to provide any other information relating to such estimates or statements. Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2008 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The risks that we face include the following:
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2007.


