FILE:WM/WM-8K-20080714084030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The following information, including the text of the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 9.01 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On July 14, 2008, Waste Management, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release regarding the Companys preliminary financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. The full text of the Companys press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.
 
Date:
 
July 14, 2008
By: 
/s/ Rick L Wittenbraker
Rick L Wittenbraker
Senior Vice President
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Further Information:
Waste Management, Inc.
Analysts: Greg Nikkel - 713.265.1358
Media: Lynn Brown - 713.394.5093
Web site: http://www.wm.com
WMI #08-10
HOUSTON  July 14, 2008 
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced preliminary revenue and earnings per diluted share results for the second quarter of 2008. Waste Management expects to report revenues of $3.49 billion, a 3.9% increase compared with the second quarter of 2007. Reported earnings for the second quarter of 2008 are expected to be $0.64 per diluted share, which includes a combined $0.02 to $0.03 per diluted share benefit to earnings from favorable income tax items and a reduction in interest expense associated with the early retirement of a senior note. Adjusting for these items, Waste Management expects earnings to be $0.61 or $0.62 per diluted share, which exceeds the current Wall Street consensus estimate of $0.58 per diluted share.
As previously announced, the Company plans to release its financial results for the second quarter of 2008 prior to the opening of the stock market on July 29, 2008 and will host a conference call that day to discuss in detail the quarters results.
David P. Steiner, Waste Managements CEO, stated, Our preliminary second quarter 2008 revenue and earnings per diluted share reflect the strength of our operations and our continued ability to achieve our financial objectives. Our internal revenue growth from yield on base business and volume are similar in this quarter to those in the first quarter of 2008.
These expected second quarter operating results are preliminary and subject to management and the Company's auditors completing their quarterly closing review procedures.
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the Company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The Companys customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America.
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains a discussion of earnings per diluted share, as adjusted for certain items, which is a non-GAAP measure, as defined in Regulation G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company reports its financial results in compliance with GAAP, but believes that also discussing non-GAAP measures provides investors with (i) additional, meaningful comparisons of current results to prior periods results by excluding items that the Company does not believe reflect its fundamental business performance and (ii) financial measures the Company uses in the management of its business.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This press release contains forward-looking statements. In addition, the Company, and others on its behalf, in the future may make statements that constitute forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements that the Company makes are the Companys expectations, opinions, views or beliefs at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing estimates or making statements based on current expectations, opinions, views or beliefs, the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or statements or to provide any other information relating to such estimates or statements. Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2008 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The risks that we face include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
 
 
 


