FILE:WM/WM-8K-20080724105814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On July 24, 2008, Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Greg Nikkel  713.265.1358 Media: Lynn Brown  713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.wm.com
Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher Ed Trissel / Jamie Moser 212.355.4449
WMI #08-12
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) announced that today it is filing a Notification and Report Form under the Hart-Scott-Rodino ("HSR") Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 relating to purchases of shares of Republic Services, Inc. This filing also will initiate the United States Department of Justice's expected antitrust review of Waste Management's proposed merger transaction with Republic and start the applicable HSR waiting period. Concurrent with the filing, Waste Management is notifying certain states' Attorneys General of Waste Management's HSR filing and intent to purchase Republic's shares. The notifications are being made in accordance with Waste Management's September 20, 1999 consent decree and other agreements with the United States Department of Justice and the states' Attorneys General.
HOUSTON  July 24, 2008 
About Waste Management
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the Company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The Company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding, among other things, the proposed acquisition of Republic by Waste Management and the intended purchases of Republic shares by Waste Management. Statements made in the future tense, and statements using words such as "intends," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "plans," "anticipates," and "believes," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and are beyond the control of Waste Management. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements, and therefore should be carefully considered. Relevant risks and uncertainties relating to the proposed transaction and intended purchases of Republic shares by Waste Management include, but are not limited to: the risk that required regulatory review and approval may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all; Republic's directors and stockholders may not approve the proposed transaction; the anticipated benefits and synergies of the proposed transaction may not be realized; the integration of Republic's operations with Waste Management could be materially delayed or may be more costly or difficult than expected; financing may not be available or may not be available on satisfactory terms; the reaction of the credit markets (including rating agencies) to the proposed transaction and expected refinancings may not be as anticipated; the proposed transaction may not be consummated; and legal proceedings may be commenced against Waste Management. For a description of relevant risks and uncertainties generally applicable to Waste Management, please see Waste Management's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available on Waste Management's website or at www.sec.gov. In providing forward-looking statements, Waste Management does not intend, and is not undertaking any duty or obligation, to update these statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


