FILE:WM/WM-8K-20090429083759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release this morning, announcing its earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, a copy of which is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1.
     The Company is holding a conference call, open to the public, to discuss these results, from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Central time this morning. The call will be webcast live, and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. The call may also be listened to by calling (877) 710-6139 and entering the access code 90934084.
     On the conference call, management of the Company is expected to discuss results of operations using certain non-GAAP financial measures that are included in the Company's press release. The Company has provided information regarding its use of these non-GAAP measures and reconciliations of them to their most comparable GAAP measures in the press release that is attached to this Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1 and the schedules thereto.
     Management also is expected to discuss additional non-GAAP financial measures on the call, including diluted earnings per share as adjusted for the negative impact of the downturn in the recyclable commodities markets; operating expense as a percentage of revenue excluding the negative impacts of the recyclable commodities markets and fuel prices; and free cash flow.
     Management believes that a discussion of these non-GAAP measures provides investors with information to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and a supplemental means of evaluating the Company's operations. The non-GAAP information should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP.
     The reconciliation of earnings per diluted share to the adjusted earnings per diluted share we disclosed in the press release and as further adjusted for the negative effect of the recyclable commodities markets is shown below (dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
 
     The table below reconciles operating expenses as a percentage of revenues to operating expenses as a percentage of revenues excluding the effect of recyclable commodities and fuel prices (dollars in millions):
     The Company discusses its free cash flow because it believes that investors are interested in management's expectations about the cash it believes the Company will generate from non-financing activities that is available for uses such as acquisitions, share repurchases, scheduled debt reduction and the payment of dividends. The Company defines free cash flow as: (i) net cash provided by operating activities; (ii) less, capital expenditures; (iii) plus, proceeds from divestitures of businesses, net of cash divested, and other sales of assets. The Company's definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies, and therefore not subject to comparison. The tables below show the reconciliations of free cash flow to net cash generated by operating activities for the first quarter of 2009 the projection for the full-year 2009 (dollars in millions):
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
     Exhibit 99.1: Press Release dated April 29, 2009
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Jim Alderson - 713.394.2281 Media: Lynn Brown - 713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.wm.com
WMI #09-06
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WMI) today announced financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. Net income for the quarter was $155 million, or $0.31 per diluted share, compared with $241 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2008. Revenues for the first quarter of 2009 were $2.81 billion compared with $3.27 billion for the same 2008 period. Of the $456 million decrease in revenue, only $132 million, or 4.7% of revenue, comes from operational impacts to the solid waste collection and disposal business. The balance of the decline is due to commodity impacts related to recycling materials, fuel and energy, and non-operational items including foreign currency translation and one fewer work day during the first quarter of 2009.
HOUSTON  April 29, 2009 
(a)
The Company noted certain items that impacted results in the 2009 and 2008 first quarters. Excluding these items, net income would have been $0.42 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2009 compared with $0.47 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2008.
(b)
Results in the first quarter of 2009 included a decrease of $0.11 per diluted share from:
Results in the first quarter of 2008 included a net $0.01 per diluted share benefit due to $6 million of net income from income tax audit settlements.
David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management, commented, "I am pleased with the way we are performing during this challenging economic environment. We increased our income from operations margin on an as-adjusted basis by 70 basis points compared to the prior year period, and we generated strong cash flow. The majority of our business relates to commercial and residential sources and is generally recession resistant. Internal revenue growth from volume in our commercial and residential collection lines in the first quarter was consistent with our experience during 2008, at about negative 4% each. The fourth quarter volume declines that we saw in our more economically sensitive industrial collection, landfill, transfer & recycling businesses continued into 2009. We expect volumes in these economically sensitive lines of business to remain soft in 2009 and, as a result, we continue to focus on cost and pricing discipline and driving continued efficiency throughout our organization.
(b)
 
"As we anticipated, we saw a negative impact of $0.09 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2009, compared with the prior year period, as a result of the deterioration of the recycling commodities markets. Conditions have stabilized and prices have been trending upward from the lows reached in January. We continue to expect a negative year-over-year impact from recycling operations of $0.15 to $0.20 per diluted share for the full year 2009, most of which is expected to be in the first half of the year."
Steiner concluded, "At the beginning of February we restructured the Company to prepare ourselves for a slower economy, and these actions succeeded, saving us approximately $10 million per month in February and March. Consequently, we expect to exceed $120 million in annualized savings from our restructuring. The recession resistant qualities and strong cash flows of our solid waste business, combined with the proactive steps we are taking to strengthen our pricing programs and reduce our costs, give us confidence that we will continue to generate strong cash returns for our shareholders and emerge from this economic downturn even stronger than before. We remain confident that we will meet the 2009 goals that we announced earlier in the year."
Key Highlights for the First Quarter 2009
 
The Company has scheduled an investor and analyst conference call for later this morning to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the information on the conference call. The call will begin at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time and is open to the public. To listen to the conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, go to the Waste Management Website at , and select "Earnings Webcast." You may also listen to the analyst conference call by telephone by contacting the conference call operator 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 90934084." US/Canada Dial-In Number: (877) 710-6139. Int'l/Local Dial-In Number: (706) 643-7398. For those unable to listen to the live call, a replay will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern time on April 29th through 5:00 p.m. Eastern time on May 13th. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the Waste Management Website at . To hear a telephonic replay of the call, dial (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter reservation code 90934084.
http://www.wm.com
http://www.wm.com
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the Company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The Company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America.
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future events. Statements relating to future events and performance are "forward-looking statements." The forward-looking statements that the Company makes are the Company's expectations, opinion, view or belief at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing estimates or making statements based on current expectations, opinions, views or beliefs, the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or statements or to provide any other information relating to such estimates or statements. Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2009 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The following are some of the risks that we face:
 
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2009 presentation.
 
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2009 presentation.
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2009 presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 1
This exhibit provides details associated with the period-to-period change in revenues and includes internal revenue growth as a percent of revenues on a total company basis as well as a percent of revenues on related business. We believe providing this information will help our investors better understand the Company's Internal Revenue Growth information.
To explain how the following percent changes are calculated, provided below are the calculations for "Collection, Landfill and Transfer" as a percentage of Related Business and as a percentage of Total Company:
(i) "Collection, Landfill and Transfer" as a percentage of Related Business revenues of 3.3% is calculated by dividing the $84 million average yield by the denominator of $2,582 million. The denominator includes prior year "Collection, Landfill and Transfer" revenues ($2,594 million) less the impact of divestitures related to "Collection, Landfill and Transfer" ($12 million).
(ii) "Collection, Landfill and Transfer" as a percentage of Total Company revenues of 2.6% is calculated by dividing the $84 million average yield by the denominator of $3,254 million. The denominator includes prior year Total Company revenues ($3,266 million) less the impact of divestitures ($12 million).
 
 


