FILE:WM/WM-8K-20091029074721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") has issued a press release this morning, announcing its earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, a copy of which is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1. The Company is holding a conference call to discuss these results from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Central time this morning. The call will be webcast live, and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. The call may also be listened to by calling (877) 710-6139 and entering the access code 30064951.
     On the call, management of the Company is expected to discuss results of operations using certain non-GAAP financial measures that are included in the Company's press release. The Company has provided information regarding its use of the non-GAAP measures contained in its press release and reconciliations of them to their most comparable GAAP measures in the press release and the schedules thereto that are attached to this Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1.
     On the call, management is expected also to discuss the additional impacts that changes in (i) commodity prices had on its results of operations from its recycling operations and (ii) natural gas prices had on the electricity sales prices charged by its waste-to-energy plants, which negatively affected the Company's diluted earnings per share in the third quarter of 2009 on a year-over-year basis. Excluding these additional impacts, the Company's third quarter 2009 earnings per diluted share would have been $0.63 per share on an as adjusted basis, the same as in the comparable prior year period. Management believes this discussion provides investors with information to better enable them to evaluate the Company's results of operations by excluding the impact of items that the Company believes were due to general economic conditions as opposed to operations. The non-GAAP information should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP.
     The reconciliation of earnings per diluted share to adjusted earnings per diluted share is shown below (dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1:      Press Release dated October 29, 2009
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Jim Alderson  713.394.2281 Media: Lynn Brown  713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.wm.com
WM #09-13
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WM) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2009. Net income for the quarter was $277 million, or $0.56 per diluted share, compared with $310 million, or $0.63 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2008. Revenues for the third quarter of 2009 were $3.02 billion compared with $3.53 billion for the same 2008 period. Results in the 2009 third quarter included a net benefit of $0.02 per diluted share from the combined effects of certain favorable income tax adjustments and charges related to our restructuring announced in February 2009. Excluding those items, earnings would have been $265 million, or $0.54 per diluted share.
HOUSTON  October 29, 2009 
(a)
(b)
David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management, commented, "The third quarter once again shows the strength of our strategy to maintain pricing while reducing costs. Our collection and disposal pricing remained strong, with internal revenue growth from yield of 2.9%. Recycling commodity prices increased each month in the third quarter, and have increased over 80% from the lows reached in January of 2009. On the cost side, the company-wide restructuring we announced in February produced savings consistent with the prior quarter, and we expect to exceed our original forecast of annualized savings of $120 million.
"Our commercial and residential business lines continued to demonstrate their recession-resistant qualities. Commercial revenue, excluding revenue from our fuel surcharge, remained solid, declining just 0.7% compared with the third quarter of 2008. Residential revenue, excluding revenue from our fuel surcharge, performed even better, declining only 0.4% compared with the prior year period."
Key Highlights for the Third Quarter 2009
 
Steiner continued, "Economic conditions and our volumes have stabilized. So, as we look to the fourth quarter of this year, we expect the rate of decline in volumes to be slightly better than the rate of decline in the third quarter of 2009. In addition, our recycling business has shown consistent improvement since the lows in commodity prices reached during January 2009, and we expect a positive $0.02 to $0.04 impact on earnings per diluted share from our recycling operations in the fourth quarter of 2009, compared with the prior year period. On the other hand, we expect lower year-over-year natural gas prices to cause lower electricity sales prices in the fourth quarter of 2009, which would cause earnings per diluted share to decline $0.02 to $0.04 compared with the prior year period. So, we expect the negative effect from lower electricity sales prices to be offset by the positive effect from recycled commodities prices. Given these factors, we are comfortable we can achieve our previously issued full year 2009 earnings guidance of $1.95 to $1.99 per diluted share on an as adjusted basis. This is consistent with the current Wall Street earnings consensus of $0.48 per share for the fourth quarter of 2009. We continue to target full-year free cash flow of approximately $1.3 billion."
(b)
Steiner concluded, "During the economic downturn we have maintained our commitment to returning cash to our shareholders. In the third quarter we paid out $143 million in dividends and repurchased $65 million of common stock. We also closed $82 million of acquisitions in the quarter. The recession-resistant qualities and strong cash flows of our solid waste business, combined with our focus on pricing and cost reduction, give us confidence that we will continue to generate strong cash returns for our shareholders and emerge from this economic downturn as a stronger, leaner company that is positioned to grow."
 
 
The Company has scheduled an investor and analyst conference call for later this morning to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the information on the conference call. The call will begin at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time and is open to the public. To listen to the conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, go to the Waste Management Website at , and select "Earnings Webcast." You may also listen to the analyst conference call by telephone by contacting the conference call operator 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 30064951." US/Canada Dial-In Number: (877) 710-6139. Int'l/Local Dial-In Number: (706) 643-7398. For those unable to listen to the live call, a replay will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern time on October 29th through 5:00 p.m. Eastern time on November 12th. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the Waste Management Website at
http://www.wm.com
 
. To hear a telephonic replay of the call, dial (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter reservation code 30064951.
http://www.wm.com
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the Company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The Company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America.
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future events. Statements relating to future events and performance are "forward-looking statements." The forward-looking statements that the Company makes are the Company's expectations, opinion, view or belief at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing estimates or making statements based on current expectations, opinions, views or beliefs, the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or statements or to provide any other information relating to such estimates or statements. Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2009 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The following are some of the risks that we face:
 
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2009 presentation.
 
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2009 presentation.
 
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2009 presentation.
 
Note: Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to 2009 presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 1
This exhibit provides details associated with the period-to-period change in revenues and includes internal revenue growth as a percent of revenues on a total company basis as well as a percent of revenues on related business. We believe providing this information will help our investors better understand the Company's Internal Revenue Growth information.
To explain how the following percent changes are calculated, provided below are the calculations for "Collection, landfill and transfer" as a percentage of Related Business and as a percentage of Total Company:
(i) "Collection, landfill and transfer" as a percentage of related business revenues of 3.1% is calculated by dividing the $85 million average yield by the denominator of $2,733 million. The denominator includes prior year "Collection, landfill and transfer" revenues ($2,742 million) less the impact of divestitures related to "Collection, landfill and transfer" ($9 million).
(ii) "Collection, landfill and transfer" as a percentage of total company revenus of 2.4% is calculated by dividing the $85 million average yield by the denominator of $3,516 million. The denominator includes prior year total company revenues ($3,525 million) less the impact of divestitures ($9 million).
The revenue information below represents the denominator used to calculate the percentages of related business and is defined as prior year revenue less the impact of divestitures.
Note:
 
Average yield from "Collection and Disposal" excludes any electricity related revenues. These electricity revenues are now included within Average Yield in the "Electricity" caption. Note that the "Waste to Energy" component of "Collection and Disposal" is primarily disposal related revenues. We have reclassified prior periods to conform to the 2009 presentation.
 
 


