FILE:WM/WM-8K-20100429081708.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") has issued a press release this morning, announcing its earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, a copy of which is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1. The Company is holding a conference call to discuss these results from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Central time this morning. The call will be webcast live, and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. The call may also be listened to by calling (877) 710-6139 and entering the access code 64713577.
     On the call, management of the Company is expected to discuss results of operations using certain non-GAAP financial measures that are included in the Company's press release. The Company has provided information regarding its use of the non-GAAP measures contained in its press release and reconciliations of them to their most comparable GAAP measures in the press release and the schedules thereto that are attached to this Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1. Management also is expected to discuss (i) its operating expenses as a percentage of revenues, as adjusted for the negative impact of the Company's withdrawal of certain bargaining units from an under-funded multi-employer pension plan and (ii) its projected full year free cash flow. Management believes these discussions provide investors with information to better enable them to evaluate the Company's financial condition and results of operations by (i) excluding the impact of an item that was non-operational in nature and therefore not representative of the Company's ongoing operating expenses and (ii) disclosing to investors the Company's projection of cash produced by non-financing activities that should be available for such uses as acquisitions, share repurchases and dividend payments after any committed expenditures have been made. Non-GAAP information should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP.
     The reconciliation of GAAP operating expenses as a percentage of revenues to the non-GAAP percentage, adjusted for the effect of the increased expense due to the withdrawal from the pension plan, is shown below (dollars in millions):
     The reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the most comparable GAAP measure, is shown below (dollars in millions). The Company's definition of free cash flow may be different from, and therefore not comparable to, similarly titled measures presented by other
 
companies. Additionally, the reconciliation illustrates two scenarios that show our projected free cash flow range. The amounts used in the reconciliation are subject to many variables, some of which are not in our control and therefore are not necessarily indicative of what actual results will be.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Further Information: Waste Management, Inc. Analysts: Jim Alderson - 713.394.2281 Media: Lynn Brown - 713.394.5093 Web site: http://www.wm.com
WM #10-06
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WM) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2010. Net income for the quarter was $182 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, compared with $155 million, or $0.31 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2009. This is an increase in earnings per diluted share of over 19%. Revenues for the first quarter of 2010 were $2.93 billion compared with $2.81 billion for the same 2009 period, an increase of 4.4%.
HOUSTON  April 29, 2010 
(a)
The Company noted several items that impacted results in the 2010 and 2009 first quarters. Results in the first quarter of 2010 included a $17 million after-tax charge related to the partial withdrawal from a Teamsters' under-funded multi-employer pension plan. Results in the first quarter of 2009 included a $23 million reduction in net income due to charges related to the restructuring announced in February 2009, and a $30 million reduction in net income related to the abandonment of a revenue management system. Excluding these items, net income would have been $199 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2010 compared with $208 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2009.
(b)
David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management, commented, "We saw further signs of improvement in our business during the first quarter of 2010. Revenue increased over 4% compared with the first quarter of 2009, primarily because of improving commodity prices and year-over-year yield increases. And volume comparisons continued to show improving trends.
"In addition, we overcame several headwinds to produce solid first quarter results. That included severe winter weather, a $0.01 per diluted share expense related to our decision to add stock options as part of our long-term compensation program, and a year-over-year negative impact of $0.02 per diluted share relating to fuel costs, net of fuel surcharge revenues.
"Internal revenue growth from volume declined by 4.9% in the first quarter of 2010, an improvement of 150 basis points compared with the decline experienced in the fourth quarter of 2009. Compared with the third quarter of 2009, the rate of volume decline has improved 400 basis points. As we look at volumes for the remainder of 2010, we continue to expect the rate of
 
decline to show improvement in the second quarter and for volumes to turn positive during the second half of the year."
Steiner continued, "Our internal revenue growth from yield for our collection and disposal business was 1.8%. We anticipated that yield would be lower during the first half of 2010 because the consumer price index was quite low, and even negative, for several months during the last half of 2009. This decline in the index affected recent contract price adjustments. Excluding the price impacts associated with municipal and franchise contracts, which are primarily driven by CPI adjustments, internal revenue growth from yield would have been 2.5% for the quarter. The CPI index is now running over 2% for the first three months of 2010. In addition, we have increased our environmental fee from 6.0% to 7.5%. So, we expect our internal revenue growth from yield to strengthen throughout the year."
Key Highlights for the First Quarter 2010
"We remain committed to returning cash to our shareholders while at the same time making strategic investments that will increase future cash flows. In the first quarter we paid $153 million in dividends and repurchased $120 million of common stock. We also completed over $80 million of tuck-in acquisitions. On March 23, 2010, we closed on our previously announced acquisition of a 40% interest in Shanghai Environment Group (SEG). SEG is the leading
 
company in China in the fast-growing waste-to-energy market. We also expect to close today on the purchase of a waste-to-energy facility owned by the Southeastern Public Service Authority, located in Virginia."
Steiner concluded, "Virtually all of the signs that we have seen in our business during March and early April suggest a continuing upturn in volumes during the second quarter. Recycling commodity prices remain at a high level, and our recent pricing activities will provide immediate benefit. Given these positive indications, we are confident that we will meet our previously announced full year 2010 earnings guidance range of $2.09 to $2.13 per diluted share, with earnings momentum building steadily throughout the year."
(b)
 
 
The Company has scheduled an investor and analyst conference call for later this morning to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the information on the conference call. A live audio webcast of the conference call can be accessed at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time, April 29, 2010 by logging onto www.WM.com and selecting "Events and Presentations" under the Investor Relations tab. You may also listen to the analyst conference call by telephone by contacting the conference call operator 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time and asking for the "Waste Management Conference Call  Call ID 64713577." US/Canada Dial-In Number: (877) 710-6139. Int'l/Local Dial-In Number: (706) 643-7398. A replay will be available beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern time on April 29th through 5:00 p.m. Eastern time on May 13th. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the Waste Management Website at . To hear a telephonic replay of the call, dial (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter reservation code 64713577.
http://www.wm.com
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through subsidiaries, the Company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities. The Company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America.
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future events. Statements relating to future events and performance are "forward-looking statements." The forward-looking statements that the Company makes are the Company's expectations, opinion, view or belief at the point in time of issuance but may change at some future point in time. By issuing estimates or making statements based on current expectations, opinions, views or beliefs, the Company has no obligation, and is not undertaking any obligation, to update such estimates or statements or to provide any other information relating to such estimates or statements. Outlined below are some of the risks that the Company faces and that could affect our financial statements for 2010 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the Company. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The following are some of the risks that we face:
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


