FILE:WM/WM-8K-20110428080859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release this morning announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The Company is holding a conference call to discuss these results beginning at 9:00 a.m. Central Time this morning. The call will be webcast live and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. The call may also be heard by dialing (877) 710-6139 and entering access code 51272844.
     On the call, management of the Company is expected to discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures that are included in the Company's press release. The Company has provided information regarding its use of the non-GAAP measures contained in its press release and reconciliations of such measures to their most comparable GAAP measures.
     Management also is expected to discuss the impact of certain adjustments to GAAP earnings per diluted share. Management believes these discussions provide investors with information to better enable them to evaluate the Company's financial condition and results of operations by excluding items that management believes do not reflect the Company's solid waste performance and are not indicative of our results of operations.
     The reconciliation of GAAP earnings per diluted share to earnings per diluted share, excluding certain items, is shown below:
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Waste Management Announces First Quarter 2011 Earnings
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WM) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2011. Net income for the quarter was $186 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, compared with $182 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2010. This is an increase in earnings per diluted share of over 5%. Revenues for the first quarter of 2011 were $3.10 billion compared with $2.93 billion for the same 2010 period, an increase of 5.7%.
HOUSTON  April 28, 2011 
(a)
The Company noted one significant item that impacted results in the 2010 first quarter. Results in the first quarter of 2010 included a $17 million after-tax charge related to the partial withdrawal from a Teamsters' underfunded multiemployer pension plan.
David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management, commented, "Our revenue continued the recent trend of year-over-year growth, increasing over 5% compared with the first quarter of 2010, primarily because of strong yield in our collection and disposal business, higher commodity prices, and improving recycling volumes.
"Our solid waste business continued to perform well, with both pricing and volumes improved from the fourth quarter. Recycling continued to be a significant contributor to earnings, and we continued to generate robust free cash flow, generating $289 million of free cash in the quarter.
"We achieved this solid performance in the face of headwinds totaling $0.09 per diluted share. Year-over-year we had a negative impact of $0.02 per diluted share from our waste-to-energy operations and $0.01 per diluted share from stock option grants under our long-term compensation program. We also had negative impacts of $0.03 per diluted share from our cost reduction initiatives, and a negative $0.03 per diluted share from our growth initiatives. We expect these headwinds to be short term, with our waste-to-energy business, cost reduction initiatives and growth initiatives beginning to add to earnings in the second half of the year and accelerating into 2012.
"Internal revenue growth from volume declined by 1.7% in the first quarter of 2011, an improvement of 10 basis points compared with the decline experienced in the fourth quarter of 2010. We had anticipated stronger volumes in the first quarter, but severe winter had a negative effect. As we look at volumes for the remainder of 2011, we anticipate that we will see seasonal improvements and that full year 2011 volumes will be closer to flat year-over-year."
Steiner continued, "Our internal revenue growth from yield for our collection and disposal operations was 2.8%. This represents the highest yield since the third quarter of 2009 and the third quarter of sequential growth."
FOR MORE INFORMATION
Waste Management
Web site
www.wm.com
Ed Egl 713.265.1656
Analysts
eegl@wm.com
Lynn Brown 713.394.5093
Media
lynnbrown@wm.com
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS FOR THE FIRST QUARTER 2011
Steiner concluded, "Our free cash flow in the first quarter was $36 million better than the prior year quarter despite an increase in capital expenditures of $61 million. We remain committed to returning cash to our shareholders, and in the first quarter we paid $162 million in dividends and repurchased $63 million of common stock.
"The investments we are making in our growth initiatives and cost reduction programs in the first half of the year are on plan, and we expect to see the associated benefits starting in the third quarter and accelerating through 2012.
"With recycling commodity prices remaining at a high level, an expected improvement in solid waste volumes, and the benefits from our initiatives starting to appear during the second half of the year, we are confident that we are on track to meet our previously announced full year 2011 adjusted earnings guidance of $2.24 to $2.30 per diluted share and to achieve our expected free cash flow of between $1.25 billion to $1.35 billion."
(b)
 
The Company will host a conference call at 10:00 AM (Eastern) today to discuss the first quarter 2011 results. Information contained within this press release will be referenced and should be considered in conjunction with the call.
The conference call will be webcast live from the Investor Relations section of Waste Management's website . To access the conference call by telephone, please dial (877) 710-6139 approximately 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start of the call. If you are calling from outside of the United States or Canada, please dial (706) 643-7398. Please utilize conference ID number 51272844 when prompted by the conference call operator.
www.wm.com
A replay of the conference call will be available on our website and by telephone from approximately 1:00 PM (Eastern) Thursday, April 28, 2011 through 5:00
www.wm.com
 
PM (Eastern) on Thursday, May 12, 2011. To access the replay telephonically, please dial 800-642-1687, or from outside of the United States or Canada dial 706-645-9291, and use the replay conference ID number 51272844.
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future events. Statements relating to future events and performance are "forward-looking statements" and include statements regarding financial results, business goals and investments and cost reduction programs, capital allocation, including future dividends, share repurchases and capital expenditures, strategic growth initiatives and their future performance, future volume and pricing and related trends, future recycling commodity prices, 2011 earnings per diluted share, 2011 free cash flow, and general market and industry conditions. You should view these statements with caution. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. They are based on the facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. All phases of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. Any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could cause actual results to be materially different from those set forth in such forward-looking statement. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, including financial estimates and forecasts, whether as a result of future events, circumstances or developments or otherwise.
The following are some of the risks that we face:
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1A of the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ABOUT WASTE MANAGEMENT
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America. To learn more information about Waste Management visit or
www.wm.com
www.thinkgreen.com.
###
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


