FILE:WM/WM-8K-20110728082013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release this morning announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The Company is holding a conference call to discuss these results beginning at 9:00 a.m. Central Time this morning. The call will be webcast live and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. The call may also be heard by dialing (877) 710-6139 and entering access code 73675301.
     On the call, management of the Company is expected to discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures that are included in the Company's press release. The Company has provided information regarding its use of the non-GAAP measures contained in its press release and reconciliations of such measures to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     The Company also issued a press release this morning announcing its acquisition of Oakleaf Global Holdings, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. On the conference call referenced in Item 2.02 above, management may address the subject of Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Waste Management Announces Second Quarter 2011 Earnings
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WM) today announced financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2011. Net income for the quarter was $237 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, compared with $246 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2010. Revenues for the second quarter of 2011 were $3.35 billion compared with $3.16 billion for the same 2010 period, an increase of 6.0%.
HOUSTON  July 28, 2011 
(a)
The Company noted that results in the second quarter of 2011 included a number of unexpected items, including a decrease of $0.02 per diluted share from increased repair and maintenance expenses, a decrease of $0.01 per diluted share from risk management, and $0.01 per diluted share from litigation settlement costs.
David P. Steiner, Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management, commented, "Our revenue continued the recent trend of year-over-year growth, increasing 6% compared with the second quarter of 2010, primarily because of higher commodity prices, improving recycling volumes, and collection and disposal yield.
"Recycling remained a significant contributor to earnings, and we continued to generate robust cash from operations, with $478 million of cash from operations in the quarter. In the first half of the year we made significant investments in our growth initiatives and cost reduction programs. These initiatives are largely performing according to our plans, and we expect to see the associated benefits in the third quarter and accelerating in future quarters.
"Internal revenue growth from volume declined by 1.7% in the second quarter of 2011. We expected to see stronger improvement during the second quarter, and we did see improved volumes in the first weeks of the quarter; but volumes hit a soft patch in May and June. Volumes look to be improving slightly in July, but given our first half volumes, we now expect to see volumes in the negative 1.5% to negative 2.5% range for the year."
Steiner continued, "Our internal revenue growth from yield for our collection and disposal operations was 1.6%. It would have been close to 2.0% if not for weakness in two areas, Florida and the Gulf Coast. Both areas saw weakness in residential pricing related to large municipal contracts, and the Gulf Coast had a negative year-over-year comparison primarily related to last year's oil spill project. In Florida we also had a shift in the mix of our roll-off volumes that negatively affected yield."
FOR MORE INFORMATION
Waste Management
Web site
www.wm.com
Ed Egl 713.265.1656
Analysts
eegl@wm.com
Media
Lynn Brown 713.394.5093
lynnbrown@wm.com
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS FOR THE SECOND QUARTER 2011
Steiner concluded, "Although we expected our yield to decrease from the first quarter, we are not satisfied that yield dropped below 2%. As a result, we are taking pricing actions intended to increase yield, and we still expect our full year yield to be about 2%.
"Given the current business environment and our current outlook for volumes, we have already instituted cost reduction programs. These cost reductions, combined with our pricing actions, are intended to generate at least $80 million in income from operations for the remainder of 2011.
"For the remainder of the year, we expect recycling commodity prices to remain strong, and for our waste-to-energy operations to achieve earnings similar to 2010 second half earnings. While we expect to see the benefits of our cost reduction programs and growth initiatives, we also expect to see weaker volumes in the second half than we originally planned. Consequently, we now project full year adjusted earnings per diluted share of between $2.14 and $2.18; and we expect our free cash flow to be about $1.25 billion. This guidance does not include any costs or benefits related to our acquisition of Oakleaf announced today."
(b)
 
 
Full Year 2011 Free Cash Flow Reconciliation
The Company will host a conference call at 10:00 AM (Eastern) today to discuss the second quarter 2011 results. Information contained within this press release will be referenced and should be considered in conjunction with the call.
The conference call will be webcast live from the Investor Relations section of Waste Management's website . To access the conference call by telephone, please dial (877) 710-6139 approximately 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start of the call. If you are calling from outside of the United States or Canada, please dial (706) 643-7398. Please utilize conference ID number 73675301when prompted by the conference call operator.
www.wm.com
A replay of the conference call will be available on our website and by telephone from approximately 1:00 PM (Eastern) Thursday, July 28, 2011 through 5:00 PM (Eastern) on Thursday, August 11, 2011. To access the replay telephonically, please dial 800-642-1687, or from outside of the United States or Canada dial 706-645-9291, and use the replay conference ID number 73675301.
www.wm.com
 
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future events. Statements relating to future events and performance are "forward-looking statements" and include statements regarding financial results, business goals and investments and cost reduction programs, earnings from waste-to-energy operations, strategic growth initiatives and their future performance, future volume and pricing and related trends, future recycling commodity prices, 2011 earnings per diluted share, 2011 free cash flow, and general market and industry conditions. You should view these statements with caution. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. They are based on the facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. All phases of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. Any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could cause actual results to be materially different from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, including financial estimates and forecasts, whether as a result of future events, circumstances or developments or otherwise.
The following are some of the risks that we face:
 
Additional information regarding these and/or other factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1A of the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ABOUT WASTE MANAGEMENT
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America. To learn more information about Waste Management visit or .
www.wm.com
www.thinkgreen.com
###
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Waste Management Announces Acquisition of Oakleaf
Strategic move expands company's customer base, service network and its ability to increase volumes
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WM) announced that today it will close the acquisition of Oakleaf Global Holdings and its primary operations for $425 million, subject to working capital and other adjustments. The combination will provide North American customers with unprecedented access to waste and recycling solutions by pairing the largest network of directly owned hauling, recycling, diversion and disposal assets with the largest managed third-party network.
HOUSTON and HARTFORD, Conn.  July 28, 2011 
In 2010, the acquired operations of Oakleaf generated approximately $580 million in revenues. Oakleaf has a North American vendor network of 2,500 preferred haulers, and is the North American leader in outsourced hauling, disposal, waste diversion and recycling services to support customers' waste and recycling solutions. Oakleaf shares WM's strategic focus on sustainability and technological innovation, and its substantial base of national accounts customers and service relationships provide a solid growth opportunity for WM.
"Acquiring Oakleaf advances our growth and transformation strategies of knowing more about our customers and how best to serve them, extracting more value from the material that we manage, and optimizing our operations. We substantially increase our national accounts customer base and further enhance our ability to provide comprehensive, best-in-class environmental solutions. In addition, Oakleaf's vendor hauler network expands our service footprint to new geographies and enhances customers' one-stop shopping for environmental solutions," said Waste Management CEO and President David P. Steiner.
"Importantly, Oakleaf's vendor network expands our partnership with third-party service providers," Steiner continued. "In many cases we can provide Oakleaf's vendor haulers with opportunities to maintain and increase their business by utilizing our extensive post-collection network. This will generate significant benefits for WM and for the vendor haulers.
"Customer demand is reshaping our industry and WM is well positioned to capitalize on the changing dynamics as we continue to grow, innovate and expand. Oakleaf enhances our positioning. We are proud of our first-rate services and products that provide environmental solutions to customers, and we look forward to Oakleaf's vendor haulers delivering those services and products to their customer base. So, we expect this transaction will provide substantial value for our and Oakleaf's customers, the vendor hauler network and our shareholders," Steiner added.
Steve Preston, President and CEO of Oakleaf commented: "We are pleased to be joining Waste Management, the undisputed leader in our industry with one of the most respected brands in the nation. WM has world-class products and services and we share WM's clear
FOR MORE INFORMATION
Waste Management
Web site
www.wm.com
Ed Egl 713.265.1656
Analysts
eegl@wm.com
Lynn Brown 713.394.5093
Media
lynnbrown@wm.com
      
 
vision about the future of our industry. Oakleaf brings a waste hauling, waste diversion and recycling vendor network along with a shared focus on customers. I am confident that our customers will benefit from WM's material recovery strategies that provide customers with multiple options. Our vendor hauler partners will also benefit from the increased array of services that they can offer to their customers  enabling them to grow their businesses further. I look forward to joining the WM team to ensure a smooth transition."
This acquisition aligns with Waste Management's financial goals of growing earnings, expanding margins, increasing free cash flow, and increasing returns on invested capital. The company expects a three to six month integration period. The company anticipates certain costs associated with the integration and therefore does not expect the transaction to be accretive to earnings during that time. Subsequent to the transition period, the company expects to generate a minimum of $80 million in EBITDA on an annualized basis.
As previously announced, Waste Management is holding a conference call this morning to discuss its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 beginning at 9:00 a.m. Central Time. On the call, management may discuss the subject of this press release. The call will be webcast live and may be heard by accessing the WM website at www.wm.com. The call may also be heard by dialing (877) 710-6139 and entering access code 73675301. A replay of the conference call will be available on www.wm.com and by telephone from approximately 1:00 PM (Eastern) Thursday, July 28, 2011 through 5:00 PM (Eastern) on Thursday, August 11, 2011. To access the replay telephonically, please dial 800-642-1687, or from outside of the United States or Canada dial 706-645-9291, and use the replay conference ID number 73675301.
ABOUT WASTE MANAGEMENT
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is the largest recycler in North America and a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America. To learn more information about Waste Management visit www.wm.com or www.thinkgreen.com.
ABOUT OAKLEAF
Founded in 1995 and headquartered in Connecticut with 650 employees and a nationwide network of 2,500 preferred haulers, Oakleaf provides the first-to-market, asset-light business model with unparalleled technology for some of the largest, most progressive, environmentally minded companies in North America.
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements relating to future events and performance are "forward-looking statements" and include statements regarding closing and funding the transaction described herein, as well as statements related to results and impacts from the transaction, such as EBITDA and synergies anticipated integration timeframe, strategic and financial alignment, internalization of volumes and growth opportunities. You should view these statements with caution. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. They are based on information known to us as of the date the statements are made. All phases of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. Specifically with respect to the transaction described herein, we face risks that we may be unable to achieve the synergies and savings anticipated, we may be unable to promptly and effectively integrate the merged business, and the transaction may result in unanticipated diversion of management time and company resources. Any of these and other factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could cause actual results to be materially different from those set forth in such forward-looking statement. We assume no
 
obligation to update any forward-looking statement, including financial estimates and forecasts, whether as a result of future events, circumstances or developments or otherwise. Additional information regarding factors that could materially affect results and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained herein may be found in Part I, Item 1A of the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.


