FILE:WM/WM-8K-20121031080524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release this morning announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The Company is holding a conference call to discuss these results beginning at 9:00 a.m. Central Time this morning. The call will be webcast live and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. The call may also be heard by dialing (877) 710-6139 and entering access code 30012751.
On the call, management of the Company is expected to discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures that are included in the Company's press release. The Company has provided information regarding its use of such non-GAAP measures and reconciliations of such measures to their most comparable GAAP measures in the footnote and schedules to the press release.
In addition to the non-GAAP measures contained and reconciled in the press release, management is also expected to discuss adjusted operating expenses, adjusted operating expenses as a percent of revenues, adjusted SG&A expenses, and adjusted SG&A expenses as a percent of revenues. Management believes these non-GAAP measures provide investors with useful information to evaluate the Company's performance by excluding items that management believes are not representative of our performance or indicative of our results of operations. The reconciliation of these additional non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are shown below.
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Waste Management Announces Third Quarter Earnings
Waste Management, Inc. (NYSE: WM) today announced financial results for its quarter ended September 30, 2012. Revenues for the third quarter of 2012 were $3.46 billion compared with $3.52 billion for the same 2011 period. The Company was negatively impacted by a decline in recycling commodity prices, which decreased revenues by $176 million. Net income
HOUSTON  October 31, 2012 
(a)
 for the quarter was $214 million, or $0.46 per diluted share, compared with $272 million, or $0.58 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2011.
Net income would have been $285 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2012 compared with $295 million, or $0.63 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2011
(b)
, if not for the following after-tax charges:
 
 
David P. Steiner, President and Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management, commented, "The third quarter saw some good and improving trends. We saw improvement in both our internal revenue growth from collection and disposal yield and work-day adjusted volumes. Collection and disposal yield improved sequentially for the first time in six quarters, and we saw positive internal revenue growth from both yield and volume in our MSW, C&D and special waste landfill operations. Our overall income from operations margin, as adjusted, improved by 30 basis points despite a significant decline in commodity prices.
(b)
"Commodity price declines in our recycling and waste-to-energy operations led to a $0.10 year-over-year earnings per share negative impact in the third quarter. We anticipate another $0.04 per share of headwinds in the fourth quarter. So, the total headwinds for the second half of the year related to commodities are estimated to be $0.14 per diluted share, or $0.07 higher than we previously anticipated at the end of the second quarter. I am pleased that we were able to produce strong quarterly results in the face of these headwinds."
KEY HIGHLIGHTS FOR THE THIRD QUARTER 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Steiner added, "Our 2012 full-year earnings guidance of $2.15 to $2.20 per share was based upon commodity prices causing a second half reduction in earnings of $0.07 per share. We now expect a second half reduction in earnings of $0.14 per share, which is $0.07 more than our previous prediction. The additional $0.07 impact from lower commodity prices would adjust our guidance to a range of $2.08 to $2.13 per diluted share.
(b) 
Our solid waste collection and disposal business continues to operate as expected, and we are seeing some favorable trends moving into 2013 on both pricing and SG&A costs.
"Our full year cash flow guidance of $1.1 to $1.2 billion has three parts: cash from operations, capital expenditures, and sales of assets. We are on track to meet or exceed the cash from operations and capital expenditure components of our 2012 free cash flow, which would generate between $800 million and $850 million of cash for the full year. As discussed after the second quarter, our full-year free cash flow range assumed the sale of selected assets. We are in the process of evaluating opportunities to sell these assets. If we decide not to sell these assets at this time, or we do not complete the sales before year end, it will reduce the proceeds from divestitures component of our free cash flow, but will not affect cash flow from operations."
(c)
Steiner concluded, "Recycling commodity prices and natural gas prices have stabilized recently, with recycling commodity prices actually up modestly in the last few weeks. Given our current outlook for relatively stable commodity prices for full-year 2013, we do not expect significant headwinds from commodity prices for the full year 2013. With our recent restructuring anticipated to reduce costs by $130 million in 2013, our other cost programs picking up steam, and our focus on pricing to improve yield over our 2012 results, we expect to see earnings and cash flows strengthen in 2013. We will give further guidance with respect to 2013 when we release our fourth quarter 2012 results."
 
The Company's projected full year 2012 earnings per diluted share are not GAAP net earnings per diluted share and are anticipated to be adjusted to exclude the effects of events or circumstances in 2012 that are not representative or indicative of the Company's results of operations. Projected GAAP earnings per diluted share for the full year would require inclusion of the projected impact of future excluded items, including items that are not currently determinable, but may be significant, such as asset impairments and one-time items, charges, gains or losses from divestitures or litigation, or other items. Due to the uncertainty of the likelihood, amount and timing of any such items, the Company does not have information available to provide a quantitative reconciliation of adjusted projected full year earnings per diluted share to a GAAP earnings per diluted share projection.
 
 
 
The Company's definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies, and therefore is not subject to comparison. The quantitative reconciliation of free cash flow for the quarter to the most comparable GAAP measure is included in the accompanying schedules. Non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP, and investors are urged to take into account GAAP measures as well as non-GAAP measures in evaluating the Company.
After the second quarter, the Company provided the following reconciliation that presents two scenarios that illustrate projected free cash flow for 2012. The amounts used in this reconciliation are subject to many variables, some of which are not under our control and, therefore, are not necessarily indicative of results.
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
The Company will host a conference call at 10:00 AM (Eastern) today to discuss the third quarter 2012 results. Information contained within this press release will be referenced and should be considered in conjunction with the call.
The conference call will be webcast live from the Investor Relations section of Waste Management's website . To access the conference call by telephone, please dial (877) 710-6139 approximately 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start of the call. If you are calling from outside of the United States or Canada, please dial (706) 643-7398. Please utilize conference ID number 30012751 when prompted by the conference call operator.
www.wm.com
A replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's website and by telephone from approximately 1:00 PM (Eastern) Wednesday, October 31, 2012 through 5:00 PM (Eastern) on Wednesday, November 14, 2012. To access the replay telephonically, please dial (855) 859-2056, or from outside of the United States or Canada dial (404) 537-3406, and use the replay conference ID number 30012751.
www.wm.com
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future events. This press release contains a number of such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to 2012 earnings per diluted share; 2012 free cash flow and its individual components; 2013 earnings and free cash flow; 2013 restructuring cost savings, and statements regarding the results from recycling and waste-to-energy operations and related commodity prices; results for core solid waste operations; sales of non-core assets; results from pricing initiatives; overall results of operations and business prospects; and general market and industry conditions. You should view these statements with caution. They are based on the facts and circumstances known to the Company as of the date the statements are made. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be materially different from those set forth in such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, commodity price fluctuations; increased competition; pricing actions; failure to implement our optimization and growth initiatives and overall business strategy; failure to successfully implement our restructuring actions and/or failure of those actions to achieve the goals and cost savings intended; business disruption and employee distraction resulting from our restructuring; changes in our organizational structure and workforce and resulting restructuring or impairment charges; environmental and other regulations; disposal alternatives and waste diversion; declining waste volumes; failure to develop and protect new technology; significant environmental or other incidents resulting in liabilities and brand damage; weakness in economic conditions; failure to obtain and maintain necessary permits; labor disruptions; impairment charges; and negative outcomes of litigation or governmental proceedings. Please also see the Company's filings with the SEC, including Part I, Item 1A of the Company's most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information regarding these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our business. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, including financial estimates and forecasts, whether as a result of future events, circumstances or developments or otherwise.
ABOUT WASTE MANAGEMENT
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America. To learn more information about Waste Management visit or .
www.wm.com
www.thinkgreen.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


