FILE:WM/WM-8K-20120426075355.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Waste Management, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release this morning announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The Company is holding a conference call to discuss these results beginning at 9:00 a.m. Central Time this morning. The call will be webcast live and may be heard by accessing the Company's website at www.wm.com. The call may also be heard by dialing (877) 710-6139 and entering access code 61793696.
On the call, management of the Company is expected to discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures that are included in the Company's press release. The Company has provided information regarding its use of the non-GAAP measures contained in its press release and reconciliations of such measures to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
WASTE MANAGEMENT ANNOUNCES FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS FOR THE FIRST QUARTER 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Steiner concluded, "We are on plan through the first quarter and encouraged by the pick-up in our overall internal growth in our core solid waste business. Recycling and waste-to-energy commodity prices will continue to affect the second quarter, but in the second half of the year the effect of commodity prices should moderate. We anticipate seeing benefits from improved pricing, a seasonal pick-up in volumes, procurement and other savings, and the full integration of our acquired Oakleaf operations. Accordingly, we expect to achieve full-year adjusted earnings per diluted share of between $2.22 and $2.30. With effective capital management, our free cash flow will accelerate during the year and we expect to generate between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion of free cash flow for the year."
(b)
 
The Company's projected full year 2012 earnings of $2.22 to $2.30 per diluted share are not GAAP net earnings per diluted share and are anticipated to be adjusted to exclude the effects of events or circumstances in 2012 that are not representative or indicative of the Company's results of operations. Projected GAAP earnings per diluted share for the full year would require inclusion of the projected impact of future excluded items, including items that are not currently determinable, but may be significant, such as asset impairments and one-time items, charges, gains or losses from divestitures or litigation, or other items. Due to the uncertainty of the likelihood, amount and timing of any such items, the Company does not have information available to provide a quantitative reconciliation of adjusted projected full year earnings per diluted share to a GAAP earnings per diluted share projection.
The Company also discusses free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure, and provides a projection of free cash flow, because it believes that it is indicative of our ability to pay our quarterly dividends, repurchase common stock, fund acquisitions and other investments and, in the absence of refinancings, to repay our debt obligations. Free cash flow is not intended to replace
"
Net cash provided by operating activities," which is the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure. However, the Company believes free cash flow gives investors useful insight into how the Company views its liquidity. Nonetheless, the use of free cash flow as a liquidity measure has material limitations because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that the Company has committed to, such as declared dividend payments and debt service requirements. The Company defines free cash flow as:
 
 
 
The Company's definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies, and therefore is not subject to comparison. The quantitative reconciliation of non-GAAP measures used herein to the most comparable GAAP measures is included in the accompanying schedules. Non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP, and investors are urged to take into account GAAP measures as well as non-GAAP measures in evaluating the Company.
The Company will host a conference call at 10:00 AM (Eastern) today to discuss the first quarter 2012 results. Information contained within this press release will be referenced and should be considered in conjunction with the call.
The conference call will be webcast live from the Investor Relations section of Waste Management's website . To access the conference call by telephone, please dial (877) 710-6139 approximately 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start of the call. If you are calling from outside of the United States or Canada, please dial (706) 643-7398. Please utilize conference ID number 61793696 when prompted by the conference call operator.
www.wm.com
A replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's website and by telephone from approximately 1:00 PM (Eastern) Thursday, April 26, 2012 through 5:00 PM (Eastern) on Thursday, May 10, 2012. To access the replay telephonically, please dial (855) 859-2056, or from outside of the United States or Canada dial (404) 537-3406, and use the replay conference ID number 61793696.
www.wm.com
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future events. This press release contains a number of such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to 2012 earnings per diluted share, 2012 free cash flow, and statements regarding future changes in working capital; future capital expenditures; future internal revenue growth from yield and volume; results from recycling and waste-to-energy operations and related commodity prices; future pricing, volumes, and cost savings; integration of our Oakleaf operations; overall results of operations and business prospects; and general market and industry conditions. You should view these statements with caution. They are based on the facts and circumstances known to the Company as of the date the statements are made. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be materially different from those set forth in such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, increased competition; pricing actions; failure to implement our optimization and growth initiatives and overall business strategy; environmental and other regulations; commodity price fluctuations; disposal alternatives and waste diversion; declining waste volumes; failure to develop and protect new technology; significant environmental or other incidents resulting in liabilities and brand damage; weakness in economic conditions; failure to obtain and maintain necessary permits; labor disruptions; impairment charges; and negative outcomes of litigation or governmental proceedings. Please also see the Company's filings with the SEC, including Part I, Item 1A of the Company's most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information regarding these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our business. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, including financial estimates and forecasts, whether as a result of future events, circumstances or developments or otherwise.
ABOUT WASTE MANAGEMENT
Waste Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America. Through its subsidiaries, the company provides collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. It is also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. The company's customers include residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal customers throughout North America. To learn more information about Waste Management visit or .
www.wm.com
www.thinkgreen.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


