ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION TO MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS The purpose of this section, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, is to provide a narrative explanation of our financial statements that enables investors to better understand the Company, to enhance our overall financial disclosures, to provide the context within which financial information may be analyzed, and to provide information about the quality of, and potential variability of, our earnings and cash flows. This information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements. It includes the following sections: Executive Overview Sources of Revenue Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Recently Issued Accounting Standards Critical Accounting Estimates 38 EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW SIGNIFICANT CHANGES AND INITIATIVES During 2004, we continued to focus on the development and execution of our operating strategies, including initiatives we introduced during the year ended December 31, 2003. Management is dedicated to improving our patients, shareholders and other stakeholders confidence in us. We believe we will do that by providing quality care and generating positive growth and earnings at our hospitals. Key initiatives and developments during 2004 included: Proposed Divestitures In January 2004, we announced a major restructuring of our operations involving the proposed divestiture of 27 general hospitals (19 in California and eight others in Louisiana, Massachusetts, Missouri and Texas). As of December 31, 2004, we had completed the divestiture of 18 of the 27 hospitals and entered into a definitive agreement for the sale of four more. We continue to work toward entering into definitive agreements to divest the remaining facilities in the plan, with transaction closings to take place as soon as possible. In addition to the restructuring program we announced in January 2004, we completed several other hospital divestitures in 2004 including our general hospital in Barcelona, Spain, certain hospital assets of Redding Medical Center in Redding, California and Medical College of Pennsylvania Hospital ("MCPH") in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. We also allowed our leases at Century City Hospital in Los Angeles, California and Suburban Medical Center in Paramount, California to expire and closed Northshore Psychiatric Hospital in Slidell, Louisiana. Our continuing operations, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2004, include only our core group of 69 general hospitals that will remain after all previously announced divestitures are completed. By focusing our financial and management resources on the 69 general hospitals that will remain, we expect to create a stronger company with greater potential for long term growth. Settlement of Litigation In December 2004, we reached an agreement to settle substantially all of the patient litigation against us and our subsidiaries arising out of the allegations of medically unnecessary coronary procedures performed at Redding Medical Center for $395 million. We also settled all of the patient litigation against us arising as a result of alleged postoperative infections at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center for $31 million, which we paid in December 2004. These settlements demonstrate the progress we have made to put some of our legal challenges related to past events behind us. Discounts for Uninsured Patients In March 2004, we announced that, where permitted by state law, we would be implementing managed care style discounts for most of our uninsured patients under our Compact with Uninsured Patients ("Compact"). The discounts for uninsured patients began to be phased in during the second quarter of 2004 at many of our hospitals and were in effect at 40 of our 69 general hospitals at the end of the year. Of the remaining 29 hospitals, 17 implemented the Compact during the first quarter of 2005; however, we are still evaluating and addressing legal and other issues that may limit our ability to implement the discounting components of the Compact at our hospitals in Texas. Corporate Headquarters Relocation On May 6, 2004, we announced that we would move our corporate headquarters to Dallas, Texas as part of our ongoing effort to improve organizational effectiveness. Effective January 3, 2005, our headquarters were officially moved to Dallas; however, certain functions continue to be systematically transferred to Dallas from our Santa Barbara offices, which will close by the end of June 2005. Opening of Two New Hospitals In June 2004, we completed construction of and opened two new hospitals, the 90 bed Saint Francis Hospital Bartlett in Bartlett, Tennessee, a suburb of Memphis, and the 118 bed Centennial Medical Center in Frisco, Texas, a suburb of Dallas. 39 Appointment of New Members to our Board of Directors In March and June 2004, respectively, we announced that Richard R. Pettingill and James A. Unruh had joined the companys board of directors as independent members. Mr. Pettingill was also appointed to the compensation and quality, compliance and ethics committees of the board, and Mr. Unruh was appointed to the audit and nominating and corporate governance committees of the board. Mr. Pettingill currently serves as the president and chief executive officer of Allina Hospitals & Clinics, a not for profit network of hospitals, clinics and other health care services based in Minneapolis. He also serves as a director for Allina, Minnesota Hospital Association, Safest in America and Minnesota Business Partnership. Mr. Unruh currently serves as principal of Alerion Capital Group, a private equity firm based in Phoenix. He also serves as a director of Prudential Financial Inc. Consolidation of Operating Regions In July 2004, we consolidated our operating regions from five to four in an effort to continue streamlining our operational structure as we build our future around 69 hospitals. Our four regions are California, Central Northeast Southern States, Florida Alabama and Texas Gulf Coast, all of which report directly to our chief operating officer. SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGES We believe we made progress this year in building a foundation for sustainable future growth, but our results were disappointing in the areas of volume and provision for doubtful accounts. Our performance was impacted by a combination of challenges specific to us and significant industry trends. Below is a summary of these items: Company Specific Challenges Volume decline Admissions and outpatient visits decreased from the prior year on a total hospital and same hospital basis. A portion of the decrease was attributable to the sale or closure of certain home health agencies, hospices, clinics and skilled nursing and rehabilitation units during 2004, and the impact of various hurricanes in the southeastern United States. We believe other reasons for the volume declines include a milder flu season this year compared to last year, the impact of our litigation and government investigations, physician attrition and managed care contract negotiations or terminations. Litigation and investigations We continue to defend against a significant amount of litigation and are cooperating with a number of governmental investigations; however, we also seek to resolve certain matters without litigation when appropriate and cost effective. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of these matters and Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for more detailed information. Effective Reimbursement Rates Pressure from payers also affects our business. We strive to ensure that we are appropriately compensated for the services we provide, but third party payers continue to ask us to accept lower rates of payment even in the face of rising medical costs. While government regulations determine the amounts we receive for care provided through government programs, we continue to negotiate with managed care payers for adequate and timely reimbursement for our services. We continue to strive to reduce the impact of gross charges on our contractual rates; however, certain payers are unwilling to accept such a change without a reduction in overall net reimbursement to unacceptable levels. Also, we have disputes with a number of third party payers over payment for past services. Impairments of long lived assets and goodwill As a result of our recent financial trends and the current outlook for our future operating performance, we recorded goodwill and long lived asset impairment charges of approximately $1.2 billion during the fourth quarter of 2004. 40 Significant Industry Trends Provision for doubtful accounts Like others in the health care industry, we also have experienced an adverse change in our business mix and operating results as the level of uninsured and underinsured patients continued to grow. We believe this trend is due to a combination of broad economic factors, including unemployment levels, reductions in state Medicaid budgets, increasing numbers of individuals and employers who choose not to purchase insurance, and an increased burden of co payments and deductibles to be made by patients instead of insurers. Additionally, many of these patients, who delay or do not seek routine medical care because of the costs, are being admitted through the emergency department and often require more costly care, resulting in higher billings, which are the least collectible of all accounts. Although our Compact is expected to reduce our accounts receivable and provision for doubtful accounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements, it is not expected to mitigate the net economic effects of treating such patients. In addition, we cannot predict how the Compact will affect the collectibility of those accounts. Providing quality patient care in a competitive and highly regulated environment The industry as a whole is challenged by the difficulty of providing quality patient care in a competitive and highly regulated environment. We believe our Commitment to Quality ("C2Q") initiative should help to position us competitively to meet these challenges. The initiative is designed to (1) improve patient safety and evidence based practice, (2) support physician excellence, (3) improve the practice and leadership of nursing, and (4) facilitate improved patient flow and care delivery. A year has passed since we formally launched our C2Q initiative with a series of hospital based pilot programs. At December 31, 2004, 42 of our hospitals had completed the initial eight week "transformation" phase and 10 hospitals were in process. We plan to complete the full initial implementation of our C2Q initiative by the end of 2005. At most hospitals that have completed the initial eight week transformation phase, we have seen various levels of reductions in emergency room wait times, increases in on time starts in the operating rooms, and improved bed management and care coordination. Cost Pressures A significant cost pressure facing us and the industry in general is the ongoing increase in labor costs due to a nationwide shortage of nurses and the enactment of state laws regarding nurse staffing ratios. The nursing shortage is more serious in certain specialties and in certain geographic areas than others, including several areas in which we operate hospitals, and has resulted in increased costs for nursing personnel. State mandated nurse staffing ratios adversely affect not only our labor costs, but, if we are unable to hire the necessary number of nurses to meet the required ratios, they may also cause us to limit patient admissions with a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. The vast majority of hospitals in California, including our hospitals, are not at all times meeting the state mandated nurse staffing ratios that went into effect on January 1, 2004. We have, however, gradually improved our monthly compliance and strive to make continued improvements into 2005. We cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of nursing personnel, but we expect to continue to experience significant wage and benefit pressures created by the current nursing shortage throughout the country and escalation in state mandated nurse staffing ratios. In November 2004, California delayed its next increase in the mandated ratios until at least 2008, which will abate some of the anticipated cost increases in 2005. Nevertheless, we may be required to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses. We may also be required to increase our use of temporary personnel, which is typically more expensive. Significant efforts are being invested in workforce development with local schools of nursing and in recruitment of experienced nurses. 41 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Our results of operations for the last two years reflect the challenges we have faced in restructuring our operations to focus on a smaller group of general hospitals. We believe the actions we have taken will help to return us to profitability; however, the process will take time and our turnaround timeframe is hampered by industry trends that negatively affect our revenue growth and operating expenses. Our future profitability depends significantly on volume growth, reimbursement levels and cost control. Below are some of the highlights from 2004 compared to 2003: Net inpatient revenue per patient day and per admission increased by 0.7% and 1.2%, respectively, despite the implementation, during the last half of the year, of our discounting of self pay charges under the Compact. Net outpatient visits and outpatient revenue decreased by 4.3% and 4.7%, respectively. Two material patient litigation matters (Redding and Palm Beach Gardens) were settled in the fourth quarter of 2004, resulting in charges to our operations. We refinanced debt and increased liquidity through private placements of debt, pushing our next major maturity out to December 2011, after various debt extinguishments in the first quarter of 2005. Cash used in operating activities was $82 million (prior to capital expenditures and asset sale proceeds), which included payments for restructuring, litigation and settlement costs of $280 million and a use of cash in our discontinued operations of $408 million, which included a $395 million legal settlement related to Redding Medical Center. Loss per diluted share from continuing operations increased $1.61 to $(3.85), reflecting lower revenues due to lower volumes and the closure or sale of certain home health agencies, hospices, clinics and skilled nursing facilities and rehabilitation units and establishing a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets associated with continuing operations of $480 million. Results of operations Year ended December 31, 2003 compared to the fiscal year ended May 31, 2002 Net inpatient revenue per admission was $9,401 in the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to $9,449 in the year ended May 31, 2002. This decrease is primarily due to the lower outlier revenue beginning January 1, 2003. Patient days and admissions increased by 4.2% and 5.4%, respectively, in 2003. Loss per diluted share from continuing operations was $(2.24) in the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to earnings per share of $0.66 in the year ended May 31, 2002. This decrease reflects lower outlier revenue and increased charges recorded for impairment and restructuring and litigation and investigations. We recorded a loss from early extinguishment of debt of $383 million during the year ended May 31, 2002 in connection with the repurchases of $3.7 billion of debt. Cash flow from operations decreased to $838 million in the year ended December 31, 2003 from $2.3 billion in the year ended May 31, 2002, primarily due to lower net revenues and declining cash flow performance from our hospitals included in discontinued operations. The table below shows the pretax and after tax impact on continuing operations of (1) additional provision for doubtful accounts, (2) goodwill amortization, (3) impairment of long lived assets and goodwill, (4) restructuring charges, (5) costs of litigation and investigations, (6) loss from early extinguishment of debt, (7) net gains on sales of facilities, long term investments and subsidiary 42 common stock, and (8) impairment of investment securities for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the seven months ended December 31, 2002, and the year ended May 31, 2002: Years ended December 31 Seven months ended December 31, 2002 Year ended May 31, 2002 2004 2003 (In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Additional provision for doubtful accounts $ (196 ) $ (166 ) $ $ Goodwill amortization (85 ) Impairment of long lived assets and goodwill (1,236 ) (1,278 ) (9 ) (76 ) Restructuring charges (36 ) (106 ) (13 ) (23 ) Costs of litigation and investigations (74 ) (282 ) Loss from early extinguishment of debt (13 ) (4 ) (383 ) Net gains on sales of facilities, long term investments and subsidiary common stock 10 16 Impairment of investment securities (5 ) (64 ) Pretax impact $ (1,545 ) $ (1,821 ) $ (90 ) $ (567 ) Deferred tax asset valuation allowance $ (480 ) $ $ $ Total after tax impact $ (1,731 ) $ (1,385 ) $ (56 ) $ (380 ) Diluted per share impact of above items $ (3.71 ) $ (2.97 ) $ (0.11 ) $ (0.76 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share, including above items $ (3.85 ) $ (2.24 ) $ 0.87 $ 0.66 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OVERVIEW Net cash used in operating activities was $82 million in the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $838 million in the year ended December 31, 2003. The principal reasons for the change were increased net losses, the payment of litigation settlements and the impact of changes in certain working capital components. Proceeds from the sales of facilities, long term investments and other assets during the year ended December 31, 2004 aggregated $431 million. The proceeds from the actual and anticipated divestitures of our domestic hospitals and our hospital in Barcelona, Spain in the year ended December 31, 2004 and any anticipated tax benefits associated with such divestitures should further bolster our liquidity. We expect a significant portion of the proceeds to be received in the form of tax refunds from anticipated tax losses that will result from these divestitures. In June 2004, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due in 2014 and subsequently used a portion of the $954 million of net proceeds, after deducting discounts and related expenses, to repurchase $552 million of senior notes due in 2006 through 2008. On December 31, 2004, we terminated our then existing credit agreement and replaced it with a new $250 million, one year secured letter of credit facility. The new facility provides for the issuance of up to $250 million in letters of credit and does not provide for any cash borrowings. The new facility is secured by the stock of certain of our subsidiaries and cash collateral equal to 105% of the facility amount (approximately $263 million reflected as restricted cash on the consolidated balance sheet). In January 2005, we sold $800 million of unsecured 91/4% senior notes with registration rights in a private placement. The net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes were approximately $773 million after deducting discounts and related expenses. We used the proceeds in February 2005 to redeem our remaining $400 million outstanding senior notes due in 2006 and 2007, and for general corporate purposes. From time to time, we expect to engage in various capital markets, bank credit and other financing activities depending on our needs and financing alternatives available at the time. 43 We are currently in compliance with all covenants in our letter of credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes. (See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) At December 31, 2004, we had approximately $216 million of letters of credit outstanding under the letter of credit facility, which was fully collateralized by the $263 million of restricted cash. In addition, we had $654 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents on hand. OUTLOOK We have implemented a variety of programs and initiatives, previously announced and discussed herein, in an effort to address the various challenges that we presently face. However, we do not anticipate significant improvement in operating performance to be achievable in 2005 because overcoming many of these challenges will require time. These challenges include, but are not limited to, ongoing issues resulting from our prior pricing strategy, provisions for doubtful accounts, reduced net cash flow from operations, and the need to resolve a number of government investigations and legal actions. We believe that our decision to divest all but 69 of our hospitals, the consolidation of our regions, our ongoing program to reduce costs and enhance operating performance, and our clinical quality initiatives will ultimately position us to report improved results of operations. Our hospitals that have already been sold or that are scheduled for divestiture are expected to generate negative cash flow, excluding sales proceeds, in the aggregate, during the entire sale process time period, and the expected long term benefits of our cost saving initiatives will be temporarily offset by restructuring costs, costs to implement our planned initiatives, and other costs. In the long term, however, we believe the prospects for the 69 hospitals that we will continue to operate are positive as a whole, relative to their current levels, and the restructuring and other initiatives we have undertaken will position us to improve our future financial performance. SOURCES OF REVENUE We receive revenues for patient services from a variety of sources, primarily, the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, managed care payers (including preferred provider organizations and health maintenance organizations), indemnity based health insurance companies, and self pay patients (patients who do not have health insurance and are not covered by some other form of third party arrangement). The table below shows the sources of net patient revenues for our general hospitals, expressed as percentages of net patient revenues from all sources: Years ended December 31 Seven months ended December 31, 2002 2004 2003 Increase (Decrease)(1) Year ended May 31, 2002 Medicare 26.1% 25.1% 1.0 % 28.5 % 29.6 % Medicaid 7.4% 7.7% (0.3 )% 6.4 % 6.5 % Managed care(2) 49.7% 51.0% (1.3 )% 50.0 % 47.4 % Indemnity, self pay and other 16.8% 16.2% 0.6 % 15.1 % 16.5 % (1)The change is the difference between the 2004 and 2003 amounts shown. (2)Includes Medicare Advantage and Medicaid managed care. GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS The Medicare program, the nations largest health insurance program, is administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ("CMS"). Medicare is a health insurance program primarily for individuals 65 years of age and older, certain disabled individuals, and people with end stage renal disease, and is provided without regard to 44 income or assets. Medicaid is a program that pays for medical assistance for certain individuals and families with low incomes and resources, and is jointly funded by the federal government and state governments. Medicaid is the largest source of funding for medical and health related services for individuals with limited income. These government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease government program payments in the future, as well as affect the cost of providing services to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. We are unable to predict the effect of future government health care funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid or the scope of services covered by governmental payers are reduced, if we are required to pay substantial amounts in settlement pertaining to government programs, or if we, or one or more of our subsidiaries hospitals, are excluded from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid or other government health care programs, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The government is investigating various matters, including Medicare outlier payments we received in prior years, as discussed under Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this report. Medicare Medicare offers beneficiaries different ways to obtain their medical benefits. One option, the Traditional Medicare Plan is a fee for service payment system. The other option, called Medicare Advantage (formerly Medicare + Choice), includes managed care and private fee for service plans. The major components of our net patient revenues for services provided to patients enrolled in the Traditional Medicare Plan for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and the year ended May 31, 2002 are set forth in the table below: Years ended December 31 Seven months ended December 31, 2002 Revenue Descriptions Year ended May 31, 2002 2004 2003 (In Millions) Diagnosis related group operating $ 1,407 $ 1,387 $ 727 $ 1,256 Diagnosis related group capital 149 147 85 169 Outlier 64 101 304 454 Outpatient 418 410 234 385 Disproportionate share 215 189 97 168 Direct Graduate and Indirect Medical Education 129 108 65 121 Inpatient psychiatric 76 75 44 73 Inpatient rehabilitation 123 141 83 115 Skilled nursing facilities and other 17 28 70 44 Adjustments for valuation allowance and prior year cost report settlements (33 ) (62 ) (9 ) 27 Total Medicare net patient revenues $ 2,565 $ 2,524 $ 1,700 $ 2,812 Acute Care Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System Diagnosis Related Group Payments Sections 1886(d) and 1886(g) of the Social Security Act (the "Act") set forth a system of payments for the operating and capital costs of acute care hospital stays based on a prospective payment system ("PPS"). Under the PPS, Medicare payments for hospital inpatient operating and capital related costs are made at predetermined rates for each hospital discharge. Discharges are classified according to a list of diagnosis related groups ("DRGs"), which group patients with similar clinical characteristics that are expected to require similar amounts of 45 hospital resources. CMS assigns to each DRG a relative weight that represents the average resources required to care for cases in that particular DRG, relative to the average resources used to treat cases in all DRGs. Effective October 1, 2004, the federal DRG classification system includes 543 categories. The base payment amount for operating costs is comprised of an average standardized amount that is divided into a labor related share and a nonlabor related share. Both the labor related share of the operating base payments and the capital base payments are adjusted by the geographic variations in labor and capital costs. These base payments are multiplied by the relative weight of the DRG assigned to each case. Although these payments are adjusted for area labor and capital cost differentials, the adjustments do not take into consideration an individual hospitals operating and capital costs. The DRG operating and capital base rates are updated annually, giving consideration to the increased cost of goods and services purchased by hospitals. The rate increases that became effective on October 1, 2004 and October 1, 2003 were 3.3% and 3.4%, respectively. Outlier Payments Outlier payments, which were established by Congress as part of the DRG prospective payment system, are additional payments made to hospitals for treating Medicare patients who are costlier to treat than the average patient in the same DRG. To qualify as a cost outlier, a hospitals billed (or gross) charges, adjusted to cost, must exceed the payment rate for the DRG by a fixed threshold established annually by CMS. The Medicare fiscal intermediary calculates the cost of a claim by multiplying the billed charges by the cost to charge ratio from the hospitals most recent filed cost report. If the computed cost exceeds the sum of the DRG payment plus the fixed threshold, the hospital receives 80% of the difference as an outlier payment. Under the Act, CMS must project aggregate annual outlier payments to all PPS hospitals to be not less than 5% nor more than 6% of total DRG payments ("Outlier Percentage"). The Outlier Percentage is determined by dividing total outlier payments by the sum of DRG and outlier payments. CMS annually adjusts the fixed threshold to bring expected outlier payments within the mandated limit. A change to the fixed threshold affects total outlier payments by changing (1) the number of cases that qualify for outlier payments, and (2) the dollar amount hospitals receive for those cases that still qualify. The most recent change to the cost outlier threshold that became effective on October 1, 2004 was a decrease from $31,000 to $25,800, which CMS projects will result in an Outlier Percentage of 5.1%. In August 2004, CMS estimated that the actual Outlier Percentage for Federal Fiscal Year ("FFY") 2004 will be 3.5%, 1.6 percentage points lower than the 5.1% CMS projected in setting outlier policies for FFY 2004. On January 6, 2003, in response to concerns raised by CMS regarding the level of outlier payments we were receiving, we voluntarily submitted a proposal to CMS that would reduce outlier payments to our hospitals retroactive to January 1, 2003. During 2003, CMS issued new regulations governing the calculation of outlier payments to hospitals. Those regulations, which became effective August 8, 2003, included several significant changes, many of which were contemplated in our proposal. Our proposal to CMS included a provision to reconcile the payments we would receive under our proposed interim arrangement to those we would have received if the new CMS regulations had gone into effect on January 1, 2003 up to the effective date of the final rules and regulations (the "Reconciliation Period"). Effective August 8, 2003, outlier payments to our hospitals began to be calculated by the fiscal intermediary in accordance with the final rule, which applies to all hospitals. The final determination and outcome of outlier payments under the reduction arrangement continues to be the subject of further review and approval by CMS. The final outcome could result in an additional material increase to the ultimate amount of outlier revenue we could potentially recognize for the Reconciliation Period, but this remains unknown at this point. Also, in July 2004 we were informed that CMS is reviewing the application of their rules concerning the use of the statewide ratio of cost to charges for calculating outlier payments for prior years principally related to the acquisition of our Philadelphia area hospitals in 1998. This matter is 46 unresolved at this time and we cannot predict the final outcome. An adverse final determination could result in a material decrease to outlier revenue recorded in prior years. Additionally, on December 20, 2002, CMS issued Program Memorandum A 02 126 that instructed Medicare fiscal intermediaries to identify hospitals that "appear, through data analysis, to present the greatest risk to the program." Based on the results of the data analysis, the Program Memorandum instructed the fiscal intermediaries to perform certain audit and review steps of cost reports, charges and medical records. Shortly after the Program Memorandum was issued, we were informed that the required audits and reviews of any of our hospitals would be postponed until CMS issued further guidance to our fiscal intermediary in this regard. In October 2004, we were informed that CMS had instructed our fiscal intermediary to proceed with the required audits and reviews, and we were also advised that 16 of our hospitals, including nine hospitals that are part of our divestiture plan, have been identified as meeting the criteria for audit and or review. We cannot predict what impact, if any, the results of these audits and reviews will have on Medicare revenue recorded in the current or prior years. Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System Under the outpatient prospective payment system, hospital outpatient services, except for certain services that are reimbursed on a fee schedule, are classified into groups called ambulatory payment classifications ("APC"). Services in each APC are similar clinically and in terms of the resources they require, and a payment rate is established for each APC. Depending on the services provided, hospitals may be paid for more than one APC for an encounter. CMS periodically updates the APCs and annually adjusts rates paid for each APC. Disproportionate Share Payments If a Medicare participating hospital serves a disproportionate share of low income patients, it receives a percentage add on to the DRG payment for each case. This percentage varies, depending on several factors that include the percentage of low income patients served. During 2004, 54 of our hospitals in continuing operations qualified for disproportionate share payments. Direct Graduate and Indirect Medical Education The Medicare program provides additional reimbursement to approved teaching hospitals for additional expenses incurred by such institutions. This additional reimbursement, which is subject to certain limits, including intern and resident full time equivalent ("FTE") caps established in 1996, is made in the form of Direct Graduate Medical Education ("GME") and Indirect Medical Education ("IME") payments. During 2004, 25 of our hospitals in continuing operations were affiliated with academic institutions and were eligible to receive such payments. Medicare rules permit hospitals to enter into Medicare GME Affiliation Agreements for the purpose of applying the FTE limits on an aggregate basis, and some of our hospitals have entered into such agreements. Inpatient Psychiatric Prospective Payment System Effective January 1, 2005, CMS implemented a new system of reimbursement for hospital inpatient psychiatric services to replace a cost based payment system. The inpatient psychiatric facility prospective payment system ("IPF PPS") applies to psychiatric hospitals and psychiatric units located within acute care hospitals that have been designated as exempt from the hospital inpatient prospective payment system. The IPF PPS includes several provisions to ease the transition to the new payment system. For example, CMS is phasing in the IPF PPS for existing hospitals and units over a three year period to avoid disrupting the delivery of inpatient psychiatric services. Full payment under the IPF PPS begins in the fourth year. The IPF PPS, which is based on prospectively determined per diem rates, includes a stop loss provision to protect providers against significant losses during the transition period, and an outlier policy that authorizes additional payments for extraordinarily costly cases. 47 At December 31, 2004, 21 of our hospitals in continuing operations operated Medicare certified psychiatric units. Because of the aforementioned three year transition and stop loss provisions of the IPF PPS, we do not believe the new payment system will have a material impact on our 2005 inpatient psychiatric payments. Inpatient Rehabilitation Reimbursement Medicare payments to qualifying inpatient rehabilitation facilities are generally higher than those paid under the Medicare acute hospital prospective payment system for similar services. Rehabilitation hospitals and rehabilitation units within acute care hospitals that are designated as exempt from the acute hospital PPS are paid according to the inpatient rehabilitation facility prospective payment system ("IRF PPS"). Among the criteria established by CMS that a hospital or unit must satisfy to qualify for the exemption from the acute hospital PPS is the ability to demonstrate that a significant percentage of the patients admitted to the rehabilitation hospital or unit have medical conditions requiring rehabilitation as specified in the CMS regulations. Failure to satisfy this requirement could result in the rehabilitation hospital or unit losing its exemption from the acute hospital PPS. On April 30, 2004, CMS released a final rule that revises the medical condition criteria rehabilitation hospitals and units must meet. The new regulations make it possible for facilities treating a broader range of patients who require intensive rehabilitation to qualify for payments as inpatient rehabilitation facilities. It does so by, among other things, increasing the number of qualifying medical conditions from 10 to 13. The final rule also replaced the current 75% compliance threshold with a three year transition compliance threshold of 50%, 60% and 65% for years one, two and three, respectively, that commences with cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2004. At the end of the three year transition period, the compliance threshold will be 75% if CMS does not take further regulatory action. At December 31, 2004, we operated two inpatient rehabilitation hospitals and 20 of our hospitals in continuing operations operated inpatient rehabilitation units. Based on our preliminary analysis, approximately 50% of these 20 hospital units and two inpatient rehabilitation facilities do not meet the first year 50% compliance threshold. With respect to the compliance threshold, the final rule contains a 12 month review period, which for 10 of our units and facilities commenced on September 1, 2004; the review period for the remaining 12 units and facilities commenced on February 1, 2005. The results of the 12 month review will determine the facilitys or units eligibility for payment under the IRF PPS for the first cost reporting period that begins after the end of the review period. In accordance with the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005 enacted on December 8, 2004, CMS may not use the revised requirements to change the classification of inpatient rehabilitation facilities or units that were classified as such until CMS either: (1) determines that the current regulations are not inconsistent with a soon to be released Government Accountability Office ("GAO") inpatient rehabilitation facility ("IRF") study; or (2) issues an interim final rule revising the regulations used to classify a facility as an inpatient rehabilitation facility in accordance with the provisions of the GAO IRF study. If our rehabilitation hospitals and units fail to continue to qualify as inpatient rehabilitation facilities, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Cost Reports The final determination of certain Medicare payments to our hospitals, such as IME, GME, disproportionate share, and bad debt expense, are retrospectively determined based on our hospitals cost reports. The final determination of these amounts often takes many years to resolve because of 48 audits by the program representatives, providers rights of appeal, and the application of numerous technical reimbursement provisions. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2003, we recorded estimates for contractual allowances and cost report settlements based on amounts generated from information accumulated from various accounting and information systems. Adjustments to these accruals were generally made upon the final settlement of Medicare and Medicaid cost reports. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we completed the implementation of a new system and estimation process for recording Medicare net revenue and estimated cost report settlements. This resulted in a refinement in recording the accruals to more closely reflect the expected final settlements on our cost reports. For filed cost reports, we now record the accrual based on those cost reports and subsequent activity, and record a valuation allowance against those cost reports based on historical settlement trends. The accrual for periods for which a cost report is yet to be filed is now recorded based on estimates of what we expect to report on the filed cost reports and a corresponding valuation allowance is recorded as previously described. Cost reports must be filed generally within five months after the end of the annual cost report reporting period. After the cost report is filed, the accrual and corresponding valuation allowance may need to be adjusted. Medicaid Medicaid programs are funded by both the federal government and state governments. These programs and the reimbursement methodologies are administered by the states and vary from state to state. Estimated payments under various state Medicaid programs, excluding state funded managed care programs, constituted approximately 7.4% of net patient revenues at our continuing general hospitals for the year ended December 31, 2004. These payments are typically based on fixed rates determined by the individual states. We also receive disproportionate share payments under various state Medicaid programs. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, our disproportionate share payments and other state funded subsidies were approximately $78 million and $76 million, respectively. Many states in which we operate are facing budgetary challenges that pose a threat to Medicaid funding levels to hospitals and other providers. We expect these challenges to continue; however, we cannot predict the extent of the impact of the states budget reductions on our hospitals. Also, any changes to federal Medicaid funding methodologies or levels to the states could materially adversely impact Medicaid payments to our hospitals. Legislative and Regulatory Changes The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 ("MMA") (P.L. 108 173), which was signed into law on December 18, 2003, includes several provisions affecting hospital Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. Below is a summary of the significant provisions affecting our hospitals reimbursement: Medicare Medicare inpatient prospective payment system payments were increased by 3.3% in FFY 2004, a rate equal to the full market basket index. For FFYs 2005, 2006 and 2007, hospitals will receive an inpatient update equal to the full market basket rate if they submit quality performance data to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS"). Those hospitals not submitting quality performance data for 10 quality measures will receive an increase equal to the market basket rate minus 0.4 percentage points. The update reduction is a one year adjustment and does not affect the base amount inflated from year to year. Hospitals not submitting quality data in FFY 2005 may choose to submit data in 2006 or 2007 and would then receive a full inflationary update. In order to 49 qualify for the full market basket update, hospitals must submit performance data on all patients on the 10 quality measures that are a subset of common hospital performance measures developed and aligned by CMS and the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations and endorsed by the National Quality Foundation. All of our hospitals currently participate in the National Voluntary Initiative and will, as required by CMS, report the quality data on all 10 measures to receive the full market basket update. The indirect medical education adjustment decreases from 6.0% at the end of FFY 2004 to 5.8% in FFY 2005 then to 5.55% in FFY 2006 and down to 5.35% in FFY 2007. It increases to 5.5% for FFY 2008 and beyond. Medicaid The reduction in Medicaid Disproportionate Share hospital funding (referred to as the "DSH cliff") in FFY 2004 was eliminated and the DSH allotment increased 16% over FFY 2003 levels. Subsequent years are frozen at 2004 levels until the allotment level intersects with where it would have been absent relief from the Balanced Budget Act. Increases thereafter are tied to the change in the Consumer Price Index. Annual Update to the Medicare Inpatient Prospective Payment System Under Medicare law, CMS is required annually to update certain rules governing prospective payments for acute, rehabilitation and skilled nursing facilities. The updates generally become effective October 1, the beginning of the federal fiscal year. On August 11, 2004, CMS issued the final inpatient hospital prospective payment rules for FFY 2005. The final rules implement major provisions of the MMA pertaining to hospital payments. CMS projects that the combined impact of the changes will yield an average 5.4% increase in inpatient payments for large urban (populations over one million) hospitals. Significant changes include: An inflation update for DRG operating payments equal to the hospital market basket percentage of 3.3% for hospitals reporting specified quality data. A decrease in the cost outlier threshold from $31,000 to $25,800. An increase in the number of DRGs subject to the post acute transfer policy from 29 to 30. Other changes include: Replacing the Metropolitan Statistical Areas and New England County Metropolitan Areas with the new Core Based Statistical Area definitions for purposes of determining hospital geographic classification. A 0.7% inflation update for DRG capital payments. Implementing a provision of the MMA that redistributes unused residency slots to teaching hospitals for purposes of calculating Medicare payments for direct and indirect graduate medical education. Incorporating 10% of the Occupational Mix Adjustment to the prospective payment wage index that is used to account for geographic differences in labor costs. Section 1886(d)(3)(E) of the Social Security Act requires CMS to collect data every three years on the occupational mix of employees for each acute care hospital participating in the Medicare program in order to construct an occupational mix adjustment to the wage index. Annual Update to the Medicare Outpatient Prospective Payment System On November 15, 2004, CMS issued the final changes to the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System and Calendar Year 2005 Payment Rates. CMS projects that the combined impact of the proposed changes will yield an average 3.9% increase in outpatient payments for large urban (populations over one million) hospitals. 50  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission Recommendation The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission ("MedPAC"), an independent federal body established by the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, advises the U.S. Congress on issues affecting the Medicare program, including payments to providers and health plans participating in Medicare, and analyzes access to care, quality of care and other issues affecting Medicare. On January 12, 2005, the MedPAC Commissioners approved a recommendation calling for a FFY 2006 payment update for inpatient and outpatient payments of market basket minus 0.4%. Current forecasts project that the market basket of hospital goods and services will increase 3.1% in FFY 2006. The MedPAC Commissioners also voted unanimously to recommend that Congress extend until January 1, 2007 an existing moratorium that prohibits the development of new limited service facilities, such as specialty hospitals in which the physicians have an ownership interest, and recommended a number of payment policy changes designed to address the payment inequities created by limited service facilities. On March 1, 2005, the MedPAC released its March 2005 Report to Congress: Medicare Payment Policy ("March Report"). Included in the March Report are the following recommendations: Medicare should pay more for higher quality performance from hospitals, home health agencies and physicians. For hospital inpatient and outpatient prospective payment systems, payment updates equal a market basket index minus 0.4 percent. The March Report also states that in a forthcoming Congressional report on physician owned specialty hospitals, MedPAC is recommending several refinements to the acute inpatient PPS that will improve the accuracy of payments at the case level. These include: Refining the current DRGs to more fully capture differences in severity of illness among patients; Basing the DRG relative weights on the estimated cost of providing care, rather than on charges; Basing the weights on the national average of hospitals relative costs in each DRG; and Adjusting the DRG relative weights to account for differences in the prevalence of high cost outlier cases. We cannot predict what action Congress or HHS will take on these recommendations or the impact, if any, these recommendations will have on our hospitals. 2006 Federal Budget Proposal On February 7, 2005, the White House released its FFY 2006 budget proposal to Congress. The Presidents budget proposal assumes: (1) a full market basket increase for hospital inpatient and outpatient services as specified under current law and (2) expansion of the Medicare transfer payment policy for hospital inpatients transferred to post acute settings. The budget proposal also includes (1) an endorsement of the MedPAC proposal to address the payment inequities between acute care hospitals and limited service specialty facilities in which physicians have an ownership interest and (2) a number of reform measures to the Medicaid program, which could reduce federal Medicaid spending, as well as proposed new spending initiatives designed to improve access to health insurance. We cannot predict the final outcome of the Presidents budget proposal or the effect it may have on our hospitals and facilities. 51 PRIVATE INSURANCE Managed Care We currently have thousands of managed care contracts with various health maintenance organizations ("HMOs") and Preferred Provider Organizations ("PPOs"). HMOs generally maintain a full service health care delivery network comprised of physician, hospital, pharmacy and ancillary service providers that HMO members must access through an assigned "primary care" physician. The members care is then managed by his or her primary care physician and other network providers in accordance with the HMOs quality assurance and utilization review guidelines so that appropriate health care can be efficiently delivered in the most cost effective manner. HMOs typically provide no benefit or reimbursement to their members who use non contracted health care providers. PPOs generally offer limited benefits to members who use non contracted health care providers. PPO members who use contracted health care providers receive a preferred benefit, typically in the form of lower co payments or deductibles. As employers and employees have demanded more choice, managed care plans have developed hybrid products that combine elements of both HMO and PPO plans. The amount of our net patient revenue under managed care contracts during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $4.8 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, and is anticipated to be approximately $5 billion for our continuing operations in 2005. Approximately 34% of our managed care net patient revenues during 2004 related to our top five managed care payers. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, approximately 55% and 45%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable related to continuing operations are due from managed care providers. A majority of our managed care contracts are "evergreen" contracts. Evergreen contracts extend automatically every year, but may be renegotiated or terminated by either party after giving 90 to 120 days notice. In the past several years, we have renewed or renegotiated over 90% of these agreements. National payers generate in excess of 40% of our total net managed care revenues, although these agreements are often negotiated on a local or regional basis. The remainder comes from regional or local payers. Generally, managed care plans prefer fixed, predictable rates in their contracts with health care providers. Managed care plans seeking to pay fixed and predictable rates frequently pay for hospital services on a capitation, DRG or per diem basis. Capitation is the least common of the three fixed payment methods. Under capitation, the hospital is paid a fixed amount per HMO member each month for all the hospital care of a specific group of members. Managed care plans also pay hospitals a fixed fee based upon the DRG assigned to each patient. The DRG is a health care industry code that is based upon the patients diagnosis at time of discharge. HMOs and PPOs may also reimburse hospitals on a "per day" or "per diem" basis. Under a per diem payment arrangement, the hospital is reimbursed a fixed amount for every day of hospital care delivered to a member. Per diem payment arrangements generally represent less financial risk to a hospital than capitation payment arrangements because the amount paid varies with the number of days of care provided to each patient. The financial risk of per diem agreements is further mitigated by the fact that most contracts with per diem payment arrangements also contain some form of "stop loss" provision that allows for higher reimbursement rates in difficult medical cases where the hospitals billed charges exceed a certain threshold amount. The majority of our managed care contracts are based on per diem payments with a stop loss payment component as well. With mixed success, we have been working to transition key managed care payers to contracts that use fixed, predictable market based per diems that are less dependent on stop loss payments, and that provide for market based rate escalators and terms and conditions designed to help us reduce our provision for doubtful accounts. 52 In the past, our managed care policy was developed and implemented almost exclusively at the local hospital or regional level. However, we now have a team at the corporate level to develop a strategy to support our hospitals in their managed care relationships and provide a more consistent message to payers that will focus on performance management and assessment. Our new approach to managed care is built around the development of key competencies in the following areas: (1) strategy, policy and initiatives; (2) individualized key payer strategies; (3) managed care economics; (4) regional contracting support for our hospital regions; and (5) centralized data base management, which will enhance our ability to effectively model contract terms and conditions for negotiations, and improve the efficiency and accuracy of our billing procedures. Indemnity An indemnity based agreement generally requires the insurer to reimburse an insured patient for health care expenses after those expenses have been incurred by the patient, subject to an increasing number of policy conditions and exclusions. Unlike an HMO member, a patient with indemnity insurance is free to control his or her utilization of health care and selection of health care providers. SELF PAY PATIENTS Self pay patients are patients who do not qualify for government programs payments, such as Medicare and Medicaid, or who do not have some form of private insurance, and are, therefore, responsible for their own medical bills. We have seen an increase in the number of self pay patients at our hospitals. A significant portion of this patient volume is being admitted through the emergency department and often requires high acuity treatment. High acuity treatment is more costly to provide and, therefore, results in higher billings, which are the least collectible of all accounts. We believe this trend is due to a combination of broad economic factors, including unemployment levels, reductions in state Medicaid budgets, increasing numbers of individuals and employers who choose not to purchase insurance, and an increased burden of co payments and deductibles to be made by patients instead of insurers. Self pay accounts pose significant collectibility problems. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, approximately 8% and 18%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable related to continuing operations are due from self pay patients. This reduction was primarily due to the additional provision for doubtful accounts discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The majority of our provision for doubtful accounts relates to self pay patients. We are taking multiple actions in an effort to mitigate the effect on us of the rapid growth in uninsured patients and the related economic impact. These initiatives include conducting detailed reviews of intake procedures in hospitals facing the greatest pressures, and enhancing and updating intake best practices for all of our hospitals. Hospital specific reports detailing collection rates by type of patient were developed to help the hospital management teams better identify areas of vulnerability and opportunities for improvement. Also, we have completely redesigned our self pay collection workflows, enhanced technology and improved staff training to increase collections. Over the longer term, several other initiatives we have previously announced and begun to implement should also help address this emerging challenge. For example, our Compact, which is discussed above, is enabling us to offer lower rates to uninsured patients who historically have been charged standard gross charges. We provide care without charge to certain patients and, for other charity care patients who meet certain financial or economic criteria, we discount the amount of gross charges whereby the amount billed is substantially lower than our established charges. Our policy is to not pursue collection of amounts determined to qualify as charity care; accordingly, we do not report them in net operating revenues or in provision for doubtful accounts. For the year ended December 31, 2004, gross charges of $573 million in charity care were excluded from operating revenues and provision for doubtful accounts compared to $740 million in 2003 (see Note 2C to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 53 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following two tables show a summary of our net operating revenues, operating expenses and operating income or loss from continuing operations, both in dollar amounts and as percentages of net operating revenues, for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and the year ended May 31, 2002: Years ended December 31 Seven months ended December 31, 2002 Year ended May 31, 2002 2004 2003 (In Millions) Net operating revenues: General hospitals $ 9,680 $ 9,837 $ 5,880 $ 9,392 Other operations 239 309 189 342 Net operating revenues 9,919 10,146 6,069 9,734 Operating expenses: Salaries and benefits 4,325 4,239 2,341 3,837 Supplies 1,724 1,602 870 1,371 Provision for doubtful accounts 1,205 1,135 478 710 Other operating expenses 2,231 2,108 1,211 1,909 Depreciation 368 360 206 347 Amortization 20 20 13 108 Impairment and restructuring charges 1,272 1,384 22 99 Costs of litigation and investigations 74 282 Loss from early extinguishment of debt 13 4 383 Operating income (loss) $ (1,313 ) $ (984 ) $ 924 $ 970 Years ended December 31 Seven months ended December 31, 2002 Year ended May 31, 2002 2004 2003 (% of Net Operating Revenues) Net operating revenues: General hospitals 97.6 % 97.0 % 96.9 % 96.5 % Other operations 2.4 % 3.0 % 3.1 % 3.5 % Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Salaries and benefits 43.6 % 41.8 % 38.6 % 39.4 % Supplies 17.4 % 15.8 % 14.3 % 14.1 % Provision for doubtful accounts 12.2 % 11.2 % 7.8 % 7.3 % Other operating expenses 22.5 % 20.8 % 20.0 % 19.6 % Depreciation 3.7 % 3.5 % 3.4 % 3.6 % Amortization 0.2 % 0.2 % 0.2 % 1.1 % Impairment and restructuring charges 12.8 % 13.6 % 0.4 % 1.0 % Costs of litigation and investigations 0.7 % 2.8 % Loss from early extinguishment of debt 0.1 % 0.1 % 3.9 % Operating income (loss) (13.2 )% (9.7 )% 15.2 % 10.0 % Net operating revenues of our continuing general hospitals include inpatient and outpatient revenues, as well as nonpatient revenues (primarily rental income, management fee revenue and income from services such as cafeteria, gift shops and parking) and other miscellaneous revenue. Net 54 operating revenues of other operations consist primarily of revenues from (1) physician practices, (2) rehabilitation hospitals, long term care facilities and specialty hospitals located on or near the same campuses as our general hospitals, and (3) equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates that are not directly associated with our general hospitals. Net operating revenues from our other operations were $239 million and $309 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, $189 million for the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and $342 million for the year ended May 31, 2002. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2004 is primarily attributable to Broadlane, Inc. (a 46% affiliate) no longer being consolidated, effective June 28, 2003. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2003 is due to the sale or closure of facilities other than general hospitals, including a subsidiary that offered managed care and indemnity products. As we continue to focus on our general hospital operations, the revenue attributable to our other operations may continue to decrease. The table below shows certain selected historical operating statistics for our continuing general hospitals: Years ended December 31 Seven months ended December 31, 2002 2004 2003 Increase (Decrease) Year ended May 31, 2002 Net inpatient revenues (in millions)(2) $ 6,546 $ 6,558 (0.2 )% $ 3,897 $ 6,256 Net outpatient revenues (in millions)(2) $ 2,999 $ 3,148 (4.7 )% $ 1,907 $ 3,010 Number of general hospitals (at end of period) 69 67 2 (1) 67 69 Licensed beds (at end of period) 17,902 17,771 0.7 % 17,827 18,549 Average licensed beds 17,861 17,772 0.5 % 17,713 18,541 Utilization of licensed beds(5) 54.5 % 55.5 % (1.0 )%(1) 53.6 % 51.0 % Patient days 3,565,672 3,598,270 (0.9 )% 2,029,946 3,452,334 Equivalent patient days(4) 4,971,323 4,998,583 (0.5 )% 2,844,120 4,876,670 Net inpatient revenue per patient day $ 1,836 $ 1,823 0.7 % $ 1,920 $ 1,812 Admissions(3) 687,857 697,588 (1.4 )% 391,590 662,086 Equivalent admissions(4) 967,093 977,078 (1.0 )% 554,777 945,160 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,517 $ 9,401 1.2 % $ 9,952 $ 9,449 Average length of stay (days) 5.2 5.2 (1) 5.2 5.2 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 529 $ 532 (0.6 )% $ 560 $ 513 Outpatient visits 5,664,357 5,919,981 (4.3 )% 3,403,688 5,868,306 (1)The change is the difference between 2004 and 2003 amounts shown. (2)Net inpatient revenues and net outpatient revenues are components of net operating revenues. (3)Self pay admissions represented 3.6% and 3.2% of total admissions for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (4)Equivalent admissions/patient days represents actual admissions/patient days adjusted to include outpatient and emergency room services by multiplying actual admissions/patient days by the sum of gross inpatient revenues and outpatient revenues and dividing the result by gross inpatient revenues. (5)Utilization of licensed beds represents patient days divided by average licensed beds divided by number of days in the period. The table below shows certain selected historical operating statistics for our continuing general hospitals on a same hospital basis as of December 31, 2004 (excludes one cancer treatment facility acquired in December 2003, USC Kenneth Norris Jr. Cancer Hospital, located on the campus of USC 55 University Hospital, which is a facility owned by us on land leased from a third party, and two general hospitals, Centennial Medical Center and St. Francis Hospital Bartlett, which both opened in 2004): Years ended December 31 2004 2003 Increase (Decrease) Net inpatient revenues (in millions) $ 6,491 $ 6,557 (1.0 )% Net outpatient revenues (in millions) $ 2,931 $ 3,146 (6.8 )% Number of general hospitals (at end of period) 67 67 Average licensed beds 17,679 17,767 (0.5 )% Patient days 3,541,990 3,597,643 (1.5 )% Net inpatient revenue per patient day $ 1,833 $ 1,823 0.5 % Admissions 683,474 697,488 (2.0 )% Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,497 $ 9,401 1.0 % Average length of stay (days) 5.2 5.2 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 526 $ 532 (1.1 )% Outpatient visits 5,573,644 5,917,276 (5.8 )% REVENUES During the year ended December 31, 2004, we reported net operating revenues from continuing operations of $9.9 billion compared to $10.1 billion in the year ended December 31, 2003, $6.1 billion in the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and $9.7 billion in the year ended May 31, 2002. Outpatient visits, admissions and patient days from our continuing general hospitals were lower during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 by 4.3%, 1.4% and 0.9%, respectively. We believe the following factors are contributing to the decline in our inpatient and outpatient volume levels: (a) loss of volume to competing health care providers, (b) physician recruitment, retention and attrition, (c) managed care contract negotiations or terminations, (d) the negative impact from various hurricanes in the southeastern United States, (e) a milder flu season in 2004 compared to 2003 and (f) negative publicity about us as a result of lawsuits and government investigations, which impacts our relationships with physicians and patients. Our inpatient and outpatient volume levels were also impacted by the sale or closure of certain home health agencies, hospices, clinics, and skilled nursing and rehabilitation units during 2004. Net inpatient revenue during the year ended December 31, 2004, on an overall basis, declined slightly (0.2%) compared to 2003; this change was attributable to various positive and negative factors that essentially offset each other. Net inpatient revenue per admission during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the prior year increased 1.2% and net inpatient revenue per patient day was up 0.7%. Net inpatient revenue was impacted negatively in 2004 by a decline in inpatient volume levels as described above, the phase in of the discounting components of the Compact, and a decline in managed care net revenues. Partially offsetting the negative factors above was an increase in our indemnity, self pay and other payer revenue category, which primarily consists of self pay revenue, as the mix of self pay patients grew. We believe this trend was due to a combination of broad economic factors, including unemployment levels, reductions in state Medicaid budgets, and increasing numbers of individuals and employers who choose not to purchase insurance. Self pay revenue generated higher revenue per patient day and per admission during the first half of 2004 because self pay patients were charged standard gross charges until the implementation of the discounting components of the Compact began to be phased in at many of our hospitals in the second and third quarters of 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004, there were approximately $144 million in discounts recorded on inpatient self pay accounts under the Compact. Under the Compact, the discount offered to uninsured patients is recognized as a contractual allowance, which reduces net operating revenues at the time self pay 56 accounts are recorded. As additional hospitals implement the Compact, our self pay revenue per patient day and per admission will decrease, reflecting the additional discounts recognized. Net inpatient revenues were also negatively impacted by a decline in our managed care revenue. We have seen a shift during 2004 in our managed care patient mix towards managed care plans with lower levels of reimbursement. This trend includes (1) a shift towards more national payers whose contract terms generate lower yields than national averages, and (2) a greater mix within our managed care volume of patients who have selected managed care Medicare and Medicaid insurance plans, which generate a lower yield than commercial managed care plans. It has been our objective to modify payment methodologies with key payers to reflect a more predictable yield, which is less dependent on stop loss payments, with stronger increases in base rates. Specifically, stop loss revenue has declined due to conversion of payment methodologies during contract negotiations. Managed care stop loss payments decreased to approximately $590 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 from approximately $778 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. Net outpatient revenues decreased approximately $149 million or 4.7% during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to last year. Net outpatient revenues were negatively impacted by the fact that many of our hospitals began to phase in the discounting components of the Compact during the second and third quarters of 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004, approximately $133 million in discounts were recorded on outpatient self pay accounts under the Compact. As previously mentioned, outpatient visits also decreased 4.3% compared to the prior year due primarily to the sale or closure of certain home health agencies, hospices and clinics during the current year. These businesses typically generate lower revenue per visit amounts than other outpatient services, so this decrease had a smaller proportional percentage decline on net outpatient revenue per visit than on the percentage decline in outpatient visits. SALARIES AND BENEFITS Salaries and benefits expense as a percentage of net operating revenue was 43.6% and 41.8% for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, 38.6% for the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and 39.4% for the year ended May 31, 2002. The increases in salaries and benefits expense during these years can be attributed to the wage and benefit pressures created by the current nursing shortage in many of our markets, state mandated nurse staffing ratios, standard merit increases for our employees, increased health and other benefit costs, increased labor union activity at certain of our hospitals, and our lower net operating revenues in 2004 as described above. In particular, a decline in patient volumes that reduces net operating revenues increases the percentage as a result of certain fixed staffing costs that are not reduced when volumes decrease. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant wage and benefit pressures created by the nursing shortages throughout the country. In addition, approximately 14% of our employees were represented by labor unions as of December 31, 2004. As union activity increases at our hospitals, our salaries and benefits expense is likely to increase more rapidly than our net operating revenues. In May 2003, we entered into an agreement with the Service Employees International Union and the American Federation of Federal, State, County and Municipal Employees with respect to all of our California hospitals and two hospitals in Florida. In December 2003, we entered into an agreement with the California Nurses Association with respect to all of our California hospitals. The agreements are expected to streamline the organizing and contract negotiation process, with minimal impact on and disruption to patient care, if a hospitals employees choose to organize into collective bargaining units. The agreements also provide a framework for pre negotiated salaries and benefits at these hospitals. In 2005, labor union contracts at five hospitals in Pennsylvania and California, representing 2% of our employees, will expire, but we do not expect renegotiations to have a material affect on our results of operations. 57 The nursing shortage is more serious in certain specialties and in certain geographic areas than others, including several areas in which we operate hospitals, and has resulted in increased costs for nursing personnel. State mandated nurse staffing ratios adversely affect not only our labor costs, but if we are unable to hire the necessary number of nurses to meet the required ratios, they also may cause us to limit patient admissions with a corresponding adverse effect on net operating revenues. The vast majority of hospitals in California, including our hospitals, are not at all times meeting the state mandated nurse staffing ratios that went into effect on January 1, 2004. We have, however, gradually improved our monthly compliance and strive to make continued improvements into 2005. SUPPLIES Supplies expense as a percentage of net operating revenue was 17.4% and 15.8% for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, 14.3% for the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and 14.1% for the year ended May 31, 2002. The increases in supplies expense during these years were primarily attributable to higher pharmaceutical, cardiovascular, blood and orthopedic supply costs. In addition, further contributing to these percentage increases were the fluctuations in net operating revenue during the years due to changes in Medicare outlier payments, discounting of self pay accounts under the Compact and other factors described above. In addition, the higher costs associated with new technology products are further inflating our supply costs. We strive to control supplies expense through product standardization, contract compliance, improved utilization, and operational improvements that should minimize waste. The areas of current focus are cardiac stents, orthopedic implants and high cost pharmaceuticals. We also utilize the group purchasing and supplies management services of Broadlane, Inc., a company in which we currently hold a 46% interest. Broadlane offers group purchasing procurement strategy, outsourcing, and e commerce services to the health care industry. PROVISION FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The provision for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net operating revenue was 12.2% and 11.2% for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, 7.9% for the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and 7.3% for the year ended May 31, 2002. The increases in the provision for doubtful accounts during the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31 2003 were primarily attributable to the additional provision for doubtful accounts of $196 million and $166 million recorded during the quarters ended June 30, 2004 and September 30, 2003, respectively. These additional charges resulted primarily from (1) an adverse change in our business as the number of uninsured and underinsured patients grew at an escalating rate and (2) the effect of re evaluating the historical collection patterns for self pay and managed care accounts receivable in light of the trends at that time (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The majority of our provision for doubtful accounts relates to self pay patients. Collection of accounts receivable has been a key area of focus, particularly over the past two years, as we have experienced adverse changes in our business mix as the number of uninsured and underinsured patients have continued to grow. Potential reductions in state Medicaid budgets may result in a continued increase in uninsured patients in 2005. One key step we have taken to address this industry wide issue is the implementation of the Compact. By offering managed care style discounts, we are charging the uninsured more affordable rates, whereby, they may be better able to meet their financial obligations to pay for services we provide them. The discounts recorded as contractual allowances during 2004 were approximately $277 million. However, we do not expect the Compact to have a material effect on the net economic impact of treating self pay patients. Prior to implementing the Compact, a large portion of these discounts would have been recorded as provision for doubtful accounts. Our current estimated 58 collection rate on self pay accounts is approximately 16%, including collections from point of service through collections by our in house collection agency or external collection vendors. Payment pressure from managed care payers has also affected our provision for doubtful accounts. We continue to experience ongoing managed care payment delays and disputes; however, we are working with these payers to ensure their adequate and timely reimbursement for our services. Our current estimated collection rate on managed care accounts is approximately 95%, which includes collections from point of service through collections by our in house collection agency or external collection vendors. As of December 31, 2004, we had a cumulative total of account assignments dating back at least three years or older of approximately $4.1 billion related to our continuing operations being pursued by our in house and outside collection agencies or vendors. These accounts have already been written off and are not included in our receivables or in the allowance for doubtful accounts; however, an estimate of future recoveries from all the accounts in collection is determined based on our historical experience and recorded in accounts receivable. Accounts receivable days outstanding ("AR Days") from continuing operations decreased to 57 days at December 31, 2004, compared to 67 days at December 31, 2003, 63 days at December 31, 2002 and 61 days at May 31, 2002. The fluctuations in AR Days are attributable to (1) reductions in Medicare outlier revenue, (2) additional provision for doubtful accounts, (3) results of our in house and outside collection agencies and (4) lower overall net revenue due to the implementation of the Compact. AR Days at December 31, 2004 is within our target of below 60 days. This amount is calculated as our accounts receivable from continuing operations on that date divided by our revenue from continuing operations for the quarter ended on that date divided by the number of days in the quarter. We manage the provision for doubtful accounts using hospital specific goals and benchmarks such as (1) total cash collections, (2) point of service cash collections and (3) accounts receivable aging. The following tables present the approximate aging by payer of our continuing operations net accounts receivable of $1,605 million and $1,883 million, excluding cost report settlements and valuation allowances of $118 million and $101 million, at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively: December 31, 2004 Medicare Medicaid Managed Care Indemnity, Self Pay and Other Total 0 60 days 93 % 64 % 74 % 47 % 72 % 61 120 days 6 % 23 % 15 % 18 % 15 % 121 180 days 1 % 13 % 7 % 9 % 7 % Over 180 days 0 % 0 % 4 % 26 % 6 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % December 31, 2003 Medicare Medicaid Managed Care Indemnity, Self Pay and Other Total 0 60 days 92 % 71 % 74 % 45 % 67 % 61 120 days 6 % 22 % 17 % 27 % 19 % 121 180 days 2 % 7 % 6 % 6 % 6 % Over 180 days 0 % 0 % 3 % 22 % 8 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 59 We continue to focus on initiatives to improve cash flow, which include improving the process for collecting receivables, pursuing timely payments from all payers, and standardizing and improving contract terms, billing systems and the patient registration process. We continue to review, and adjust as necessary, our methodology for evaluating the collectibility of our accounts receivable, and we may incur additional future charges resulting from the above described trends. We are taking numerous actions to specifically address the rapid growth in uninsured patients. These initiatives include conducting detailed reviews of intake procedures in hospitals facing these pressures, and introducing intake best practices to all of our hospitals. We have redesigned our self pay collection workflows, enhanced technology and improved staff training to increase collections. Our implementation of our previously announced three year plan to consolidate billing and collection activities, which was modified in February 2004 to exclude certain hospitals that already have equally effective hospital based business office operations, is substantially complete and includes approximately 78% of our continuing general hospitals. We are beginning to experience improved receivable performance from this initiative and anticipate continued improvement with enhanced efficiencies. We also continue to benchmark the performance of the regional business offices with the performance of the hospital based business offices to determine the need for additional consolidation of collection activities. In addition, our previously announced initiative to standardize patient accounting systems is substantially complete and should allow us to obtain better operational data at a consolidated level, and provide us with tools to more quickly diagnose and address business mix shifts. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Other operating expenses as a percentage of net operating revenue was 22.5% and 20.8% for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, 20.0% for the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and 19.6% for the year ended May 31, 2002. The increases in other operating expenses during these years were primarily attributable to higher malpractice expense and fixed costs that do not fluctuate with the changes in net operating revenues. Malpractice expense was $272 million and $239 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The increase in 2004 reflects costs associated with adverse loss development and a change in the maturity composite rate from the Federal Reserve 10 year composite rate to the Federal Reserve seven year composite rate that resulted from a change in our claims payment patterns. Malpractice expense for the seven months ended December 31, 2002 was $190 million and included charges of (1) approximately $33 million as a result of lowering the discount rate used from 7.5% to 4.61% at December 31, 2002, (2) approximately $27 million due to an increase in reserves at one of our insurance subsidiaries, Hospital Underwriting Group, as a result of an increase in the average cost of claims being paid by this subsidiary, and (3) approximately $80 million to increase our self retention reserves, also due to a significant increase in the average cost of claim settlements and awards. The 7.5% rate was based on our average cost of borrowings. The 4.61% rate was based on a risk free, Federal Reserve 10 year maturity composite rate for a period that approximated our estimated claims payout period at that time. Malpractice expense for the year ended May 31, 2002 was $164 million. We continue to experience unfavorable pricing and availability trends in the professional and general liability insurance markets and increases in the size of claim settlements and awards in this area. We expect this trend to continue unless pricing for insurance becomes favorable, settlement amounts decrease, and meaningful tort reform legislation is enacted. Physicians, including those who practice at some of our hospitals, face significant and sometimes prohibitive increases in malpractice insurance premiums and limitations on availability, which could and often does cause those physicians to limit their practices. That, in turn, could and does result in lower admissions to our hospitals. 60 Also included in other operating expenses in the year ended December 31, 2004 is $25 million of net gains on sales of equipment and other assets, including a net gain of approximately $18 million from the sale of certain home health agencies and hospices. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS AND GOODWILL AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES During the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, we recorded impairment and restructuring charges of $1.272 billion and $1.384 billion, respectively. We recorded $22 million in the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and $99 million in the year ended May 31, 2002. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail of these charges and related liabilities. The significant charges in 2004 and 2003 are primarily due to the impairment of goodwill in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"). During 2003, we recorded a charge of $1.122 billion, primarily related to our California region and our then Central Northeast region, and in the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded a charge of $1.113 billion related to our Texas Gulf Coast and Florida Alabama regions. The goodwill impairment charge in 2004 is the result of a lower estimated fair value due to adverse industry and company specific challenges that continue to affect our operating results, such as reduced patient volumes, high levels of bad debt expense related to uninsured and underinsured patients, the shift of our managed care business to contracts that provide lower reimbursement, and continued pressure on labor and supply costs. The goodwill impairment charges in 2003 were the result of a comprehensive review of the near term and long term prospects for each of our hospitals and an impairment test performed in connection with the restructuring of our operating divisions and regions in 2003, along with a realignment of our executive team and other factors, that changed our goodwill "reporting units," as defined under SFAS 142. We estimated the fair value of the goodwill based on independent appraisals, established market values of comparable assets, or internal calculations of estimated future net cash flows. Based on future financial trends and the possible impact of negative trends on our future outlook, further impairments of long lived assets and goodwill may occur, and we will incur additional restructuring charges. COSTS OF LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATIONS Costs of litigation and investigations in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2004 were $74 million and consisted primarily of (1) a $30 million accrual of a minimum liability to address the potential resolution of a number of the civil lawsuits arising out of pricing strategies at facilities owned or formerly owned by our subsidiaries and (2) costs to defend ourselves in various lawsuits, in particular the Alvarado trial (see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Costs of litigation and investigations for the year ended December 31, 2003 were $282 million and consisted primarily of: (1)A $152 million charge recorded for an award of contract damages by a California appellate court to a former executive in connection with our alleged failure to provide certain incentive stock awards to the executive. This charge includes post judgment interest through December 31, 2003 and attorneys fees and costs. On February 18, 2004, the California Supreme Court declined to review the appellate courts decision. We paid $163.3 million to the former executive on March 1, 2004 in satisfaction of the final judgment. (2)$54 million paid for the settlement of the Redding Medical Center matter as discussed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. (3)An aggregate of $30.2 million, which was accrued as of December 31, 2003 and paid during 2004, for the settlement of the United States Ex Rel. Barbera v. Amisub (North Ridge Hospital), Inc. lawsuit and the settlement of the transfer discharge investigation. The remaining costs in 2003 were for other miscellaneous settlements and costs to defend ourselves. 61  LOSS FROM EARLY EXTINGUISHMENT OF DEBT In connection with the repurchase of senior notes and the termination of our credit agreement in 2004, we recorded $13 million in losses from early extinguishment of debt in the year ended December 31, 2004. These losses primarily reflect the write off of debt issuance costs, discounts and unamortized hedging losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss. In connection with the redemption of senior notes in February 2005, we expect to record a loss of approximately $23 million. OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) Operating expenses were 113.2% of net operating revenues in the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to 109.7% in 2003. Lower net operating revenues, higher salaries and benefits expense, supply costs, provision for doubtful accounts and malpractice expense were only partially offset by lower costs of litigation and investigations and impairment and restructuring charges. INTEREST EXPENSE The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 was largely attributable to the issuance of $1 billion of privately placed senior notes in June 2004 and the partial use of the proceeds to retire lower rate debt with maturity dates in the next several years. In January 2005, we issued an additional $800 million of senior notes through a private placement with public registration rights (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), which will result in additional interest expense in 2005. NET GAINS ON SALES OF FACILITIES, LONG TERM INVESTMENTS AND SUBSIDIARY COMMON STOCK The $10 million of net gains in the year ended December 31, 2004 related primarily to (1) our sale of investments in various health care ventures and (2) reduction of reserves associated with hospitals sold in prior years. The $16 million of net gains in the year ended December 31, 2003 related primarily to (1) our sale of a portion of our common stock in Broadlane, Inc. and (2) collection of certain notes receivable associated with hospitals sold in prior years that had been previously reserved for in earlier periods. INCOME TAX BENEFIT (EXPENSE) Income tax expense from continuing operations was $184 million on a pre tax loss of $1.613 billion in the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to an income tax benefit from continuing operations of $228 million on a pre tax loss of $1.272 billion in the year ended December 31, 2003. Income tax expense in the year ended December 31, 2004 included a portion of the impact of establishing a $744 million valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets during the fourth quarter of 2004. This valuation allowance was recorded in the following manner: (1) $480 million was reflected in income tax expense in continuing operations, (2) $144 million was reflected in income tax expense in discontinued operations and (3) $120 million was recorded as an adjustment against additional paid in capital, rather than income tax expense, due to the fact that excess tax deductions remained from prior stock option awards accounted for in accordance with the fair value based method under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"). We established the valuation allowance as a result of assessing the realization of our deferred tax assets based on the fact that we incurred significant impairment charges, legal settlements and continued adverse results of operations in the fourth quarter of 2004, combined with having a cumulative loss for the three year period ended December 31, 2004, which is considered "negative evidence" under SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS 109"). We concluded that, as a 62 result of this negative evidence, SFAS 109 precludes us from relying upon our forecasts of future income for the purpose of supporting the realization of the deferred tax assets under the more likely than not standard. (See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) PRO FORMA INFORMATION In light of the changes CMS made to the Medicare outlier payment calculations effective January 1, 2003 (discussed in Note 2C to the Consolidated Financial Statements), the additional charges to provision for doubtful accounts recorded in the quarters ended September 30, 2003 and June 30, 2004 (discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and the phase in of the discounts for uninsured patients under the Compact beginning in the second quarter of 2004, we are supplementing certain historical information with information presented on a pro forma basis as if we had received no Medicare outlier revenues, recorded no additional provisions for doubtful accounts and had not implemented the discounts under the Compact during the periods indicated. This information includes numerical measures of our historical performance that have the effect of depicting such measures of financial performance differently from that presented in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and that are defined under Securities and Exchange Commission rules as "non GAAP financial measures." We believe that the information presented on this pro forma basis is important to our shareholders in order to show the effect that these items had on elements of our historical results of operations and provide important insight into our operations in terms of other underlying business trends, without necessarily estimating or suggesting their effect on future results of operations. This supplemental information has inherent limitations because Medicare outlier revenue in periods prior to January 1, 2003 are not indicative of future periods and such revenue in periods from January 1, 2003 forward may not be indicative of future periods. We compensate for these inherent limitations by also utilizing comparable GAAP measures. In spite of the limitations, we find the supplemental information useful to the extent it better enables us and our investors to evaluate pricing trends and we believe the consistent use of this supplemental information provides us and our investors with reliable period to period comparisons. Costs in our business are largely influenced by volumes and thus are generally analyzed as a percent of net operating revenues, so we provide this additional analytical information to better enable investors to measure expense categories between periods. Based on requests by certain shareholders, we believe that our investors find these non GAAP measures useful as well. Investors are encouraged, however, to use GAAP measures when evaluating our financial performance. The tables below illustrate actual operating expenses as a percent of net operating revenues, net inpatient revenue per admission and net outpatient revenue per visit for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the year ended May 31, 2002 as if we had received no outlier revenue, recorded no additional provisions for doubtful accounts and had not implemented the discounts under the Compact during the periods indicated. The tables also illustrate same hospital (excludes one cancer treatment facility acquired in December 2003, USC Kenneth Norris Jr. Cancer Hospital, located on the campus of USC University Hospital, and two general hospitals, Centennial Medical Center and St. Francis Hospital Bartlett, which both opened in 2004) net inpatient revenue per admission and same hospital net outpatient revenue per visit adjusted as described above for the years ended December 31, 2004 63 and 2003. The tables include reconciliations of GAAP measures to non GAAP measures. Investors are encouraged, however, to use GAAP measures when evaluating our financial performance. Year ended December 31, 2004 GAAP Amounts Compact and Bad Debt Adjustments Medicare Outlier Revenue Non GAAP Amounts (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net operating revenues $ 9,919 $ 277 $ (64 ) $ 10,132 Operating expenses: Salaries and benefits 4,325 4,325 Supplies 1,724 1,724 Provision for doubtful accounts 1,205 59 (1) 1,264 Other operating expenses 2,231 2,231 As a percent of net operating revenues Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Salaries and benefits 43.6 % 42.7 % Supplies 17.4 % 17.0 % Provision for doubtful accounts 12.2 % 12.5 % Other operating expenses 22.5 % 22.0 % Continuing general hospitals Net inpatient revenue $ 6,546 $ 144 $ (64 ) $ 6,626 Net outpatient revenue $ 2,999 $ 133 $ $ 3,132 Admissions 687,857 687,857 Outpatient visits 5,664,357 5,664,357 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,517 $ 209 $ (93 ) $ 9,633 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 529 $ 24 $ $ 553 Same hospital Net inpatient revenue $ 6,491 $ 144 $ (63 ) $ 6,572 Net outpatient revenue $ 2,931 $ 132 $ $ 3,063 Admissions 683,474 683,474 Outpatient visits 5,573,644 5,573,644 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,497 $ 211 $ (92 ) $ 9,616 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 526 $ 24 $ $ 550 (1)Represents a $255 million impact due to the Compact, offset by $196 million of additional provisions for doubtful accounts. 64 Year ended December 31, 2003 GAAP Amounts Compact and Bad Debt Adjustments Medicare Outlier Revenue Non GAAP Amounts (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net operating revenues $ 10,146 $ $ (101 ) $ 10,045 Operating expenses: Salaries and benefits 4,239 4,239 Supplies 1,602 1,602 Provision for doubtful accounts 1,135 (166 ) 969 Other operating expenses 2,108 2,108 As a percent of net operating revenues Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Salaries and benefits 41.8 % 42.2 % Supplies 15.8 % 15.9 % Provision for doubtful accounts 11.2 % 9.6 % Other operating expenses 20.8 % 21.0 % Continuing general hospitals Net inpatient revenue $ 6,558 $ $ (101 ) $ 6,457 Net outpatient revenue $ 3,148 $ $ $ 3,148 Admissions 697,588 697,588 Outpatient visits 5,919,981 5,919,981 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,401 $ $ (145 ) $ 9,256 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 532 $ $ $ 532 Same hospital Net inpatient revenue $ 6,557 $ $ (101 ) $ 6,456 Net outpatient revenue $ 3,146 $ $ $ 3,146 Admissions 697,488 697,488 Outpatient visits 5,917,276 5,917,276 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,401 $ $ (145 ) $ 9,256 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 532 $ $ $ 532 65 Year ended May 31, 2002 GAAP Amounts Compact and Bad Debt Adjustments Medicare Outlier Revenue Non GAAP Amounts (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net operating revenues $ 9,734 $ $ (454 ) $ 9,280 Operating expenses: Salaries and benefits 3,837 3,837 Supplies 1,371 1,371 Provision for doubtful accounts 710 710 Other operating expenses 1,909 1,909 As a percent of net operating revenues Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Salaries and benefits 39.4 % 41.3 % Supplies 14.1 % 14.8 % Provision for doubtful accounts 7.3 % 7.7 % Other operating expenses 19.6 % 20.6 % Continuing general hospitals Net inpatient revenue $ 6,256 $ $ (454 ) $ 5,802 Net outpatient revenue $ 3,010 $ $ $ 3,010 Admissions 662,086 662,086 Outpatient visits 5,868,306 5,868,306 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,449 $ $ (686 ) $ 8,763 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 513 $ $ $ 513 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES CASH REQUIREMENTS Our obligations to make future cash payments under contracts, such as debt and lease agreements, and under contingent commitments, such as debt guarantees and standby letters of credit, are summarized in the table below, all as of December 31, 2004: Years ending December 31 Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Later Years (In Millions) Long term debt $ 4,506 $ 38 $ 217 $ 187 $ 2 $ $ 4,062 Capital lease obligations 31 3 2 20 1 5 Long term non cancelable operating leases 736 162 151 135 113 60 115 Standby letters of credit and guarantees 262 226 10 7 7 5 7 Purchase orders 395 395 Total $ 5,930 $ 824 $ 380 $ 349 $ 122 $ 66 $ 4,189 The standby letters of credit are required principally by our insurers and various states to collateralize our workers compensation programs pursuant to statutory requirements and as security under a selected number of programs to collateralize the deductible and self insured retentions under our professional and general liability insurance programs. The amount of collateral required is principally dependent upon the level of claims activity and our creditworthiness. The insurers require the collateral in case we are unable to meet our obligations to claimants within the deductible or self insured retention layers. The standby letters of credit are issued under our letter of credit facility 66 and are fully collateralized by the $263 million of restricted cash on the consolidated balance sheet (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Our capital expenditures primarily relate to the design and construction of new buildings, expansion and renovation of existing facilities, including amounts to comply with applicable laws and regulations, equipment and systems additions and replacements, introduction of new medical technologies, construction of new hospitals and various other capital improvements. Capital expenditures were $558 million and $833 million in the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, $490 million in the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and $889 million in the year ended May 31, 2002. Included in capital expenditures are costs related to the construction of two new hospitals that opened in 2004, in the amount of $84 million and $80 million in the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, $11 million in the seven months ended December 31, 2002, and $8 million in the year ended May 31, 2002. We anticipate that our capital expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2005 will be approximately $500 million. These capital expenditures include approximately $7 million in 2005 of the estimated $300 million required to meet the California seismic requirements by 2012 for the remaining California facilities after all planned divestitures. Interest payments, net of capitalized interest, were $260 million and $235 million in the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, $175 million in the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and $389 million in the year ended May 31, 2002. We anticipate that our interest payments for the year ending December 31, 2005 will be approximately $400 million. Income tax payments, net of refunds received, were $46 million and $351 million in the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, $307 million in the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and $268 million in the year ended May 31, 2002. We anticipate receiving income tax refunds during the year ending December 31, 2005 of approximately $530 million. We are currently involved in significant investigations and legal proceedings. (See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for a description of these matters.) Although we cannot presently determine the timing or the amounts of any potential liabilities resulting from the ultimate resolutions of these investigations and lawsuits, we will incur significant costs in defending them and their outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. SOURCES AND USES OF CASH Our liquidity for the year ended December 31, 2004 was derived primarily from proceeds from the sale of new senior notes and sales of facilities. For the year ended December 31, 2003, our liquidity was derived primarily from net cash provided by operating activities, the sales of new senior notes and the sales of facilities. Cash flow from operations and the sale of new senior notes were the primary contributors to our liquidity in the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and the year ended May 31, 2002. During the year ended December 31, 2004, we had a use of cash generated by our operating activities of $82 million. The primary contributors were payments made for unfavorable litigation settlements and payments made against reserves for restructuring charges, which approximated $675 million in total. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2003, seven months ended December 31, 2002 and the year ended May 31, 2002 was $838 million, $1.1 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively. The consecutive declines are due to reduced Medicare outlier revenue, reduced reimbursements by managed care payers, higher operating costs and overall deteriorating performance from our hospitals, including those hospitals classified in discontinued operations. Our primary source of operating cash is the collection of accounts receivable. As we 67 experience changes in our business mix and as admissions of uninsured patients grow, our operating cash flow is negatively impacted due to lower levels of cash collections and higher levels of bad debt. Cash proceeds from the sale of new senior notes were $954 million in the year ended December 31, 2004, $979 million in the year ended December 31, 2003, $395 million in the seven months ended December 31, 2002 and $2.5 billion in the year ended May 31, 2002. We used the proceeds to redeem other long term debt, to retire existing bank loans under our credit agreements at the time and for general corporate purposes. Proceeds from the sales of facilities, long term investments and other assets during 2004 and 2003 aggregated $431 million and $730 million, respectively. Approximately $96 million of the proceeds received in 2003 were invested in an escrow account dedicated to funding costs associated with completing construction at certain of our hospitals. During 2003 and 2004, $8 million and $88 million, respectively, were released to fund construction costs. As of December 31, 2004, there was no balance remaining in the escrow account. The liquidation of working capital from hospital sales in 2004, anticipated sales proceeds and the liquidation of working capital from hospital sales anticipated to be completed during 2005 and any tax benefit associated with such sales should further bolster our liquidity, although we do not expect to realize in cash the portion of proceeds anticipated from such tax benefits, related to the hospitals sold during 2004, until April 2005. Between July 1, 2001 and June 30, 2003, we purchased 48,734,599 shares of our common stock for $1.4 billion, of which $208 million was spent in the year ended December 31, 2003. The repurchases were authorized by our board of directors and are held as treasury stock. We have not made any repurchases since June 30, 2003 and do not intend to repurchase any shares in 2005. DEBT INSTRUMENTS, GUARANTEES AND RELATED COVENANTS In June 2004, we issued $1 billion of 9.875% senior notes due in 2014. The notes are unsecured. A portion of the proceeds were used to repurchase $552 million of senior notes due in 2006 and 2007. In January 2005, we sold $800 million of 9.25% senior notes in a private placement, and, in February 2005, we redeemed our remaining outstanding senior notes of $400 million due in 2006 and 2007. As a result, we have no significant long term debt due until December 2011. The maturities of 90% of our long term debt now fall between December 2011 and January 2015. An additional $450 million is not due until 2031. On December 31, 2004, we terminated our five year revolving credit agreement and replaced it with a one year letter of credit facility. The new facility provides for the issuance of up to $250 million in letters of credit and does not provide for any cash borrowings. The letter of credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants that, among other requirements, limit (1) liens, (2) consolidations, mergers or the sale of all or substantially all assets, (3) subsidiary debt and (4) prepayment of debt. The new facility is secured by the stock of certain of our subsidiaries and cash collateral equal to 105% of the facility (approximately $263 million reflected as restricted cash on the consolidated balance sheet). From time to time we expect to engage in various capital markets, bank credit and other financing activities depending on our needs and financing alternatives available at that time. (See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) We are currently in compliance with all covenants under our letter of credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes. (See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) At December 31, 2004, we had approximately $216 million of letters of credit outstanding under the letter of credit facility, which was fully collateralized by the $263 million of restricted cash. We had approximately $654 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 2004. 68 LIQUIDITY We believe that existing unrestricted cash and cash equivalents on hand, future cash provided by operating activities, including estimated income tax refunds of $530 million expected to be received during 2005, the $773 million of net proceeds from the January 2005 debt issuance described above, the sales of facilities and, depending on capital market conditions, other borrowings should be adequate to meet known debt service requirements. It should also be adequate to finance planned capital expenditures and other presently known operating needs. However, our cash needs could be materially affected by the various uncertainties discussed in this and other sections and the impact of potential judgments and settlements addressed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, as well as changes in our results of operations. We are aggressively identifying and implementing further actions to reduce costs and enhance our operating performance, including cash flow. Among the areas being addressed are managed care payer contracting, improved procurement efficiencies, cost standardization, bad debt expense reduction initiatives and reducing certain non patient care hospital costs. We believe our restructuring plan and the various initiatives we have undertaken will ultimately position us to report improved operating performance, although that performance may remain somewhat below our hospital management peers because of geographic and other differences in hospital portfolios. We believe it is important for a reader to understand that (1) if our results of operations continue to deteriorate, and or (2) if claims, lawsuits, settlements or investigations are resolved in a materially adverse manner, there could be substantial doubt about our liquidity. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources, except for $262 million of standby letters of credit and guarantees as of December 31, 2004 (shown in the cash requirements table above). The letters of credit are collateralized by $263 million of restricted cash. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The following summarizes noteworthy recently issued accounting standards: SFAS No. 153, "Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29," was issued in December 2004. This statement amends and clarifies financial accounting for nonmonetary exchanges. The amendments eliminate certain previous exceptions to the use of fair value and are intended to improve the comparability of cross border financial reporting by narrowing the differences with existing International Accounting Standards Board standards. This statement is effective for the third quarter of 2005 and is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. SFAS No. 152, "Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 66 and 67," was issued in December 2004. This statement amends FASB Statements No. 66 and 67 to reference guidance provided in AICPA Statement of Position (SOP) 04 2, "Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions." This statement is effective for our 2006 calendar year and is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. SFAS No. 123R (Revised 2004), "Share Based Payment," was issued in December 2004, which replaces SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25. SFAS 123R requires the measurement of all employee share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using 69 a fair value based method. The accounting provisions of SFAS 123R are effective for interim or annual reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2005. We will be required to adopt SFAS 123R in the third quarter of 2005. Since we previously adopted SFAS 123, we do not anticipate the cumulative effect of the adoption of SFAS 123R to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Under SFAS 123R, the previously estimated fair value of non vested stock option grants outstanding, when we adopt SFAS 123R in the third quarter of 2005, should not be adjusted for differences between the requirements of SFAS 123R and SFAS 123, except for any impact of incorporating expected forfeitures before vesting. This method of adopting SFAS 123R is referred to as the modified prospective application method. We are still evaluating the fair value valuation techniques allowed under SFAS 123R to determine the model that we will use to estimate the fair value of stock options granted after the adoption of this standard. Under SFAS 123R, a closed form model (e.g., Black Scholes) and a lattice model are acceptable valuation techniques. A lattice model can be designed to accommodate estimates of option exercise patterns and post vesting employment termination during the options contractual term, and thereby can more fully reflect the effect of those factors than an estimate developed using a closed form model and a single weighted average life of the options. If we determine that utilizing a lattice model valuation technique is more appropriate when we adopt SFAS 123R, the fair value estimates of future stock option grants under a lattice model may differ from fair value estimates if the Black Scholes model was used. SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs, an Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4," was issued in November 2004. This statement amends and clarifies financial accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). These changes are intended to improve the comparability of cross border financial reporting by narrowing the differences with existing International Accounting Standards Board standards. This statement is effective for inventory costs incurred during our 2006 calendar year and is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. FASB Interpretation No. 46 R ("FIN 46 R"), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities an interpretation of ARB 51 (revised December 2003)," was issued to amended certain provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 46, which provides guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities, and delayed implementation for entities that were not considered special purpose entities until the first quarter of 2004. Our adoption of FIN 46 R did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. FASB Staff Position No. 106 2, "Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003" ("FSP 106 2"), was issued in response to a new law regarding prescription drug benefits under Medicare, as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans. Our adoption of FSP 106 2 did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we must use estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates we use. In general, we base the estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, given the particular circumstances in which we operate. Actual results may vary from those estimates. 70 We consider our critical accounting estimates to be those that (1) involve significant judgments and uncertainties, (2) require estimates that are more difficult for management to determine, and (3) may produce materially different outcomes under different conditions or when using different assumptions. Our critical accounting estimates cover the following areas: Recognition of net operating revenues, including contractual allowances. Provisions for doubtful accounts. Accruals for general and professional liability risks. Impairment of long lived assets and goodwill. Accounting for income taxes. Accounting for stock based compensation. REVENUE RECOGNITION We recognize net operating revenues in the period in which services are performed. Net operating revenues consist primarily of net patient service revenues that are recorded based on established billing rates (i.e., gross charges), less estimated discounts for contractual allowances (principally for patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and managed care and other health plans and uninsured patients under the Compact). Revenues under the traditional fee for service Medicare and Medicaid programs are based primarily on prospective payment systems. Discounts for retrospectively cost based revenues, which were more prevalent in earlier periods, and certain other payments, such as IME, GME, disproportionate share and bad debt expense, which are based on our hospitals cost reports, are estimated using historical trends and current factors. Cost report settlements under these programs are subject to audit by Medicare and Medicaid auditors and administrative and judicial review, which can take several years until final settlement of such matters are determined and completely resolved. Because the laws, regulations, instructions and rule interpretations governing Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement are complex and change frequently, the estimates recorded by us could change by material amounts. Prior to 2003, we recorded estimates for contractual allowances and cost report settlements for Medicare and Medicaid based on amounts generated from information accumulated from various accounting and information systems. Adjustments to these accruals were generally made upon the final settlement of Medicare and Medicaid cost reports. In 2003, we completed the implementation of a new system and estimation process for recording Medicare net revenue and estimated cost report settlements. This resulted in a refinement in recording the accruals to more closely reflect the expected final settlements on our cost reports. For filed cost reports, we now record the accrual based on those cost reports and subsequent activity, and record a valuation allowance against those cost reports based on historical settlement trends. The accrual for cost reports not yet filed is now recorded based on estimates of what we expected to report on the filed cost reports and a corresponding valuation allowance was recorded as previously described. Cost reports must be filed generally within the five months after the end of the annual cost report reporting period. After the cost report is filed, the accrual and corresponding valuation allowance may need to be adjusted. Estimated cost report settlements and valuation allowances are deducted from accounts receivable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Revenues under managed care plans are based primarily on payment terms involving predetermined rates per diagnosis, per diem rates, discounted fee for service rates and or other similar contractual arrangements. These revenues are also subject to review and possible audit by the payers. The payers are billed for patient services on an individual patient basis. An individual patients bill is 71 subject to adjustment on a patient by patient basis in the ordinary course of business by the payers following their review and adjudication of each particular bill. We estimate the discounts for contractual allowances at the individual hospital level utilizing billing data on an individual patient basis. At the end of each month, on an individual hospital basis, we attempt to estimate our expected reimbursement for patients of managed care plans based on the applicable contract terms. These estimates are continuously reviewed for accuracy by taking into consideration known contract terms as well as payment history. Although we do not separately accumulate and disclose the aggregate amount of adjustments to the estimated reimbursements for every patient bill, we believe our estimation and review process enables us to identify instances on a timely basis where such estimates need to be revised. We do not believe there were any adjustments to estimates of individual patient bills that were material to our revenues. In addition, on a corporate wide basis, we do not record any general provision for adjustments to estimated contractual allowances for managed care plans. Revenues related to self pay patients may qualify for a discount under the Compact, whereby the gross charges based on established billing rates would be reduced by an estimated discount for contractual allowance. We believe that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from final determination of amounts earned under all the above arrangements. We know of no material claims, disputes or unsettled matters with any payers that would affect our revenues for which we have not adequately provided for in our consolidated financial statements. PROVISIONS FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS Our policy is to attempt to collect amounts due from patients, including co payments and deductibles due from patients with insurance, at the time of service while complying with all federal and state laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act ("EMTALA"). Generally, as required by EMTALA, patients may not be denied emergency treatment due to inability to pay. Therefore, until the legally required medical screening examination is complete and stabilization of the patient has begun, services are performed prior to the verification of the patients insurance, if any. In non emergency circumstances or for elective procedures and services, it is our policy, when appropriate, to verify insurance prior to a patient being treated. We provide for an allowance against accounts receivable that could become uncollectible by establishing an allowance to reduce the carrying value of such receivables to their estimated net realizable value. We estimate this allowance based on the aging of certain of our accounts receivables by hospital, our historical collection experience by hospital and for each type of payer, and other relevant factors. Our practice is to write down self pay accounts receivable, including accounts related to the co payments and deductibles due from patients with insurance, to their estimated net realizable value at the time of billing. Generally, uncollected balances are assigned to our in house collection agency between 90 to 120 days, once patient responsibility has been identified. When accounts are assigned for collections by the hospital, the accounts are completely written off through provision for doubtful accounts, and an estimated future recovery amount is calculated and recorded as a receivable on the hospitals books at the same time. The account balance is adjusted for payments on these accounts and adjustments are made based on changes to actual recovery rates. Managed care accounts receivable are written down to their estimated net realizable value as they age over the course of 180 days. Historically, all accounts would be written off through the provision for doubtful accounts and assigned to our in house collection agency with an estimated future recovery amount established on the hospitals books at the same time. Based on various factors, managed care accounts are now collected through hospital based business offices or regional business offices, whereby the account balances remain in the hospitals billing system and on the hospitals books, and are adjusted based on an analysis of the net realizable value. 72 During 2003 and 2004, our procedures for estimating the net realizable value of accounts identified unfavorable trends in collection experience for both self pay and managed care accounts. We believe this trend in self pay is due to a combination of broad economic factors, including unemployment levels, reductions in state Medicaid budgets, increasing numbers of individuals and employers who choose not to purchase insurance, and the increasing burden of co payments and deductibles to be made by patients instead of insurers. Additionally, many of these patients, who delay or do not seek routine medical care because of the costs, are being admitted through the emergency department and often require more costly care, resulting in higher billings, which are the least collectible of all accounts. These factors cause a change in our business mix as admissions of uninsured and underinsured patients grow. Changes in the collectibility of managed care accounts receivable are ongoing as we continue to experience payment pressure from managed care companies (which pressure is exacerbated by disputes with certain managed care companies, primarily in California) concerning substantial amounts of past billings. We aggressively pursue collection of these accounts receivable using all means at our disposal, including arbitration and litigation, but we may not be successful. ACCRUALS FOR GENERAL AND PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY RISKS We insure substantially all of our professional and comprehensive general liability risks in excess of self insured retentions through insurance subsidiaries (see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Risks in excess of these retentions are reinsured with major independent insurance companies. We record reserves for claims when they are probable and reasonably estimable. We maintain reserves, which are based on actuarial estimates by an independent third party, for the portion of our professional liability risks, including incurred but not reported claims, to the extent we do not have insurance coverage (i.e., self insured retentions). We estimate reserves for losses and related expenses using expected loss reporting patterns. Reserves are discounted to their estimated present value under a risk free rate approach using a Federal Reserve seven year maturity composite rate that approximates our claims payout period. There can be no assurance that the ultimate liability will not exceed our estimates. Adjustments to the estimated reserves are recorded in our results of operations in the periods when such amounts are determined. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS AND GOODWILL We evaluate our long lived assets for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset, or related group of assets, may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. However, there is an evaluation performed at least annually. We base the measurement of the amount of the impairment, if any, on independent appraisals, established market values of comparable assets or estimates of future net cash flows expected to result from the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. The estimates of these future cash flows are based on assumptions and projections we believe to be reasonable and supportable. They require our subjective judgments and take into account assumptions about revenue and expense growth rates. These assumptions may vary by type of facility. We report long lived assets to be disposed of at the lower of their carrying amounts or fair values less costs to sell or close. In such circumstances, our estimates of fair value are based on independent appraisals, established market prices for comparable assets or internal calculations of estimated future net cash flows. Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the fair value of assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in purchase business combinations and determined to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but instead are subject to impairment tests performed at 73 least annually. For goodwill, we perform the test at the reporting unit level, as defined by appropriate accounting standards, when events occur that require an evaluation to be performed or at least annually. If we find the carrying value of goodwill to be impaired, or if the carrying value of a business that is to be sold or otherwise disposed of exceeds its fair value, then we reduce the carrying value, including any allocated goodwill, to fair value. Estimates of fair value are based on independent appraisals, established market prices for comparative assets or internal calculations of estimated future net cash flows. ACCOUNTING FOR INCOME TAXES We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS 109. This approach requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Developing our provision for income taxes and analysis of potential tax exposure items requires significant judgment and knowledge of federal and state income tax laws, regulations and strategies, including the determination of deferred tax assets and liabilities and, if necessary, any valuation allowances that may be required for deferred tax assets. We assess the realization of our deferred tax assets to determine whether an income tax valuation allowance is required. Based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, and the weight of that evidence to the extent such evidence can be objectively verified, we determine whether it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. The main factors that we consider include: cumulative losses in recent years; income/losses expected in future years; unsettled circumstances that, if unfavorably resolved, would adversely affect future operations and profit levels; the availability, or lack thereof, of taxable income in prior carryback periods that would limit realization of tax benefits; the carryforward period associated with the deferred tax assets and liabilities; and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. While we believe we have provided adequately for our income tax receivables or liabilities in our consolidated financial statements, adverse determinations by taxing authorities or changes in tax laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK BASED COMPENSATION We account for the cost of stock based compensation using the fair value method recommended by SFAS 123, under which the cost of stock option grants and other incentive awards to employees, directors, advisors and consultants generally is measured by the fair value of the awards on their grant date and is recognized over the vesting periods of the awards, whether or not the awards had any intrinsic value during the period. We estimate the fair value of stock option grants as of the date of each grant, using a Black Scholes option pricing model. This model incorporates our reasoned assumptions regarding (1) the expected volatility of our common stock price, (2) estimated risk free interest rates, and (3) the expected dividend yield, if any, all over the expected lives of the respective options. We do not adjust the model for non transferability, risk of forfeiture or the vesting restrictions 74 of the option all of which would reduce the option value if factored into our calculations. The most critical of the above assumptions in our calculations of fair value is the expected life of an option, because it, in turn, is a principal part of our calculations of expected volatility and interest rates. Accordingly, we reevaluate our estimate of expected life at each major grant date. Our reevaluation is based on recent exercise patterns and is reviewed from time to time by an outside, independent consulting firm.  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The table below presents information about certain of our market sensitive financial instruments as of December 31, 2004. The fair values were determined based on quoted market prices for the same or similar instruments. At December 31, 2004, we had no borrowings subject to or with variable interest rates. Maturity Date, Year ending December 31 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total Fair Value (Dollars in Millions) Fixed rate long term debt $41 $219 $207 $2 $1 $4,067 $4,537 $4,464 Average interest rates 6.62 % 5.28 % 4.95 % 4.56 % 4.56 % 7.36 % 6.97 % We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage or prepayment features. At December 31, 2004, we had no significant long term, market sensitive investments. Our market risk associated with our investments in debt securities classified as a current asset is substantially mitigated by the frequent turnover of the portfolio. We have no affiliation with partnerships, trusts or other entities (sometimes referred to as special purpose or variable interest entities) whose purpose is to facilitate off balance sheet financial transactions or similar arrangements. Thus, we have no exposure to the financing, liquidity, market or credit risks associated with such entities. 75   
 
