ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION TO MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS The purpose of this section, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, is to provide a narrative explanation of our financial statements that enables investors to better understand our business, to enhance our overall financial disclosures, to provide the context within which financial information may be analyzed, and to provide information about the 40 quality of, and potential variability of, our results of operations and cash flows. Unless otherwise indicated, all financial and statistical information included herein relates to our continuing operations, with dollar amounts expressed in millions (except per share amounts). This information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. It includes the following sections: Executive Overview Sources of Revenue Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Recently Issued Accounting Standards Critical Accounting Estimates EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW KEY DEVELOPMENTS During 2005, we continued to focus on the development and execution of our operating strategies, including initiatives we introduced during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Management is dedicated to improving our patients, shareholders and other stakeholders confidence in us. We believe we will do that by providing quality care and generating positive growth and earnings at our hospitals. Key developments included: Settlement of Pricing Litigation In March 2005, we announced that we had settled our pricing litigation, and in August 2005, we received final court approval of the settlement in connection with a class action lawsuit brought against us and all of our California hospitals, in which the plaintiffs alleged that they paid excessive or unfair prices for prescription drugs or medical products or procedures at hospitals or other medical facilities currently or formerly operated by our subsidiaries. The settlement should be nationwide in effect. A notice of appeal of the judgment approving the settlement was filed by an objector to the settlement. However, in connection with our agreement in principle, on February 28, 2006, to settle two related pricing cases in South Carolina, the objectors to the nationwide settlement have agreed to withdraw their notice of appeal of the judgment approving the nationwide settlement. Once the notice of appeal is withdrawn, the nationwide settlement will become effective, and once the settlement becomes effective, we expect similar cases brought by plaintiffs in Tennessee, Louisiana, Florida, South Carolina, Pennsylvania, Texas, Missouri and Alabama will be dismissed to the extent the claims in those cases fall within the scope of the release provided in the settlement. Settlement of Securities Lawsuit and Derivative Litigation In January 2006, we reached agreements in principle to settle a federal securities class action lawsuit brought against us on behalf of certain purchasers of Tenet securities, as well as shareholder derivative litigation brought by certain shareholders. If approved by the courts, we will pay $215 million in cash to settle the securities class action. We expect our insurance for directors and officers will contribute approximately $75 million toward our total cost. A net charge of $140 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005 for the estimated settlement. Settlement with the Florida Attorney General On February 21, 2006, we announced that we had reached a broad agreement with the Attorney General of the State of Florida to settle three 41 separate matters: (1) the investigation of physician relationships and coding at our Florida hospitals by the Florida Medicaid Fraud Control Unit ("FMFCU"); (2) the civil RICO action brought by the Florida Attorney General and 13 Florida county hospital districts, health care systems and non profit corporations; and (3) the FMFCUs investigation of our Florida Medical Center. As part of the settlement, we will pay a total of $7 million, which we recorded as a charge in the quarter ended December 31, 2005. This includes $4 million to establish a fund to pay for care of indigent, uninsured patients at the 13 county hospital districts and health care systems in Florida who were party to the lawsuit, and it also includes a $3 million payment to be allocated among the FMFCU and public hospitals in Florida. Progress in Existing Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Investigation As previously disclosed, the SEC is investigating allegations made by a former employee that inappropriate contractual allowances for managed care contracts may have been established at three California hospitals through at least fiscal year 2001. At the request of the audit committee of our board of directors, the boards independent outside counsel, Debevoise & Plimpton LLP ("Debevoise"), conducted an investigation of these allegations utilizing the forensic accounting services of Huron Consulting Group ("Huron"). This investigation was expanded and included determining whether similar issues might have affected other Tenet hospitals during the periods mentioned in the allegations and any other pertinent periods. Debevoise and Huron have completed their investigation and presented the results of their findings to the audit committee. Based on these findings, the audit committee determined that it would be necessary to restate our previously reported financial statements as described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Impact of Hurricane Katrina All five of our hospitals and several imaging centers in the New Orleans area and our hospital in Mississippi suffered considerable damage from Hurricane Katrina in late August 2005. The hospitals affected are Kenner Regional Medical Center, Lindy Boggs Medical Center, Meadowcrest Hospital, Memorial Medical Center, NorthShore Regional Medical Center, and Gulf Coast Medical Center. Lindy Boggs and Memorial are closed at this time due to damage from the hurricane. The other four hospitals and imaging centers are open and providing health care services, such as 24 hour emergency rooms, general surgery and outpatient diagnostics. However, due to damage, ongoing remediation efforts, staffing issues caused by the lack of available housing for physicians, nurses and staff, and the overall impact of the hurricane on the Gulf Coast area, the hospitals are operating at reduced levels. We completed our preliminary assessment of the financial impact caused by the hurricane on our Louisiana and Mississippi operations, and recorded approximately $52 million in costs and an impairment charge related to damage of $79 million, net of $64 million of insurance proceeds received by December 31, 2005. We estimate approximately $141 million in lost revenue in the six months ended December 31, 2005, and recorded a $61 million impairment charge reflecting the hurricanes impact on our future results of operations and cash flows, as more fully described in Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. New Health Network in New Orleans In October 2005, we announced the creation of a new, locally focused health network for restored and enhanced patient services in New Orleans. At this time, we plan on repairing our existing facilities or constructing new facilities if needed. We are still assessing whether to repair our existing Lindy Boggs and Memorial hospital buildings, but have decided to renovate one building on the campus of Memorial to create an ambulatory surgery center by September 2006 and then an all private room, 65 bed surgery oriented hospital by September 2007. To help design the repair and construction of facilities in the new network, we have engaged an architectural firm with particular expertise in health care facilities. The cost of creating the new network has not yet been fully determined, but we believe a significant portion of the cost may be covered by insurance proceeds rather than borrowings. 42 Construction of New El Paso Hospital On August 18, 2005, we announced our plan to construct a new 100 bed acute care hospital in El Paso, Texas. Construction is expected to begin in 2006 at a cost of approximately $130 million, and the hospital is targeted to open in March 2008. Sale of Facilities On March 8, 2005, we completed the previously announced sale of four hospitals in Orange County, California. The hospitals are Chapman Medical Center, Coastal Communities Hospital, Western Medical Center Anaheim and Western Medical Center Santa Ana. Net after tax proceeds, including the liquidation of working capital, are estimated to be approximately $80 million. On September 1, 2005, we completed the previously announced sale of Brotman Medical Center in Culver City, California. Net after tax proceeds, including the liquidation of working capital, are estimated to be approximately $27 million. On December 31, 2005, we completed the previously announced sale of Community and Mission Hospitals of Huntington Park in Huntington Park, California. Net after tax proceeds, including the liquidation of working capital, are estimated to be approximately $4 million. These seven hospitals are among the 27 hospitals whose intended divestiture we announced in January 2004. Departure of our Chief Financial Officer In November 2005, Robert S. Shapard, our chief financial officer since March 2005, decided to depart the Company and rejoin his former employer. Timothy L. Pullen, our executive vice president and chief accounting officer, is serving as interim chief financial officer while we conduct a nationwide search for Mr. Shapards successor. Appointment of New Chief Compliance Officer Effective August 1, 2005, Steven W. Ortquist was named senior vice president, ethics and compliance/chief compliance officer, a newly combined position. Prior to joining the Company, Steven was vice president, ethics and compliance/chief compliance officer at Banner Health in Phoenix and, before that, director of corporate compliance and assistant chief compliance officer at Rush Presbyterian St. Lukes Medical Center in Chicago. He is certified in health care compliance by the Healthcare Compliance Certification Board. Appointment of New Members to our Board of Directors In March 2005, we announced that Brenda J. Gaines, Karen M. Garrison and J. McDonald Williams had joined our board of directors as independent members. Brenda Gaines, retired president and chief executive officer of Diners Club North America, also currently serves on the boards of CNA Financial Corp., Office Depot Inc., the March of Dimes and the Economic Club of Chicago. Karen Garrison, retired president of the management services subsidiary of Pitney Bowes Inc., also serves on the boards of two other public companies, North Fork Bancorporation, Inc. and Standard Parking Corporation. Don Williams, retired chairman of Trammell Crow Company, also currently serves on the boards of two other public companies, Trammell Crow and Belo Corp. Approval of Stock Incentive Plan Amendment On May 26, 2005, our shareholders approved an amendment to our 2001 Stock Incentive Plan to allow a one time exchange of certain outstanding employee stock options for a lesser number of restricted stock units. Our directors, four most senior executives and all former employees were not eligible to participate. Approximately 92% of the eligible stock options were exchanged for restricted stock units on July 1, 2005. Issuance of New Senior Notes In January 2005, we issued $800 million of 91/4% senior notes due 2015 in a private placement with registration rights. We used a portion of the proceeds to repurchase or redeem the remaining $400 million aggregate principal amount outstanding on our senior notes due in 2006 and 2007, and the balance of the proceeds for general corporate purposes. Our next scheduled maturity of senior notes is now in 2011. 43 Amendment to Letter of Credit Facility On March 16, 2005, we amended our letter of credit facility. The amendment provided for the release of liens on the stock of certain of our subsidiaries, at our request, any time after April 15, 2005, so long as no default exists. On April 19, 2005, the stock certificates were returned to us, and all liens were subsequently terminated. In accordance with the amendment, the termination date of the letter of credit facility was extended from December 31, 2005 to June 30, 2006. The letter of credit facility was further amended in August 2005 to extend the termination date to June 30, 2008. The letter of credit facility remains collateralized by cash of approximately $263 million. SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGES Our performance this year was impacted by a combination of challenges specific to us and significant industry trends. Below is a summary of these items: Company Specific Challenges Volume decline Our total hospital volumes were negatively impacted by the effects of Hurricane Katrina in late August 2005 on our Gulf Coast operations and surrounding communities and will likely continue to be negatively impacted in future periods. As a result, we have excluded our six Gulf Coast hospitals and our imaging centers in New Orleans from our same hospital statistics in order to provide a comparable basis for assessing our operating results. Our admissions and outpatient visits decreased in 2005 from the prior year on this same hospital basis. We believe the reasons for the volume declines include, but are not limited to, the impact of our litigation and government investigations, physician attrition, increased competition and managed care contract negotiations or terminations. We are taking a number of steps to address the problem of volume decline. The most important of these is centered around building stronger relationships with the physicians who admit patients both to our hospitals and to our competitors hospitals. Our Commitment to Quality ("C2Q") initiative, which we launched in 2003, should help position us to competitively meet this challenge. By the end of 2005, we completed Phase I implementation of our C2Q initiative at all of our hospitals in continuing operations and started Phase II at several of these hospitals. As a result, at most of our hospitals, we have seen various levels of reductions in emergency room wait times, increases in on time starts in the operating rooms, and improved bed management and care coordination. We believe that these improvements will have the effect of increasing physician and patient satisfaction, potentially improving volumes as a result. Litigation and investigations Although we have settled several legacy issues, we continue to defend ourselves against a significant amount of litigation, and we are cooperating with a number of governmental investigations. We also continue to seek resolution of certain matters without litigation where appropriate and cost effective. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of material litigation and investigations and Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this report for more detailed information. Significant Industry Trends Bad debt Like others in the health care industry, we continue to provide services to a high volume of uninsured patients. Although the discounting components of our Compact have reduced and are expected to continue to reduce our provision for doubtful accounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements, they are not expected to mitigate the net economic effects of treating uninsured patients. We continue to experience a high level of uncollectible accounts, and unless a business mix shift toward a higher level of insured patients occurs, we anticipate this trend to continue. 44  Cost pressures Labor and supply costs remain a significant cost pressure facing us as well as the industry in general. In particular, the national nursing shortage continues and remains more serious in key specialties and in certain geographic areas than others, including several areas in which we operate hospitals. This has increased labor costs for nursing personnel. In addition, state mandated nurse staffing ratios in California affect not only our labor costs, but if we are unable to hire the necessary number of nurses to meet the required ratios, they may also cause us to limit patient admissions with a corresponding adverse effect on net operating revenues. Supply costs also continue to increase as new products and technology are used to improve the quality of care, as well as due to general inflation of supply costs. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Our results of operations for the last three years reflect the challenges we have faced in restructuring our operations to focus on a smaller group of general hospitals. Our turnaround timeframe is influenced by industry trends and company specific challenges that continue to negatively affect our patient volumes, revenue growth and operating expenses. In addition, our turnaround timeframe has now been influenced by the impact of Hurricane Katrina. Our future profitability depends on volume growth, reimbursement levels and cost control. Results of operations Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004: Same hospital net inpatient revenue per patient day and per admission increased by 2.6% and 2.1%, respectively, primarily due to the effect of newly negotiated levels of reimbursement on our managed care contracts and slightly higher Medicare reimbursement levels, offset by additional discounts under the Compact during the phase in process. Same hospital net outpatient revenue per visit increased 2.3%, while same hospital outpatient visits declined 8.2%. The increase in revenue per visit is due primarily to higher emergency room volume, a positive shift in payer mix and the sale or closure of certain home health agencies, hospices and clinics, which businesses typically generate lower revenue per visit amounts than other outpatient services. Cash generated by operating activities was $763 million during 2005 compared to cash used by operations of $82 million during 2004, reflecting an income tax refund of $537 million received in March 2005 and lower restructuring and litigation settlement payments. Results of operations Year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003: Net inpatient revenue per patient day and per admission increased by 2.1% and 2.5%, respectively, despite the implementation, during the last half of the year, of our discounting of self pay charges under the Compact. Net outpatient visits and outpatient revenue decreased by 4.3% and 4.7%, respectively. Two material patient litigation matters (Redding Medical Center and Palm Beach Gardens) were settled in the fourth quarter of 2004, resulting in charges to our results of operations. We refinanced debt and increased liquidity through private placements of debt, pushing our next major maturity out to December 2011, after various debt extinguishments in the first quarter of 2005. Cash used in operating activities was $82 million during 2004 (prior to capital expenditures and asset sale proceeds), which included payments for restructuring, litigation and settlement costs of $280 million and a use of cash in our discontinued operations of $408 million, which included a 45 $395 million legal settlement related to Redding Medical Center, compared to cash provided by operating activities of $838 million in 2003. The table below shows the pretax and after tax impact on continuing operations during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 of (1) additional provision for doubtful accounts, (2) a change in prior year liability estimates for retirement plans, (3) impairment and restructuring charges, (4) hurricane costs, (5) costs of litigation and investigations, (6) net gains on sales of facilities, long term investments and subsidiary common stock, (7) loss from early extinguishment of debt, (8) impairment of investment securities, (9) reduction in our estimated income tax exposures and (10) adjustments to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets: Years ended December 31 2005 2004(1) 2003(1) Restated Restated (Expense) Income Additional provision for doubtful accounts $ $ (196 ) $ (166 ) Change in prior year liability estimates for retirement plans 31 Impairment of long lived assets and goodwill (255 ) (1,236 ) (1,278 ) Restructuring charges (11 ) (48 ) (115 ) Loss from hurricanes and related costs (55 ) Costs of litigation and investigations (212 ) (74 ) (282 ) Net gains on sales of facilities, long term investments and subsidiary common stock 4 7 16 Loss from early extinguishment of debt (15 ) (13 ) Impairment of investment securities (5 ) Pretax impact $ (513 ) $ (1,560 ) $ (1,830 ) Reduction in estimated tax exposures, including interest $ 38 $ $ Deferred tax asset valuation allowance $ (218 ) $ (586 ) $ Total after tax impact $ (506 ) $ (1,851 ) $ (1,394 ) Diluted per share impact of above items $ (1.08 ) $ (3.97 ) $ (2.99 ) Diluted loss per share, including above items $ (1.32 ) $ (4.10 ) $ (2.41 ) (1)Certain amounts for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 have been restated as a result of the adjustments described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OVERVIEW Net cash provided by operating activities was $763 million in 2005 compared to cash used of $82 million in 2004. The principal reasons for the change were an income tax refund of $537 million received in March 2005 and a positive change in cash used by operating activities from discontinued operations of $453 million. Proceeds from the sales of facilities, long term investments and other assets during 2005 and 2004 aggregated $173 million and $502 million, respectively. In January 2005, we sold $800 million of unsecured 91/4% senior notes with registration rights in a private placement. The net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes were approximately $773 million after deducting discounts and related expenses. We used a portion of the proceeds in February 2005 for the early redemption of the remaining $400 million aggregate principal amount outstanding on our senior notes due in 2006 and 2007, and the balance of the proceeds for general corporate purposes. Our next scheduled maturity of senior notes is now in 2011. From time to time, we expect to engage in various capital markets, bank credit and other financing activities depending on our needs and financing alternatives available at the time. 46 In June 2004, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due in 2014 and subsequently used a portion of the $954 million of net proceeds, after deducting discounts and related expenses, to repurchase $552 million of senior notes due in 2006 through 2008. On December 31, 2004, we terminated our then existing credit agreement and replaced it with a letter of credit facility. The new facility provides for the issuance of up to $250 million in letters of credit and does not provide for any cash borrowings. The new facility is collateralized by cash equal to 105% of the facility amount (approximately $263 million reflected as restricted cash on the Consolidated Balance Sheet). We are currently in compliance with all covenants in our letter of credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes. (See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) At December 31, 2005, we had approximately $194 million of letters of credit outstanding under the letter of credit facility. In addition, we had approximately $1.373 billion of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents on hand as of December 31, 2005. OUTLOOK In late 2002, Tenet was confronted with severe operating challenges. These challenges arose in the areas of clinical quality at our hospital in Redding, California, an aggressive pricing strategy that resulted in unusually large amounts of managed care stop loss payments and Medicare outlier payments, and reviews by government agencies into physician relationships at some of our hospitals. This scrutiny has had a negative effect on our relationships with physicians, patients, communities and, to some extent, our employees, and has adversely impacted our operating performance. However, with a new senior management team in place, we have worked to make extensive changes to the company and to build a sustainable foundation that is based on the integrity of our people, the strength of our hospitals, a comprehensive clinical quality agenda, high governance standards, a revitalized compliance program, and consistent efforts to rebuild our relationships with key constituents. We have launched initiatives to align the objectives of our hospitals and physicians in the areas of clinical quality and service. To that end, we have several ongoing initiatives as part of our Commitment to Quality program that address the implementation of evidence based medicine, efficiency in our operating rooms and emergency rooms, and key roles of our physician leaders and members of our governing boards. Separately, several large managed care companies have initiated a system of profiling hospitals based on both cost and quality in order to generate a "value rating" in a given market. The payers provide access to this data to both physicians and patients, allowing them to utilize the data in making their hospital selections. Our goal is to attain center of excellence status at as many of our hospitals as possible based on each payers individual standards. Our efforts to achieve volume growth in 2006 will also include a targeted growth initiative that focuses our hospitals on offering the clinical services most needed by their communities. In 2005, this initiative caused some volume loss due to intentional elimination of unprofitable or uncompetitive services and it may continue to do so in 2006. However, we believe the initiative will ultimately have a positive impact on our profitability. We believe our efforts to repair the damage that resulted from our prior pricing strategy have begun to achieve their intended results. Since early 2003, we have generally held our hospital charges steady in the majority of our hospitals, and our charges are now closer to or at market level in many of our geographic areas. We continue to monitor pricing in conjunction with industry trends to achieve pricing transparency and to meet the needs of our patients. We also now offer discounts to uninsured patients at all of our hospitals so that the bills those patients receive reflect rates comparable to those of managed care patients. In addition, we have worked diligently to align our managed care contracts with our current pricing strategy. We have transitioned the majority of our key managed care contracts to more predictable market based per diems with lessened dependence on stop loss payments, which are based on a hospitals billed charges. Throughout this renegotiation process, we have achieved 47 higher base rates in line with market increases, resulting in a higher overall managed care portfolio yield. The challenges associated with managed care pricing are ongoing and we must build patient volume in order to improve operating performance during 2006. Pricing and volume growth are key drivers of our profitability, but improving our profit margin is also heavily reliant upon controlling our costs. Our current initiatives in this area are designed to improve productivity and gain efficiency. We are working with our hospitals to reduce their non contracted purchasing and to utilize systems to effectively adjust their spending levels based on expected volume and utilization. We will continue to focus on supply costs, particularly in the areas of implants, blood products, prosthetics and pharmaceuticals, which have experienced the highest growth in cost or utilization or both. Consistent with our approach for group purchasing of supplies, we are also looking at similar methods for negotiating purchases in areas of company wide spending, other than supplies. In addition, we have implemented initiatives intended to control the rising costs of salaries, wages and benefits. We have adjusted our staffing levels and will continue to make adjustments as necessary and appropriate based on patient volumes. Overcoming our challenges and positioning ourselves for improved future financial performance will continue to take time. We have numerous initiatives in place and additional actions designed to improve our operating performance will be implemented during 2006. We believe we can make progress in our effort to improve profitability and margins through initiatives to grow volume, our sustainable pricing approach and effective cost control measures. Simultaneously, we intend to further strengthen the foundation we have built over the past three years with our continued focus on integrity, operating strength, clinical quality, corporate governance, compliance, and rebuilding relationships. SOURCES OF REVENUE We receive revenues for patient services from a variety of sources, primarily the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, managed care payers (including preferred provider organizations and health maintenance organizations), indemnity based health insurance companies, and self pay patients (patients who do not have health insurance and are not covered by some other form of third party arrangement). The table below shows the sources of net patient revenues for our general hospitals, expressed as percentages of net patient revenues from all sources: Years ended December 31 2005 2004 2003(2) Net Patient Revenues from: Medicare 27.5 % 26.1 % 25.0 % Medicaid 8.3 % 7.4 % 7.7 % Managed care(1) 50.8 % 49.7 % 50.9 % Indemnity, self pay and other 13.4 % 16.8 % 16.4 % (1)Includes Medicare Advantage and Medicaid managed care. (2)Percentages for December 31, 2003 have been restated as a result of the restatement of revenue described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. There was no impact on the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in indemnity, self pay and other net patient revenues during 2005 is due primarily to the implementation of the discounting components of the Compact. Payer mix on an admissions basis 48 for our general hospitals, expressed as a percentage of total admissions from all sources, is virtually unchanged as shown below: Years ended December 31 2005 2004 Admissions from: Medicare 33.5 % 33.8 % Medicaid 13.4 % 13.2 % Managed care 44.8 % 44.8 % Indemnity, self pay and other 8.3 % 8.2 % GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS The Medicare program, the nations largest health insurance program, is administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ("CMS"). Medicare is a health insurance program primarily for individuals 65 years of age and older, certain younger people with disabilities, and people with end stage renal disease, and is provided without regard to income or assets. Medicaid is a program that pays for medical assistance for certain individuals and families with low incomes and resources, and is jointly funded by the federal government and state governments. Medicaid is the largest source of funding for medical and health related services for the nations poorest and most vulnerable populations. These government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease government program payments in the future, as well as affect the cost of providing services to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. We are unable to predict the effect of future government health care funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payers are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payers is limited, if we are required to pay substantial amounts in settlement pertaining to government programs, or if we, or one or more of our subsidiaries hospitals, are excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid program or any other government health care program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The government is investigating various matters, including Medicare outlier payments we received in prior years, as discussed under Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this report. Medicare Medicare offers beneficiaries different ways to obtain their medical benefits. One option, the Traditional Medicare Plan, is a fee for service payment system. The other option, called Medicare Advantage (formerly Medicare + Choice), includes managed care, preferred provider organization, private fee for service and specialty plans. The major components of our net patient revenues for 49 services provided to patients enrolled in the Traditional Medicare Plan for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are set forth in the table below: Years ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 Restated Revenue Descriptions Diagnosis related group operating $ 1,437 $ 1,407 $ 1,387 Diagnosis related group capital 148 149 147 Outlier 84 64 101 Outpatient 404 418 410 Disproportionate share 230 215 189 Direct Graduate and Indirect Medical Education 130 129 108 Inpatient psychiatric(1) 59 62 58 Inpatient rehabilitation 92 123 141 Other(1)(2) (1 ) 31 45 Adjustments for valuation allowance and prior year cost report settlements(1) 27 (33 ) (96 ) Total Medicare net patient revenues $ 2,610 $ 2,565 $ 2,490 (1)Certain components of Medicare revenue for the year ended December 31, 2003 were restated as a result of the adjustments described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, other prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. (2)The other revenue category includes our skilled nursing facilities, one prospective payment system ("PPS") exempt cancer hospital, one long term acute care hospital, other revenue adjustments and adjustments related to the current year cost reports. Acute Care Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System Diagnosis Related Group Payments Sections 1886(d) and 1886(g) of the Social Security Act (the "Act") set forth a system of payments for the operating and capital costs of acute care hospital stays based on a prospective payment system. Under the inpatient prospective payment system ("IPPS"), Medicare payments for hospital inpatient operating and capital related costs are made at predetermined rates for each hospital discharge. Discharges are classified according to a list of diagnosis related groups ("DRGs"), which group patients with similar clinical characteristics that are expected to require similar amounts of hospital resources. CMS assigns to each DRG a relative weight that represents the average resources required to care for cases in that particular DRG, relative to the average resources used to treat cases in all DRGs. Effective October 1, 2005, the IPPS includes 524 DRGs to which a relative weight has been assigned. The base payment amount for operating costs is comprised of an average standardized amount that is divided into a labor related share and a nonlabor related share. Both the labor related share of the operating base payments and the capital base payments are adjusted by the geographic variations in labor and capital costs. These base payments are multiplied by the relative weight of the DRG assigned to each case. Although these payments are adjusted for area labor and capital cost differentials, the adjustments do not take into consideration an individual hospitals operating and capital costs. The DRG operating and capital base rates are updated annually, giving consideration to the increased cost of goods and services purchased by hospitals. The rate increases that became effective on October 1, 2005 and October 1, 2004 were 3.7% and 3.3%, respectively. Outlier Payments Outlier payments are additional payments made to hospitals for treating Medicare patients who are costlier to treat than the average patient in the same DRG. To qualify as a 50 cost outlier, a hospitals billed (or gross) charges, adjusted to cost, must exceed the payment rate for the DRG by a fixed threshold established annually by CMS. The Medicare fiscal intermediary calculates the cost of a claim by multiplying the billed charges by a cost to charge ratio that is typically based on the hospitals most recent filed cost report. If the computed cost exceeds the sum of the DRG payment plus the fixed threshold, the hospital receives 80% of the difference as an outlier payment. Under the Act, CMS must project aggregate annual outlier payments to all PPS hospitals to be not less than 5% nor more than 6% of total DRG payments ("Outlier Percentage"). The Outlier Percentage is determined by dividing total outlier payments by the sum of DRG and outlier payments. CMS annually adjusts the fixed threshold to bring expected outlier payments within the mandated limit. A change to the fixed threshold affects total outlier payments by changing (1) the number of cases that qualify for outlier payments, and (2) the dollar amount hospitals receive for those cases that still qualify. On January 6, 2003, in response to concerns raised by CMS regarding the level of outlier payments we were receiving, we voluntarily submitted a proposal to CMS that would reduce outlier payments to our hospitals retroactive to January 1, 2003. During 2003, CMS issued new regulations governing the calculation of outlier payments to hospitals. Those regulations, which became effective August 8, 2003, included several significant changes, many of which were contemplated in our proposal. Our proposal to CMS included a provision to reconcile the payments we would receive under our proposed interim arrangement to those we would have received if the new CMS regulations had gone into effect on January 1, 2003 up to August 8, 2003, the effective date of the final rules and regulations (the "Reconciliation Period"). The final determination and outcome of outlier payments under the reduction arrangement continues to be the subject of further review and approval by CMS. The final outcome could result in an additional material increase to the ultimate amount of outlier revenue we could potentially recognize for the Reconciliation Period; however, this remains unknown at this point. In July 2004 we were informed that CMS is also reviewing the application of their rules concerning the use of the statewide ratio of cost to charges for calculating outlier payments for prior years principally related to the acquisition of our Philadelphia area hospitals in 1998. This matter is unresolved at this time and we cannot predict the final outcome. An adverse final determination could result in a material decrease to outlier revenue recorded in prior years. Additionally, CMS Program Memorandum Transmittal A 02 126 dated December 20, 2002 Instructions Regarding Outlier Payments ("PM") instructed Medicare fiscal intermediaries to identify hospitals that "appear, through data analysis, to present the greatest risk to the program." The PM set forth requirements and criteria for audits and reviews, which include comprehensive field audits of cost reports, uniform charge reviews and medical reviews. We previously disclosed that, in accordance with the PM, CMS instructed our fiscal intermediary to conduct audits and reviews of 16 of our hospitals, including nine hospitals that were divested or are pending divestiture. During the third quarter of 2005, our fiscal intermediary completed the cost report audits and uniform charge reviews of our hospitals required by the PM, and we have received notices of their findings for the hospitals reviewed. There were no adverse findings from the uniform charge reviews, the purpose of which was to establish that hospitals applied charges for services uniformly and consistently. The intermediarys findings from its audit of the cost reports, most of which had been previously audited and settled through routinely conducted audits, will not have a material impact on our previously recorded revenues. However, our charging practices in connection with our Medicare outlier payments received in prior years remain under investigation. (See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) Disproportionate Share Payments If a Medicare participating hospital serves a disproportionate share of low income patients, it receives a percentage add on to the DRG payment for each case. This percentage varies, depending on several factors that include the percentage of low income patients 51 served. During 2005, 55 of our hospitals in continuing operations qualified for disproportionate share payments. Direct Graduate and Indirect Medical Education The Medicare program provides additional reimbursement to approved teaching hospitals for additional expenses incurred by such institutions. This additional reimbursement, which is subject to certain limits, including intern and resident full time equivalent ("FTE") caps established in 1996, is made in the form of Direct Graduate Medical Education ("GME") and Indirect Medical Education ("IME") payments. During 2005, 24 of our hospitals in continuing operations were affiliated with academic institutions and were eligible to receive such payments. Medicare rules permit hospitals to enter into Medicare GME Affiliation Agreements for the purpose of applying the FTE limits on an aggregate basis, and some of our hospitals have entered into such agreements. Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System Under the outpatient prospective payment system, hospital outpatient services, except for certain services that are reimbursed on a separate fee schedule, are classified into groups called ambulatory payment classifications ("APCs"). Services in each APC are similar clinically and in terms of the resources they require, and a payment rate is established for each APC. Depending on the services provided, hospitals may be paid for more than one APC for an encounter. CMS periodically updates the APCs and annually adjusts rates paid for each APC. Inpatient Psychiatric Facility Prospective Payment System Effective January 1, 2005, CMS implemented a new system of reimbursement for hospital inpatient psychiatric services to replace a cost based payment system. The inpatient psychiatric facility prospective payment system ("IPF PPS") applies to psychiatric hospitals and psychiatric units located within acute care hospitals that have been designated as exempt from the hospital inpatient prospective payment system. The IPF PPS includes several provisions to ease the transition to the new payment system. For example, CMS is phasing in the IPF PPS for existing hospitals and units over a three year period to avoid disrupting the delivery of inpatient psychiatric services. Full payment under the IPF PPS begins in the fourth year. The IPF PPS, which is based on prospectively determined per diem rates, includes a stop loss provision to protect providers against significant losses during the transition period, and an outlier policy that authorizes additional payments for extraordinarily costly cases. At December 31, 2005, 20 of our general hospitals in continuing operations operated Medicare certified psychiatric units. Because of the aforementioned three year transition and stop loss provisions of the IPF PPS, the new payment system has not had, and, we believe, will not have a material impact on our 2006 inpatient psychiatric payments. Inpatient Rehabilitation Prospective Payment System Rehabilitation hospitals and rehabilitation units in acute care hospitals meeting certain criteria established by CMS are eligible to be paid as an Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility ("IRF") under the IRF prospective payment system ("IRF PPS"). Payments under the IRF PPS are made on a per discharge basis. A patient classification system is used to assign patients in IRFs into case mix groups ("CMGs"). The IRF PPS uses federal prospective payment rates across distinct CMGs. Prior to July 1, 2004, a rehabilitation hospital or unit was eligible for classification as an IRF if it could show that, during its most recent 12 month cost reporting period, it served an inpatient population of whom at least 75 percent required intensive rehabilitation services for the treatment of one or more of ten specific conditions. This became known as the "75 percent rule." 52  On May 7, 2004, CMS released a final rule entitled "Medicare Program; Changes to the Criteria for Being Classified as an Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility" ("IRF Rule") that revised the medical condition criteria rehabilitation hospitals and units must meet. The IRF Rule also replaced the "75 percent rule" compliance threshold with a three year transition compliance threshold of 50%, 60% and 65% for years one, two and three, respectively, that commenced with cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2004. At the end of the three year transition period, the 75% compliance threshold would be restored. In January 2005, CMS suspended enforcement of the revised and expanded classification criteria contained in the IRF Rule in response to a provision of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005 ("CAA"). The CAA directed CMS not to change the status of certain IRFs for their failure to comply with the classification criteria in the IRF Rule until it had reviewed recommendations from a then pending study by the United States Government Accountability Office ("GAO") of clinically appropriate IRF classification criteria. The GAO issued its report and recommendations in April 2005. The GAO recommended that CMS further identify subgroups of patients within a condition that would better identify patients that appear to need an IRF level of care, based upon research and review of IRF cases. Significantly, the GAO did not recommend that CMS delay implementing the classification criteria specified in the IRF Rule pending further refinement. On June 21, 2005, CMS issued a notice announcing that it would proceed with implementing the revised and expanded classification criteria for IRFs it adopted in the IRF Rule. Accordingly, the June 2005 CMS notice lifts the January 2005 suspension of enforcement of the classification criteria in the IRF Rule. At December 31, 2005, we operated two inpatient rehabilitation hospitals, and 18 of our general hospitals in continuing operations operated inpatient rehabilitation units. The fiscal intermediary determines compliance with the classification criteria of the IRF Rule based on the Medicare year end of the hospital. Eight of our rehabilitation units have received notices from the fiscal intermediary that they continue to meet the IRF classification criteria. The determination of compliance for the remaining 10 units and the two rehabilitation hospitals will be performed by the fiscal intermediary during the first quarter of federal fiscal year ("FFY") 2006. Based on the most recent data available, one of those 10 hospital units may not meet the compliance threshold. If our rehabilitation hospitals and units fail to continue to qualify as inpatient facilities, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Medicare contractors (fiscal intermediaries and carriers) are authorized to issue local coverage determinations ("LCDs"). An LCD is a decision by a fiscal intermediary or carrier whether to cover a particular service on an intermediary wide or carrier wide basis resulting from a determination as to whether the service is reasonable and necessary. During the second quarter of 2005, our fiscal intermediary issued a LCD regarding inpatient rehabilitation services. This LCD establishes comparatively restrictive admission criteria to the clinical conditions required for Medicare payment for inpatient rehabilitation services. Our rehabilitation hospitals and units may experience a decline in admissions and greater difficulty meeting the aforementioned IRF classification compliance thresholds as a result of this LCD. Cost Reports The final determination of certain Medicare payments to our hospitals, such as disproportionate share, GME, IME and bad debt expense, are retrospectively determined based on our hospitals cost reports. The final determination of these payments often takes many years to resolve because of audits by the program representatives, providers rights of appeal, and the application of numerous technical reimbursement provisions. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2003, we recorded estimates for contractual allowances and cost report settlements based on amounts generated from information accumulated from various accounting and information systems. Adjustments to these accruals were generally made upon the final settlement of Medicare and Medicaid cost reports. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we completed the 53 implementation of a new system and estimation process for recording Medicare net patient revenue and estimated cost report settlements. This resulted in a refinement in recording the accruals to more closely reflect the expected final settlements on our cost reports. For filed cost reports, we now record the accrual based on those cost reports and subsequent activity, and record a valuation allowance against those cost reports based on historical settlement trends. The accrual for periods for which a cost report is yet to be filed is now recorded based on estimates of what we expect to report on the filed cost reports and a corresponding valuation allowance is recorded as previously described. Cost reports must be filed generally within five months after the end of the annual cost report reporting period. After the cost report is filed, the accrual and corresponding valuation allowance may need to be adjusted. Medicaid Medicaid programs are funded by both the federal government and state governments. These programs and the reimbursement methodologies are administered by the states and vary from state to state. Estimated payments under various state Medicaid programs, excluding state funded managed care programs, constituted approximately 8.3%, 7.4% and 7.7% of net patient revenues at our continuing general hospitals for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These payments are typically based on fixed rates determined by the individual states. We also receive disproportionate share payments under various state Medicaid programs. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, our disproportionate share payments and other state funded subsidies were approximately $92 million, $78 million and $71 million, respectively. Many states in which we operate are facing budgetary challenges that pose a threat to Medicaid funding levels to hospitals and other providers. We expect these challenges to continue; however, we cannot predict the extent of the impact of the states budget reductions, if any, on our hospitals. Also, new Medicaid programs or any changes to existing programs could materially impact Medicaid payments to our hospitals. Regulatory and Legislative Changes Annual Update to the Medicare Inpatient Prospective Payment System Under Medicare law, CMS is required annually to update certain rules governing the IPPS. The updates generally become effective October 1, the beginning of the FFY. On August 12, 2005, CMS issued the Changes to the Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment Systems and FFY 2006 Rates ("Final Rule"). The Final Rule includes the following payment policy changes: A 3.7% inflation update for DRG operating payments for hospitals reporting specified quality data; A 0.8% inflation update for DRG capital payments; Expanding the post acute transfer policy that currently applies to 30 DRGs to 182 DRGs; A decrease in the cost outlier threshold from $25,800 to $23,600; and Replacing nine cardiovascular DRGs with 12 new DRGs that, according to CMS, "better recognize severity of illness." CMS projects that the combined impact of the payment and policy changes will yield an average 3.4% increase in payments for hospitals in large urban areas (populations over 1 million). Using the impact percentages in the Final Rule for hospitals in large urban areas applied to our Medicare IPPS payments for the twelve months ended September 30, 2005, the annual impact for all changes in the Final Rule on our hospitals may result in an estimated increase in our Medicare revenues of approximately $55 million. This includes an estimated decrease in payments of approximately $15 million related to the expansion of the post acute transfer policy. Because of the uncertainty 54 regarding other factors that may influence our future IPPS payments, including admission volumes, length of stay and case mix, we cannot provide any assurances regarding these estimates. Annual Update to the Medicare Outpatient Prospective Payment System On November 10, 2005, CMS issued the Final Changes to the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System and Calendar Year 2006 Payment Rates ("Final OPPS Rule"). The Final OPPS Rule includes the following changes: A 3.7% inflation update in Medicare payment rates in 2006 for outpatient services; and Continued lower coinsurance rates for Medicare patients outpatient services. CMS projects that the combined impact of the payment and policy changes will yield an average 2.2% increase in payments for all hospitals, and an average of 1.2% increase in payments for hospitals located in large urban areas (populations over one million). Using the impact percentages in the Final OPPS Rule for hospitals in large urban areas applied to our Medicare outpatient PPS payments for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, the annual impact for all changes in the rule on our hospitals may result in an estimated increase in our Medicare revenues of approximately $5 million. Because of the uncertainty regarding other factors that may influence our future outpatient PPS payments, including volumes and case mix, we cannot provide any assurances regarding these estimates. Proposed Payment and Policy Changes to the Inpatient Psychiatric Facility Prospective Payment System On January 23, 2006, CMS issued the Inpatient Psychiatric Facilities Prospective Payment System Payment Update for Rate Year Beginning July 1, 2006 Proposed Rule ("IPF PPS Rule"). The IPF PPS Rule includes the following: A market basket increase of 4.7% in total payments; and An increase to the fixed dollar loss threshold amount for outlier payments from $5,700 to $6,200. CMS projects that the combined impact of the proposed payment and policy changes will yield an average 4.2% increase in payments for all psychiatric hospitals (including psychiatric units in acute care hospitals), and an average of 2.6% increase in payments for psychiatric units of acute care hospitals located in large urban areas (populations over one million). Using the impact percentages in the proposed rule for psychiatric units of acute care hospitals located in large urban areas applied to our Medicare IPF PPS payments for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, the annual impact for all changes in the proposed rule on our hospital units may result in an estimated increase in our Medicare revenues of approximately $1.5 million. Because of the uncertainty regarding other factors that may influence our future IPF PPS payments, including volumes, length of stay and case mix, we cannot provide any assurances regarding these estimates. Proposed Payment and Policy Changes to the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System On August 15, 2005, CMS issued the Final Rule for the IRF PPS for FFY 2006 ("IRF PPS Final Rule"). CMS projects that the impact of the payment and policy changes will yield an average 5.3% increase in payments for hospital units in urban areas. For hospitals in urban areas, CMS projects that the proposed changes will yield an average 0.0% change in payments. Applying these impact percentages to our Medicare IRF PPS payments for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, the annual impact for all changes on our IRF hospitals and hospital units may result in an estimated increase in our Medicare revenues of approximately $3 million. Because of the uncertainty of the factors that may influence our future IRF PPS payments, including admission volumes, length of stay and case mix, and the impact of compliance with IRF admission criteria rules discussed above, we cannot provide any assurances regarding these estimates. 55 Specialty Hospitals On June 9, 2005, CMS announced the next steps it will take in connection with the end of an 18 month moratorium imposed by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 as to new specialty hospitals, which expired on June 8, 2005. CMS has instructed Medicare fiscal intermediaries not to process new provider enrollment applications for specialty hospitals until further notice. In addition, CMS stated that it will undertake the following steps during the suspension to reform Medicare payments that may provide specialty hospitals with an unfair advantage over other types of providers, such as community hospitals or ambulatory surgical centers ("ASCs"): (1) reform payment rates for inpatient hospital services through changes to the DRG system; (2) reform payment rates for ASCs; (3) review procedures for approving hospitals for participation in Medicare and closely scrutinize processes for approving and starting to pay new specialty hospitals; and (4) seek public comment on the appropriate standards for specialty hospitals. According to CMS, these steps are designed to promote true and fair competition in hospital services, while improving quality and avoiding unnecessary costs for patients and for the Medicare program. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 ("MMA") (P.L. 108 173), which was signed into law on December 8, 2003, includes several provisions affecting hospital Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. Below is a summary of the significant provisions affecting our hospitals reimbursement: Medicare For FFYs 2005, 2006 and 2007, hospitals will receive an inpatient update equal to the full market basket rate if they submit quality performance data to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS"). Those hospitals not submitting quality performance data for 10 quality measures will receive an increase equal to the market basket rate minus 0.4%. In order to qualify for the full market basket update, hospitals must submit performance data on all patients on the 10 quality measures that are a subset of common hospital performance measures developed and aligned by CMS and the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations and endorsed by the National Quality Foundation. Effective October 1, 2005, all of our hospitals with the exception of two, one of which is closed as a result of Hurricane Katrina, received the full market basket update for FFY 2006. The indirect medical education adjustment decreases from 5.8% in FFY 2005 to 5.55% in FFY 2006 and down to 5.35% in FFY 2007. It increases to 5.5% for FFY 2008 and beyond. Medicaid The reduction in Medicaid Disproportionate Share hospital funding (referred to as the "DSH cliff") in FFY 2004 was eliminated and the DSH allotment increased 16% over FFY 2003 levels. Subsequent years are frozen at 2004 levels until the allotment level intersects with where it would have been absent relief from the Balanced Budget Act. Increases thereafter are tied to the change in the Consumer Price Index. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (S.1932) On February 8, 2006, the President signed the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 into law. Significant provisions of the legislation affecting hospitals include: A six month extension of HHS policy to suspend issuance of new provider numbers for specialty hospitals. A one year extension, from July 1, 2006 through June 30, 2007, of the current compliance threshold of 60% that inpatient rehabilitation facilities and units must meet to retain their IRF status. On July 1, 2007, the previously scheduled transition schedule (i.e., a 65% threshold, followed by a 75% threshold) resumes. Effective for payments beginning in FFY 2007, hospitals must submit data on additional quality measures. CMS must begin to adopt the baseline set of 22 performance measures as set forth in 56 the November 2005 report by the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences under Section 238(b) of the MMA. Failure to submit the required data on the quality measures selected by CMS will result in a 2% market basket reduction. This provision supplants the current reporting requirement under the MMA described above. For FFY 2008, CMS must add additional quality measures for hospitals to report to receive the maximum payment update available. Also, hospitals would be required to identify cases assigned to DRGs that have higher payments when a hospital acquired infection is present. CMS would identify at least two conditions under which the hospital would receive the lower DRG payment. CMS must establish a gainsharing demonstration project to test and evaluate methods and arrangements between hospitals and physicians to improve the quality and efficiency of care and hospital performance. The demonstration would run from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2009 and have six demonstration sites, two of which must be rural. We cannot predict what impact this legislation may have on our hospitals. Medicare Payment Advisory Commission Recommendation The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission ("MedPAC"), an independent federal body established by the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, advises the U.S. Congress on issues affecting the Medicare program, including payments to providers and health plans participating in Medicare, and analyzes access to care, quality of care and other issues affecting Medicare. On January 10, 2006, the MedPAC Commissioners approved a recommendation calling for a FFY 2007 payment update for inpatient and outpatient payments of market basket minus 0.45%. Current forecasts project that the market basket of hospital goods and services will increase 4.0% in FFY 2007. On March 1, 2005, the MedPAC released its March 2005 Report to Congress: Medicare Payment Policy. In that report, the MedPAC recommended that Medicare should pay more for higher quality performance from hospitals, home health agencies and physicians. On March 8, 2005, the MedPAC released a report on the impact of specialty hospitals on the hospital industry and the Medicare program in particular. In its Report to Congress: Physician Owned Specialty Hospitals ("MedPAC Report"), the MedPAC concluded that one of the motivations for physicians to establish physician owned specialty hospitals may be financial rewards, some of which derive from inaccuracies in the Medicare payment system. The MedPAC Report concentrates on remedying those inaccuracies with the following recommendations: CMS should improve payment accuracy in the hospital inpatient prospective payment system by: Refining the current DRGs to more fully capture differences in severity of illness among patients; Basing the DRG relative weights on the estimated cost of providing care rather than on charges; and Basing the weights on the national average of hospitals relative values in each DRG. Congress should amend the law to give CMS authority to adjust the relative weights to account for differences in the prevalence of high cost outlier cases. Congress and CMS should implement the case mix measurement and outlier policies over a transitional period. Congress should extend the current moratorium on specialty hospitals until January 1, 2007. Congress should grant the Secretary the authority to allow gainsharing arrangements between physicians and hospitals and to regulate those arrangements to protect the quality of care and minimize financial incentives that could affect physician referrals. 57 The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 includes legislation to establish a gainsharing demonstration project. With respect to the other MedPAC recommendations, CMS authority is limited and most would require Congressional action. We cannot predict what action Congress or CMS will take on any of these recommendations or the impact, if any, these recommendations will have on our hospitals. FFY 2007 Federal Budget Proposal On February 6, 2006, the White House released its FFY 2007 budget proposal, which includes nearly $36 billion in Medicare cuts over five years. The proposed Medicare cuts affecting hospitals include: A FFY 2007 Medicare update of market basket minus 0.45% and minus 0.4% in 2008 and 2009, respectively, for acute hospital inpatient and outpatient services; A FFY 2007 IRF PPS update of 0% and market basket minus 0.4% in 2008 and 2009; A "modest slowdown in the rate of growth" in the out years for all Medicare payments should Congress fail to achieve "more sustainable financing levels"; and Two policy changes: Phasing out Medicare bad debt expense payments for all providers; and Reducing IRF PPS payments for hip and knee replacement therapy. Most of the budget proposals require Congressional action, and we cannot predict what action, if any, Congress will take. PRIVATE INSURANCE Managed Care We currently have thousands of managed care contracts with various health maintenance organizations ("HMOs") and preferred provider organizations ("PPOs"). HMOs generally maintain a full service health care delivery network comprised of physician, hospital, pharmacy and ancillary service providers that HMO members must access through an assigned "primary care" physician. The members care is then managed by his or her primary care physician and other network providers in accordance with the HMOs quality assurance and utilization review guidelines so that appropriate health care can be efficiently delivered in the most cost effective manner. HMOs typically provide no benefit or reimbursement to their members who use non contracted health care providers. PPOs generally offer limited benefits to members who use non contracted health care providers. PPO members who use contracted health care providers receive a preferred benefit, typically in the form of lower co payments or deductibles. As employers and employees have demanded more choice, managed care plans have developed hybrid products that combine elements of both HMO and PPO plans. The amount of our net patient revenue under managed care contracts during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $4.7 billion, $4.8 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, and is anticipated to be approximately $5 billion for our continuing operations in 2006. Approximately 38% of our managed care net patient revenues during 2005 were derived from our top five managed care payers. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, approximately 58% and 55%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable related to continuing operations were due from managed care payers. 58 The table below shows the managed care admissions by type for our general hospitals, expressed as percentages of total managed care admissions: Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 Non governmental 65.1 % 67.6 % Governmental 34.9 % 32.4 % A majority of our managed care contracts are "evergreen" contracts. Evergreen contracts extend automatically every year, but may be renegotiated or terminated by either party after giving 90 to 120 days notice. National payers generate in excess of 39% of our total net managed care revenues, although these agreements are often negotiated on a local or regional basis. The remainder comes from regional or local payers. In the past year, we renewed or renegotiated 80% of the managed care revenues anticipated for the year. Generally, managed care plans prefer fixed, predictable rates in their contracts with health care providers. Managed care plans seeking to pay fixed and predictable rates frequently pay for hospital services on a capitation, DRG or per diem basis. Capitation is the least common of the three fixed payment methods. Under capitation, the hospital is paid a fixed amount per HMO member each month for all the hospital care of a specific group of members. Managed care plans also pay hospitals a fixed fee based upon the DRG assigned to each patient. The DRG is a health care industry code that is based upon the patients diagnosis at time of discharge. HMOs and PPOs may also reimburse hospitals on a "per day" or "per diem" basis. Under a per diem payment arrangement, the hospital is reimbursed a fixed amount for every day of hospital care delivered to a member. Per diem payment arrangements generally represent less financial risk to a hospital than capitation payment arrangements because the amount paid varies with the number of days of care provided to each patient. The financial risk of per diem agreements is further mitigated by the fact that most contracts with per diem payment arrangements also contain some form of "stop loss" provision that allows for higher reimbursement rates in difficult medical cases where the hospitals billed charges exceed a certain threshold amount. The majority of our managed care contracts are per diem and DRG contracts with stop loss payment components as well. We have been working to transition key managed care payers to contracts that use fixed, predictable market based per diems and or DRG methodology and that are less dependent on stop loss payments, and that provide for market based rate escalators and terms and conditions designed to help us reduce our provision for doubtful accounts. In the past, our managed care policy was developed and implemented almost exclusively at the local hospital or regional level. However, we now have a team at the corporate level to develop a strategy to support our hospitals in their managed care relationships and provide a more consistent message to payers that will focus on performance management and assessment. Our approach to managed care is built around the development of key competencies in the following areas: (1) strategy, policy and initiatives; (2) individualized key payer strategies; (3) managed care economics; (4) regional contracting support for our hospital regions; and (5) centralized data base management, which enhances our ability to effectively model contract terms and conditions for negotiations, and improves the efficiency and accuracy of our billing procedures. Indemnity An indemnity based agreement generally requires the insurer to reimburse an insured patient for health care expenses after those expenses have been incurred by the patient, subject to an increasing number of policy conditions and exclusions. Unlike an HMO member, a patient with indemnity insurance is free to control his or her utilization of health care and selection of health care providers. 59 SELF PAY PATIENTS Self pay patients are patients who do not qualify for government programs payments, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and who do not have some form of private insurance, and are, therefore, responsible for their own medical bills. A significant portion of our self pay patients is being admitted through our hospitals emergency departments and often require high acuity treatment. High acuity treatment is more costly to provide and, therefore, results in higher billings, which are the least collectible of all accounts. We believe our level of self pay patients has been higher in the last two years than previous periods due to a combination of broad economic factors, including reductions in state Medicaid budgets, increasing numbers of individuals and employers who choose not to purchase insurance, and an increased burden of co payments and deductibles to be made by patients instead of insurers. Self pay accounts pose significant collectibility problems. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, approximately 6% and 8%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable related to continuing operations are due from self pay patients. The decrease in this percentage is attributable to a higher number of accounts under our Compact. The majority of our provision for doubtful accounts relates to self pay patients. We are taking multiple actions in an effort to mitigate the effect on us of the high level of uninsured patients and the related economic impact. These initiatives include conducting detailed reviews of intake procedures in hospitals facing the greatest pressures, and enhancing and updating intake best practices for all of our hospitals. Hospital specific reports detailing collection rates by type of patient were developed to help the hospital management teams better identify areas of vulnerability and opportunities for improvement. Also, we have completely redesigned our self pay collection workflows, enhanced technology and improved staff training in an effort to increase collections. Over the longer term, several other initiatives we have previously announced should also help address this challenge. For example, our Compact, which is discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, is enabling us to offer lower rates to uninsured patients who historically have been charged standard gross charges. We also provide charity care to patients who are financially unable to pay for the health care services they receive. Most patients who qualify for charity care are charged a per diem amount for services received, subject to a cap. Except for the per diem amounts, our policy is not to pursue collection of amounts determined to qualify as charity care; and, therefore, we do not report these amounts in net operating revenues or in provision for doubtful accounts. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, $616 million, $573 million and $740 million in charity care gross charges were excluded from net operating revenues and provision for doubtful accounts, respectively. 60 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following two tables show a summary of our net operating revenues, operating expenses and operating loss from continuing operations, both in dollar amounts and as percentages of net operating revenues, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: Years ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 Restated(1) Restated(1) Net operating revenues: General hospitals $ 9,411 $ 9,670 $ 9,742 Other operations 203 238 310 Net operating revenues 9,614 9,908 10,052 Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 4,388 4,328 4,238 Supplies 1,774 1,724 1,602 Provision for doubtful accounts 698 1,202 1,135 Other operating expenses 2,183 2,215 2,128 Depreciation 352 368 360 Amortization 30 20 20 Impairment and restructuring charges 266 1,284 1,393 Loss from hurricanes and related costs 55 Costs of litigation and investigations 212 74 282 Loss from early extinguishment of debt 15 13 Operating loss $ (359 ) $ (1,320 ) $ (1,106 ) Years ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 Restated(1) Restated(1) (% of Net Operating Revenues) Net operating revenues: General hospitals 97.9 % 97.6 % 96.9 % Other operations 2.1 % 2.4 % 3.1 % Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 45.6 % 43.7 % 42.2 % Supplies 18.4 % 17.4 % 15.9 % Provision for doubtful accounts 7.2 % 12.1 % 11.3 % Other operating expenses 22.7 % 22.4 % 21.2 % Depreciation 3.7 % 3.7 % 3.6 % Amortization 0.3 % 0.2 % 0.2 % Impairment and restructuring charges 2.8 % 13.0 % 13.8 % Loss from hurricanes and related costs 0.6 % % % Costs of litigation and investigations 2.2 % 0.7 % 2.8 % Loss from early extinguishment of debt 0.2 % 0.1 % % Operating loss (3.7 )% (13.3 )% (11.0 )% (1)The years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were restated as a result of the adjustments described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 61 Net operating revenues of our continuing general hospitals include inpatient and outpatient revenues, as well as nonpatient revenues (primarily rental income, management fee revenue and income from services such as cafeterias, gift shops and parking) and other miscellaneous revenue. Net operating revenues of other operations consist primarily of revenues from (1) physician practices, (2) rehabilitation hospitals and long term care facilities located on or near the same campuses as our general hospitals and (3) equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates that are not directly associated with our general hospitals. Net operating revenues from our other operations were $203 million, $238 million and $310 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, included in our net operating revenues, were $11 million, $15 million and $16 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As we continue to focus on our general hospital operations, the revenue attributable to our other operations may decrease. The table below shows certain selected historical operating statistics for all of our continuing general hospitals: Years ended December 31 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) 2003 Restated(1) Restated(1) (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Patient Day, Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net inpatient revenues(2) $ 6,492 $ 6,536 (0.7 )% $ 6,464 Net outpatient revenues(2) $ 2,785 $ 2,999 (7.1 )% $ 3,148 Number of general hospitals (at end of period) 69 69 (3) 67 Licensed beds (at end of period) 17,863 17,902 (0.2 )% 17,771 Average licensed beds 17,889 17,861 0.2 % 17,772 Utilization of licensed beds(4) 52.7 % 54.5 % (1.8 )%(3) 55.5 % Patient days 3,443,777 3,565,672 (3.4 )% 3,598,270 Equivalent patient days(5) 4,826,715 4,971,498 (2.9 )% 4,998,583 Net inpatient revenue per patient day $ 1,885 $ 1,833 2.8 % $ 1,796 Admissions(6) 668,587 687,857 (2.8 )% 697,588 Equivalent admissions(5) 944,328 967,138 (2.4 )% 977,078 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,710 $ 9,502 2.2 % $ 9,266 Average length of stay (days) 5.2 5.2 (3) 5.2 Surgeries 484,105 493,397 (1.9 )% 515,198 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 539 $ 529 1.9 % $ 532 Outpatient visits 5,164,801 5,664,357 (8.8 )% 5,919,981 (1)Net inpatient revenues for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were restated as a result of the adjustments described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The related statistics have been restated as well. (2)Net inpatient revenues and net outpatient revenues are components of net operating revenues. (3)The change is the difference between 2005 and 2004 amounts shown. (4)Utilization of licensed beds represents patient days divided by average licensed beds divided by number of days in the period. (5)Equivalent admissions/patient days represents actual admissions/patient days adjusted to include outpatient services by multiplying actual admissions/patient days by the sum of gross inpatient revenues and outpatient revenues and dividing the result by gross inpatient revenues. (6)Self pay admissions represented 3.8% and 3.6% of total admissions for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The table below shows certain selected operating statistics for our continuing general hospitals on a same hospital basis. Our hospitals in the Gulf Coast area that were operationally impacted by 62 Hurricane Katrina (see Key Developments above) are excluded from same hospital statistics for all periods presented. Centennial Medical Center and St. Francis Hospital Bartlett, which both opened in June 2004, are excluded from same hospital statistics for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004, but are included for the six months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 in the periods presented below. Years ended December 31 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) Restated(1) (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Patient Day, Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net inpatient revenues $ 6,178 $ 6,155 0.4 % Net outpatient revenues $ 2,635 $ 2,806 (6.1 )% Number of general hospitals (at end of period) 63 63 Average licensed beds 16,504 16,557 (0.3 )% Patient days 3,248,097 3,320,069 (2.2 )% Net inpatient revenue per patient day $ 1,902 $ 1,854 2.6 % Admissions 634,026 644,844 (1.7 )% Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,744 $ 9,545 2.1 % Average length of stay (days) 5.1 5.1 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 544 $ 532 2.3 % Outpatient visits 4,848,144 5,279,331 (8.2 )% (1)Net inpatient revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 were restated as a result of the adjustments described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The related statistics have been restated as well. REVENUES During the year ended December 31, 2005, net operating revenues from continuing operations were lower than in the year ended December 31, 2004. For the current year, net operating revenues decreased approximately $294 million or 3.0%. Of this decline, 48%, or approximately $141 million, was attributable to the disruption in operations at our Gulf Coast hospitals and imaging centers beginning in September 2005 due to Hurricane Katrina. Net operating revenues were also impacted by the discounts recorded on self pay accounts under our Compact. Total discounts, which reduced net operating revenues, for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were $718 million and $277 million, respectively. On a same hospital basis, outpatient visits, patient days and admissions were lower during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 by 8.2%, 2.2% and 1.7%, respectively. Approximately half of the lost outpatient volume during the current year is attributable to the sale of certain home health agencies, hospices and clinics and approximately half of the lost inpatient volume is attributable to our non acute hospital units, including those skilled nursing and rehabilitation units that were closed subsequent to September 30, 2004. In addition, we believe the following factors continue to contribute to the overall decline in our inpatient and outpatient volume levels: (1) loss of patients to competing health care providers; (2) challenges in physician recruitment, retention and attrition; (3) contentious managed care contract negotiations or, in some cases, terminations; and (4) unfavorable publicity about us as a result of lawsuits and government investigations, which impacts our relationships with physicians and patients. Same hospital net inpatient revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were $6.178 billion and $6.155 billion, respectively. There are various positive and negative factors impacting net inpatient revenues that have offsetting effects. 63 The positive factors are as follows: Improved managed care pricing as a result of contracts renegotiated in 2005, negated somewhat by the reduction in stop loss payments from $543 million in the prior year to $410 million in the current year; Favorable net adjustments for valuation allowance and prior year cost report settlements, primarily related to Medicare and Medicaid, in the current year of $22 million versus an unfavorable net adjustment in the prior year of $40 million; and $92 million in Medicaid disproportionate share payments in the current year versus $78 million in the prior year. The negative factors are as follows: Lower overall volumes; An overall shift in our managed care patient mix towards plans with lower levels of reimbursement, including (1) national payers whose contract terms generate lower yields; and (2) managed care Medicare and Medicaid insurance plans, which generate a lower yield than commercial managed care plans; and Compact discounts of $351 million in the current year versus $136 million in the prior year, resulting in lower net inpatient revenue and a reduction in net inpatient revenue per patient day and per admission. Same hospital net outpatient revenues during the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased 6.1% compared to last year. Net outpatient revenues were also negatively impacted by the implementation of the Compact. During the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately $326 million in discounts were recorded on outpatient self pay accounts under the Compact, compared to discounts of $121 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. As previously mentioned, same hospital outpatient visits also decreased 8.2% for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the prior year, due primarily to the sale or closure of certain home health agencies, hospices and clinics beginning in the second quarter of 2004. These businesses typically generate lower revenue per visit amounts than other outpatient services. The reduction in home health visits, coupled with an increase in emergency room visits and outpatient surgeries, contributed to an overall increase in our net outpatient revenue per visit. SALARIES, WAGES AND BENEFITS Salaries, wages and benefits expense as a percentage of net operating revenues increased for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. The increases in salaries, wages and benefits expense during this period can be attributed to the wage and benefit pressures created by the current nursing shortage in many of our markets, state mandated nurse staffing ratios, standard merit and market increases for our employees, increased labor union activity at certain of our hospitals, our lower net operating revenues in 2005, which was due in part to the discounting of self pay accounts under the Compact, described above, and lower volume levels. A decline in patient volumes that reduces net operating revenues increases the percentage as a result of certain fixed staffing costs that are not reduced when volumes decrease. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant salary, wage and benefit pressures created by the nursing shortage throughout the country. In addition, approximately 17% of our employees were represented by labor unions as of December 31, 2005. As union activity increases at our hospitals, our salaries, wages and benefits expense is likely to increase more rapidly than our net operating revenues. In 2006, labor union contracts that cover approximately 11% of our employees will expire; however, new contracts are expected to be negotiated consistent with our existing agreements, 64 which include no strike clauses, provide a framework for pre negotiated salaries, wages and benefits, and streamline the contract negotiation process. The new contracts are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Labor costs remain a significant cost pressure facing us as well as the health care industry in general. The national nursing shortage continues and remains more serious in key specialties and in certain geographic areas than others, including several areas in which we operate hospitals. This has increased labor costs for nursing personnel. In addition, state mandated nurse staffing ratios in California affect not only our labor costs, but if we are unable to hire the necessary number of nurses to meet the required ratios, they may also cause us to limit patient admissions with a corresponding adverse effect on net operating revenues. Included in salaries, wages and benefits expense in the year ended December 31, 2005 is $48 million of stock compensation expense, which decreased $52 million from the $100 million of expense in the year ended December 31, 2004 due to vesting of options with a higher fair value per share, and an adjustment in our pension and supplemental retirement liabilities that reduced expense by $31 million. SUPPLIES Supplies expense as a percentage of net operating revenues increased for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. The increase in supplies expense was primarily attributable to higher pharmaceutical, pacemaker, orthopedic and implants supply costs. In the case of pacemakers and implants, the higher costs are associated primarily with new products or technology used to provide a higher quality of care to our patients, whereas the higher orthopedic costs primarily reflect inflation of prices. Higher pharmaceutical costs reflect a combination of new products and inflation. In addition, further contributing to the percentage increase was the decline in net operating revenues due to discounting of self pay accounts under the Compact described above. We strive to control supplies expense through product standardization, contract compliance, improved utilization, and operational improvements that should minimize waste. The items of current cost reduction focus include cardiac stents and pacemakers, orthopedic implants and high cost pharmaceuticals. We also utilize the group purchasing and supplies management services of Broadlane, Inc., a company in which we currently hold a 47% interest. Broadlane offers group purchasing procurement strategy, outsourcing and e commerce services to the health care industry. PROVISION FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The provision for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net operating revenues decreased for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004, primarily due to the implementation of the Compact in June 2004 and a charge of $196 million in June 2004 when we changed how we estimated the net realizable value of self pay accounts. Prior to implementation of the discounting provisions under the Compact, the vast majority of these accounts were ultimately recognized to be uncollectible and, as a result, were then recorded in our provision for doubtful accounts. By offering managed care style discounts, we are charging the uninsured more affordable rates, whereby they may be better able to meet their financial obligations to pay for services we provide them. The discounts recorded as contractual allowances during the year ended December 31, 2005 for all hospitals were approximately $718 million, compared to $277 million in 2004. However, we do not expect the Compact to have a material effect on the net economic impact of treating self pay patients. The majority of our provision for doubtful accounts still relates to self pay patients. Collection of accounts receivable has been a key area of focus, particularly over the past two years, as we have experienced adverse changes in our business mix. Our current estimated collection rate on self pay accounts, which includes co payments and deductibles to be made by patients, is approximately 25%, 65 including collections from point of service through collections by our in house collection agency or external collection vendors. This self pay collection rate now includes payments made by patients, including co payments and deductibles paid by patients with insurance, prior to an account being classified and assigned to our in house self pay collection group. Previous disclosures did not include these payments because the amounts were paid prior to the account being assigned to our in house collection agency. The comparable self pay collection percentage as of December 31, 2004 was approximately 22%. Payment pressure from managed care payers has also affected our provision for doubtful accounts. We continue to experience ongoing managed care payment delays and disputes; however, we are working with these payers to obtain adequate and timely reimbursement for our services. In the second quarter of 2005, bad debt expense included a positive adjustment of approximately $34 million to reduce bad debt expense for disputed managed care receivables that were ultimately settled. As a result of these settlements, a corresponding adjustment was recorded to increase contractual allowances, which reduced net operating revenues by approximately $30 million. Our current estimated collection rate on managed care accounts is approximately 96%, which includes collections from point of service through collections by our in house collection agency or external collection vendors. The comparable managed care collection percentage as of December 31, 2004 was approximately 95%. As of December 31, 2005, we had a cumulative total of patient account assignments dating back at least three years or older of approximately $4.5 billion related to our continuing operations being pursued by our in house and outside collection agencies or vendors. These accounts have already been written off and are not included in our receivables or in the allowance for doubtful accounts; however, an estimate of future recoveries from all the accounts in collection is determined based on our historical experience and recorded in accounts receivable. Our accounts receivable days outstanding ("AR Days") from continuing operations increased to 59 days at December 31, 2005, compared to 57 days at December 31, 2004. AR Days at December 31, 2005 is within our target of below 60 days. This amount is calculated as our accounts receivable from continuing operations on that date divided by our revenue from continuing operations for the quarter ended on that date divided by the number of days in the quarter. The increase in AR Days reflects a lower net revenue per day due to additional discounts provided under the Compact and lower net revenue during the fourth quarter at our Gulf Coast hospitals. We manage our provision for doubtful accounts using hospital specific goals and benchmarks such as (1) total cash collections, (2) point of service cash collections and (3) accounts receivable aging. The following tables present the approximate aging by payer of our continuing operations net accounts receivable of $1.581 billion and $1.607 billion, excluding cost report settlements payable and valuation allowances of $94 million and $118 million, at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively: December 31, 2005 Medicare Medicaid Managed Care Indemnity, Self Pay and Other Total 0 60 days 95 % 63 % 71 % 46 % 68 % 61 120 days 4 % 23 % 18 % 14 % 16 % 121 180 days 1 % 14 % 9 % 8 % 8 % Over 180 days % % 2 % 32 % 8 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 66  December 31, 2004 Medicare Medicaid Managed Care Indemnity, Self Pay and Other Total 0 60 days 93 % 64 % 74 % 47 % 72 % 61 120 days 6 % 23 % 15 % 18 % 15 % 121 180 days 1 % 13 % 7 % 9 % 7 % Over 180 days % % 4 % 26 % 6 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Patient advocates from our Medical Eligibility Program ("MEP") screen patients in the hospital and determine potential linkage to financial assistance programs. They also expedite the process of applying for these government programs. Receivables from patients who are potentially eligible for Medicaid are classified as Medicaid pending, under our MEP, with appropriate contractual allowances recorded. Based on recent trends, approximately 74% of all accounts in our MEP are ultimately approved for benefits under a government program such as Medicaid. The following table shows the approximate amount of net accounts receivable in our MEP, still awaiting determination of eligibility under a government program at December 31, 2005 and 2004, by aging category: December 31 2005 2004(2) 0 60 days $ 65 $ 39 61 120 days 18 14 121 180 days 8 7 Over 180 days(1) Total $ 91 $ 60 (1)Includes accounts receivable of $10 million and $8 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, that are fully reserved. (2)The December 31, 2004 balances exclude amounts approved for Medicaid, that had not yet been paid, to be comparable with the December 31, 2005 balances. We continue to focus on initiatives to improve cash flow, which include improving the process for collecting receivables, pursuing timely payments from all payers, and standardizing and improving contract terms, billing systems and the patient registration process. We continue to review, and adjust as necessary, our methodology for evaluating the collectibility of our accounts receivable, and we may incur additional future charges resulting from the above described trends. We are taking numerous actions to address specifically the level of uninsured patients. These initiatives include conducting detailed reviews of intake procedures in hospitals facing these pressures, and introducing intake best practices to all of our hospitals. We have redesigned our self pay collection workflows, enhanced technology and improved staff training in an effort to increase collections. Our implementation of our previously announced three year plan to consolidate billing and collection activities, which was modified in February 2004 to exclude certain hospitals that already have equally effective hospital based business office operations, is substantially complete and includes approximately 78% of our continuing general hospitals. We are beginning to experience improved performance from this initiative and anticipate continued improvement with enhanced efficiencies. We also continue to benchmark the performance of the regional business offices with the performance of the hospital based business offices to determine the need for additional consolidation of collection activities. Since the modified plan in February 2004, we have consolidated an additional four acute care hospitals and one rehabilitation hospital. In addition, our previously announced initiative to standardize 67 patient accounting systems is substantially complete with all but one location standardized, which should allow us to obtain better operational data at a consolidated level and provide us with tools to more quickly diagnose and address business mix shifts and the related impact on our provision for doubtful accounts. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Other operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $2.183 billion, $2.215 billion and $2.128 billion, respectively, which was 22.7%, 22.4% and 21.2%, respectively, of net operating revenue for those years. Other operating expenses includes malpractice expense of $228 million, $254 million and $239 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The decrease in 2005 is due to lower volumes and improved loss development coupled with higher 2004 costs reflecting adverse loss development and a change in the maturity composite rate from the Federal Reserve 10 year composite rate to the Federal Reserve seven year composite rate that resulted from a change in our claims payment patterns. Also included in other operating expenses in the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 is $10 million and $25 million, respectively, of net gains on sales of equipment and other assets, including a net gain of approximately $18 million in 2004 from the sale of certain home health agencies and hospices. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS AND GOODWILL AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES During the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded impairment and restructuring charges of $266 million, including the impairment of long lived assets of $260 million, which includes a net charge of $93 million due to damage at our Gulf Coast and Florida hospitals and imaging centers caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma and $167 million of write downs of long lived assets to their estimated fair values, primarily due to the adverse current and anticipated future financial trends at twelve of our hospitals. This compares to impairment and restructuring charges of $1.284 billion and $1.393 billion for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail of these charges, reversal of reserves and related liabilities. The significant charges in 2004 and 2003 are primarily due to the impairment of goodwill in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"). During 2003, we recorded a charge of $1.122 billion, primarily related to our California region and our then Central Northeast region, and in the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded a charge of $1.113 billion related to our Texas Gulf Coast and Florida Alabama regions. The goodwill impairment charge in 2004 is the result of a lower estimated fair value due to adverse industry and company specific challenges that continue to affect our operating results, such as reduced patient volumes, high levels of bad debt expense related to uninsured and underinsured patients, the shift of our managed care business to contracts that provide lower reimbursement, and continued pressure on labor and supply costs. The goodwill impairment charges in 2003 were the result of a comprehensive review of the near term and long term prospects for each of our hospitals and an impairment test performed in connection with the restructuring of our operating divisions and regions in 2003, along with a realignment of our executive team and other factors, that changed our goodwill "reporting units," as defined under SFAS 142. We estimated the fair value of the goodwill based on independent appraisals, established market values of comparable assets, or internal estimates of future net cash flows. Based on future financial trends and the possible impact of negative trends on our future outlook, further impairments of long lived assets and goodwill may occur, and we will incur additional restructuring charges. Future restructuring of our regions that changes our goodwill reporting units could also result in further impairments of our goodwill. 68 COSTS OF LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATIONS Costs of litigation and investigations in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $212 million compared to $74 million and $282 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The 2005 expenses consisted primarily of $140 million for the net settlement of securities and derivative lawsuits, $7 million in final settlement of matters related to Redding Medical Center, $7 million to settle the Florida Attorney General matters, and legal and other costs to defend ourselves in other ongoing lawsuits, in particular the Alvarado trial and the SEC investigation. (See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) Costs of litigation and investigations in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2004 consisted primarily of (1) a $30 million accrual of an estimated liability to address the potential resolution of a number of the civil lawsuits arising out of pricing strategies at facilities owned or formerly owned by our subsidiaries and (2) costs to defend ourselves in various lawsuits, in particular the Alvarado trial. Costs of litigation and investigations for the year ended December 31, 2003 consisted primarily of: (1)A $152 million charge recorded for an award of contract damages by a California appellate court to a former executive in connection with our alleged failure to provide certain incentive stock awards to the executive. This charge includes post judgment interest through December 31, 2003 and attorneys fees and costs. On February 18, 2004, the California Supreme Court declined to review the appellate courts decision. We paid $163.3 million to the former executive on March 1, 2004 in satisfaction of the final judgment. (2)$54 million paid for the settlement of the Redding Medical Center investigation. (3)An aggregate of $30.2 million, which was accrued as of December 31, 2003 and paid during 2004, for the settlement of the United States Ex Rel. Barbera v. Amisub (North Ridge Hospital), Inc. lawsuit and the settlement of the transfer discharge investigation. The remaining costs in 2003 were for other miscellaneous settlements and costs to defend ourselves. LOSS FROM EARLY EXTINGUISHMENT OF DEBT In connection with the early redemption of senior notes in February 2005, we recorded a $15 million loss on extinguishment of debt, representing premiums paid and the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs. A loss on extinguishment of debt of $13 million was recorded in 2004 in connection with the repurchase of senior notes and the termination of our credit agreement. These losses primarily reflect the write off of debt issuance costs, discounts and unamortized hedging losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss. OPERATING LOSS Operating loss in the year ended December 31, 2005 was lower compared to 2004 due to lower provision for doubtful accounts and lower impairment and restructuring charges, partially offset by a higher litigation costs and lower revenues. Operating expenses were 103.7% of net operating revenues in the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 113.3% in 2004 and 111.0% in 2003. As a percentage of net operating revenues, lower provision for doubtful accounts, malpractice expense and impairment and restructuring charges during 2005 were partially offset by higher costs of litigation and investigations and slightly higher salaries, wages and benefits expense. INTEREST EXPENSE The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004 was largely attributable to the issuance of $1 billion and $800 million of senior notes in June 2004 and 69 January 2005, respectively, and the partial use of the proceeds to retire lower rate debt with maturity dates in 2006 and 2007. (See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) NET GAINS ON SALES OF FACILITIES, LONG TERM INVESTMENTS AND SUBSIDIARY COMMON STOCK The $4 million of net gains in the year ended December 31, 2005 related primarily to the reduction of reserve estimates associated with hospitals sold in prior years. The $7 million of net gains in the year ended December 31, 2004 related primarily to our sale of investments in various health care ventures and reduction of reserves associated with hospitals sold in prior years. The $16 million of net gains in the year ended December 31, 2003 related primarily to our sale of a portion of our common stock in Broadlane, Inc. and collection of certain notes receivable associated with hospitals sold in prior years that had been previously reserved for in earlier periods. INCOME TAX (EXPENSE) BENEFIT The income tax benefit of $87 million, on a pre tax loss of $708 million, in the year ended December 31, 2005, included an increase in the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets of $218 million and a reduction in the estimated exposures for audit contingencies of $38 million. We established a valuation allowance in the fourth quarter of 2004 as a result of assessing the realization of our deferred tax assets based on the fact that we incurred significant impairment charges, legal settlements and continued adverse results of operations, combined with having a cumulative loss for the three year period ended December 31, 2004, which is considered "negative evidence" under SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS 109"). We concluded that, as a result of this negative evidence, SFAS 109 precludes us from relying upon our forecasts of future income for the purpose of supporting the realization of the deferred tax assets under the more likely than not standard. Income tax expense of $286 million, on a pre tax loss of $1.623 billion, in the year ended December 31, 2004 included a portion of the impact of establishing the $789 million valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets during the fourth quarter of 2004. Approximately $586 million of the valuation allowance was recorded as income tax expense in continuing operations and $203 million was recorded as income tax expense in discontinued operations. Also included in income tax expense was the $268 million impact of the non deductibility of certain asset impairment charges. Income tax benefit of $274 million, on a pre tax loss of $1.394 billion, in the year ended December 31, 2003 included the $229 million impact of the non deductibility of certain asset impairment charges. PRO FORMA INFORMATION In light of the additional charges to provision for doubtful accounts recorded in the quarters ended September 30, 2003 and June 30, 2004 related to the change in how we estimated the net realizable value of self pay accounts and the discounts for uninsured patients phased in under the Compact, beginning in the second quarter of 2004, we are supplementing certain historical information with information presented on a pro forma basis as if we had recorded no additional provision for doubtful accounts and had not implemented the discounts under the Compact during the periods indicated. This information includes numerical measures of our historical performance that have the effect of depicting such measures of financial performance differently from that presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the United States and that are defined under SEC rules as "non GAAP financial measures." We believe that the information presented on this pro forma basis is important to our shareholders in order to show the effect that these items had on elements of our historical results of operations and provide important insight into our operations in terms of other underlying business trends, without necessarily 70 estimating or suggesting their effect on our future results of operations. This supplemental information has inherent limitations because the additional provision for doubtful accounts recorded during the quarters ended September 30, 2003 and June 30, 2004 and discounts under the Compact during the periods presented are not indicative of future periods. We compensate for these inherent limitations by also utilizing comparable GAAP measures. In spite of the limitations, we find the supplemental information useful to the extent it better enables us and our investors to evaluate bad debt trends and other expense line items, and we believe the consistent use of this supplemental information provides us and our investors with reliable period to period comparisons. Costs in our business are largely influenced by volumes and thus are generally analyzed as a percent of net operating revenues, so we provide this additional analytical information to better enable investors to measure expense categories between periods. Based on requests by certain shareholders, we believe that our investors find these non GAAP measures useful as well. The tables that follow illustrate certain actual operating expenses as a percent of net operating revenues, net inpatient revenue per admission and net outpatient revenue per visit for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, as if we had recorded no additional provision for doubtful accounts in the second quarter of 2004 and the third quarter of 2003 and had not implemented the discounts under the Compact during the periods indicated. The tables also illustrate same hospital net inpatient revenue per admission and same hospital net outpatient revenue per visit adjusted as described above for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Our hospitals and imaging centers in the Gulf Coast area that were operationally impacted by Hurricane Katrina (see Key Developments) are excluded from same hospital statistics for all periods presented. Centennial Medical Center and St. Francis Hospital Bartlett, which both opened in June 2004, are excluded from same hospital statistics for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004, but are included for the six months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. The tables include reconciliations of GAAP measures to non GAAP measures. Investors are encouraged, however, to use GAAP measures when evaluating our financial performance. 71 Year ended December 31, 2005 GAAP Amounts Compact Adjustment Non GAAP Amounts (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net operating revenues $ 9,614 $ 718 $ 10,332 Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 4,388 4,388 Supplies 1,774 1,774 Provision for doubtful accounts 698 661 1,359 Other operating expenses 2,183 2,183 As a percent of net operating revenues Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 45.6 % 42.5 % Supplies 18.4 % 17.2 % Provision for doubtful accounts 7.2 % 13.2 % Other operating expenses 22.7 % 21.1 % Continuing general hospitals Net inpatient revenue $ 6,492 $ 366 $ 6,858 Net outpatient revenue $ 2,785 $ 352 $ 3,137 Admissions 668,587 668,587 Outpatient visits 5,164,801 5,164,801 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,710 $ 547 $ 10,257 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 539 $ 68 $ 607 Same hospital Net inpatient revenue $ 6,178 $ 351 $ 6,529 Net outpatient revenue $ 2,635 $ 326 $ 2,961 Admissions 634,026 634,026 Outpatient visits 4,848,144 4,848,144 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,744 $ 554 $ 10,298 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 544 $ 67 $ 611 72 Year ended December 31, 2004 GAAP Amounts Compact and Bad Debt Adjustments Non GAAP Amounts Restated(1) (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net operating revenues $ 9,908 $ 277 $ 10,185 Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 4,328 4,328 Supplies 1,724 1,724 Provision for doubtful accounts 1,202 59 (2) 1,261 Other operating expenses 2,215 2,215 As a percent of net operating revenues Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 43.7 % 42.5 % Supplies 17.4 % 16.9 % Provision for doubtful accounts 12.1 % 12.4 % Other operating expenses 22.4 % 21.7 % Continuing general hospitals Net inpatient revenue $ 6,536 $ 144 $ 6,680 Net outpatient revenue $ 2,999 $ 133 $ 3,132 Admissions 687,857 687,857 Outpatient visits 5,664,357 5,664,357 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,502 $ 209 $ 9,711 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 529 $ 24 $ 553 Same hospital Net inpatient revenue $ 6,155 $ 136 $ 6,291 Net outpatient revenue $ 2,806 $ 121 $ 2,927 Admissions 644,844 644,844 Outpatient visits 5,279,331 5,279,331 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,545 $ 211 $ 9,756 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 532 $ 23 $ 555 (1)Certain amounts for the year ended December 31, 2004 were restated as a result of the adjustments described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2)Represents a $255 million impact due to the Compact, offset by $196 million of additional provisions for doubtful accounts. 73 Year ended December 31, 2003 GAAP Amounts Bad Debt Adjustment Non GAAP Amounts Restated(1) (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net operating revenues $ 10,052 $ $ 10,052 Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 4,238 4,238 Supplies 1,602 1,602 Provision for doubtful accounts 1,135 (166 ) 969 Other operating expenses 2,128 2,128 As a percent of net operating revenues Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 42.2 % 42.2 % Supplies 15.9 % 15.9 % Provision for doubtful accounts 11.3 % 9.6 % Other operating expenses 21.2 % 21.2 % Continuing general hospitals Net inpatient revenue $ 6,464 $ $ 6,464 Net outpatient revenue $ 3,148 $ $ 3,148 Admissions 697,588 697,588 Outpatient visits 5,919,981 5,919,981 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,266 $ $ 9,266 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 532 $ $ 532 (1)Certain amounts for the year ended December 31, 2003 were restated as a result of the adjustments described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES CASH REQUIREMENTS Our obligations to make future cash payments under contracts, such as debt and lease agreements, and under contingent commitments, such as minimum revenue guarantees and standby letters of credit, are summarized in the table below, all as of December 31, 2005: Years ending December 31 Later Years Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (In Millions) Long term debt(1) $ 8,848 $ 397 $ 382 $ 381 $ 381 $ 381 $ 6,926 Capital lease obligations(1) 25 2 20 1 2 Long term non cancelable operating leases 591 158 141 120 64 33 75 Standby letters of credit 194 194 Guarantees(2) 107 54 23 10 7 5 8 Asset retirement obligations 188 11 177 Purchase orders 437 431 1 1 1 1 2 Total $ 10,390 $ 1,236 $ 578 $ 513 $ 453 $ 420 $ 7,190 (1)Includes interest through maturity date/lease termination. (2)Includes minimum revenue guarantees, primarily related to physicians under relocation agreements and physician groups that provide services at our hospitals, and operating lease guarantees. 74 The standby letters of credit are required principally by our insurers and various states to collateralize our workers compensation programs pursuant to statutory requirements and as security under a selected number of programs to collateralize the deductible and self insured retentions under our professional and general liability insurance programs. The amount of collateral required is principally dependent upon the level of claims activity and our creditworthiness. The insurers require the collateral in case we are unable to meet our obligations to claimants within the deductible or self insured retention layers. The standby letters of credit are issued under our letter of credit facility and are fully collateralized by the $263 million of restricted cash on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Our capital expenditures primarily relate to the design and construction of new buildings, expansion and renovation of existing facilities, including amounts to comply with applicable laws and regulations, equipment and systems additions and replacements, introduction of new medical technologies and various other capital improvements. Capital expenditures were $578 million, $558 million and $833 million in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Included in capital expenditures are costs related to the construction of two new hospitals that opened in 2004, in the amount of $84 million and $80 million in the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We anticipate that our capital expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2006 will be approximately $650 million. These capital expenditures include approximately $6 million in 2006 of the estimated $385 million total required to meet the California seismic requirements by 2012 for our remaining California facilities after all planned divestitures. The estimate does not include any capital expenditures for rebuilding or renovating our Louisiana and Mississippi facilities damaged by Hurricane Katrina in late August 2005 or our Florida hospitals damaged by Hurricane Wilma in late October 2005. At this time, we plan on repairing our existing facilities in New Orleans or constructing new facilities if needed. The cost to repair or construct new facilities has not yet been fully determined, but we believe a significant portion of the cost may be covered by insurance proceeds rather than borrowings. Interest payments, net of capitalized interest, were $357 million, $260 million and $235 million in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We anticipate that our interest payments for the year ending December 31, 2006 will be approximately $380 million. Net income tax payments (refunds), were $(530) million, $46 million and $351 million in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. At December 31, 2005, our carryforwards available to offset future taxable income consisted of (1) federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.188 billion expiring in 2024 and 2025, (2) approximately $6 million in alternative minimum tax credits with no expiration, and (3) general business credit carryforwards of approximately $10 million expiring in 2023 2025. We are currently involved in significant investigations and legal proceedings. (See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for a description of these matters.) Although we cannot presently determine the timing or the amounts of any potential liabilities resulting from the ultimate resolutions of these investigations and lawsuits, we will incur significant costs in defending them and their outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. SOURCES AND USES OF CASH Our liquidity for the year ended December 31, 2005 was derived primarily from proceeds from the sale of new senior notes, cash flows from operating activities, including a $537 million income tax refund, sale of facilities and unrestricted cash on hand. For the year ended December 31, 2004, our liquidity was derived primarily from the sales of facilities and unrestricted cash on hand. 75 During the year ended December 31, 2005, cash generated by our operating activities was $763 million. The primary contributor was the income tax refund of $537 million. The increase from the prior year in cash generated by operations, after considering the income tax refund, is due primarily to lower payments for restructuring and litigation settlements and reduced operating cash requirements related to discontinued operations. During the year ended December 31, 2004, we had a use of cash generated by our operating activities of $82 million. The primary contributors were payments made for unfavorable litigation settlements and payments made against reserves for restructuring charges, which approximated $675 million in total. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $838 million. Our primary source of operating cash is the collection of accounts receivable. As we experience changes in our business mix and as admissions of uninsured patients grow, our operating cash flow is negatively impacted due to lower levels of cash collections and higher levels of bad debt. Net cash proceeds from the sale of new senior notes were $773 million and $954 million in the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and $979 million in the year ended December 31, 2003. We used the proceeds to redeem other long term debt, to retire existing bank loans under our credit agreements at the time and for general corporate purposes. Proceeds from the sales of facilities, long term investments and other assets during 2005, 2004 and 2003 aggregated $173 million, $502 million and $751 million, respectively. Approximately $96 million of the proceeds received in 2003 were invested in an escrow account dedicated to funding costs associated with completing construction at certain of our hospitals. During 2003 and 2004, $8 million and $88 million, respectively, were released to fund construction costs. As of December 31, 2004, there was no balance remaining in the escrow account. Between July 1, 2001 and June 30, 2003, we purchased 48,734,599 shares of our common stock for $1.4 billion, of which $208 million was spent in the year ended December 31, 2003. The repurchases were authorized by our board of directors and are held as treasury stock. We have not made any repurchases since June 30, 2003 and do not intend to repurchase any shares in 2006. We have issued shares to be held by our benefit plan administrator that are reported as treasury shares until released to our employees as a result of restricted stock unit grants, which entitle employees to receive shares of our common stock in the future. DEBT INSTRUMENTS, GUARANTEES AND RELATED COVENANTS In June 2004, we issued $1 billion of 9.875% senior notes due in 2014. The notes are unsecured. A portion of the proceeds were used to repurchase $552 million of senior notes due in 2006 and 2007. In January 2005, we sold $800 million of 9.25% senior notes in a private placement, and, in February 2005, we redeemed our remaining outstanding senior notes of $400 million due in 2006 and 2007. As a result, we have no significant long term debt due until December 2011. The maturities of over 90% of our long term debt now fall between December 2011 and January 2015. An additional $450 million is not due until 2031. On December 31, 2004, we terminated our five year revolving credit agreement and replaced it with a one year letter of credit facility. The new facility provides for the issuance of up to $250 million in letters of credit and does not provide for any cash borrowings. The letter of credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants that, among other requirements, limit (1) liens, (2) consolidations, mergers or the sale of all or substantially all assets unless no event of default exists, (3) subsidiary debt and (4) prepayment of debt. The new facility was initially collateralized by the stock of certain of our subsidiaries and cash equal to 105% of the facility (approximately $263 million reflected as restricted cash on the Consolidated Balance Sheets). In March 2005, the facility was amended to provide for the release of the liens on the stock of our subsidiaries, and on April 19, 2005, the stock certificates were returned to us. All liens were subsequently terminated. In accordance with the amendment, the termination date of the letter of credit facility was extended from December 31, 76 2005 to June 30, 2006. The letter of credit facility was further amended in August 2005 to extend the termination date to June 30, 2008. From time to time, we expect to engage in various capital markets, bank credit and other financing activities depending on our needs and financing alternatives available at that time. (See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) We are currently in compliance with all covenants under our letter of credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes. However, the registration statement relating to an exchange offer for the notes we issued in January 2005 is not yet effective; therefore, starting in January 2006, we are required to pay additional interest until it becomes effective. The additional interest accrues at a rate of 0.25% per annum during the first 90 day period and increases by 0.25% per annum for each subsequent 90 day period until the registration statement becomes effective, up to a maximum rate of 1.0% per annum. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately $194 million of letters of credit outstanding under the letter of credit facility, which was fully collateralized by $263 million of restricted cash. We had approximately $1.373 billion of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 2005 to fund our operations and legal settlements, including $140 million for the net settlement of securities and derivative lawsuits, $7 million in final settlement of matters related to Redding Medical Center and $7 million to settle the Florida Attorney General matters. LIQUIDITY We believe that existing unrestricted cash and cash equivalents on hand, future cash provided by operating activities and, depending on capital market conditions, other borrowings should be adequate to meet known debt service requirements. It should also be adequate to finance planned capital expenditures and other presently known operating needs. However, our cash needs could be materially affected by the deterioration in our results of operations, including the results of those hospital operations impacted by Hurricane Katrina, as well as the various uncertainties discussed in this and other sections and the impact of potential judgments and settlements addressed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. We are aggressively identifying and implementing further actions to reduce costs and enhance our operating performance, including cash flow. Among the areas being addressed are managed care payer contracting, improved procurement efficiencies, cost standardization, bad debt expense reduction initiatives and reducing certain hospital and overhead costs not related to patient care. We believe our restructuring plans and the various initiatives we have undertaken will ultimately position us to report improved operating performance, although that performance may remain somewhat below our hospital management peers because of geographic and other differences in hospital portfolios. We believe it is important for a reader to understand that (1) if our results of operations deteriorate, and or (2) if claims, lawsuits, settlements or investigations are resolved in a materially adverse manner, there could be substantial doubt about our liquidity. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources, except for $301 million of standby letters of credit and guarantees as of December 31, 2005 (shown in the cash requirements table above). The letters of credit are collateralized by $263 million of restricted cash. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See Note 23 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards. 77 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we must use estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates we use. In general, we base the estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, given the particular circumstances in which we operate. Actual results may vary from those estimates. We consider our critical accounting estimates to be those that (1) involve significant judgments and uncertainties, (2) require estimates that are more difficult for management to determine, and (3) may produce materially different outcomes under different conditions or when using different assumptions. Our critical accounting estimates cover the following areas: Recognition of net operating revenues, including contractual allowances. Provisions for doubtful accounts. Accruals for general and professional liability risks. Accrual for litigation losses. Impairment of long lived assets and goodwill. Asset retirement obligations. Accounting for income taxes. Accounting for stock based compensation. REVENUE RECOGNITION We recognize net operating revenues in the period in which services are performed. Net operating revenues consist primarily of net patient service revenues that are recorded based on established billing rates (i.e., gross charges), less estimated discounts for contractual allowances (principally for patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and managed care and other health plans and uninsured patients under the Compact). Revenues under the traditional fee for service Medicare and Medicaid programs are based primarily on prospective payment systems. Discounts for retrospectively cost based revenues, which were more prevalent in earlier periods, and certain other payments, such as disproportionate share, GME, IME and bad debt expense, which are based on our hospitals cost reports, are estimated using historical trends and current factors. Cost report settlements under these programs are subject to audit by Medicare and Medicaid auditors and administrative and judicial review, which can take several years until final settlement of such matters are determined and completely resolved. Because the laws, regulations, instructions and rule interpretations governing Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement are complex and change frequently, the estimates recorded by us could change by material amounts. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2003, we recorded estimates for contractual allowances and cost report settlements based on amounts generated from information accumulated from various accounting and information systems. Adjustments to these accruals were generally made upon the final settlement of Medicare and Medicaid cost reports. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we completed the implementation of a new system and estimation process for recording Medicare net patient revenue and estimated cost report settlements. This resulted in a refinement in recording the accruals to more closely reflect the expected final settlements on our cost reports. For filed cost reports, we now record the accrual based on those cost reports and subsequent activity, and record a valuation allowance against those cost reports based on historical settlement trends. The accrual for periods for which a cost report is yet to be filed is now recorded based on estimates of what we expect to report on the filed cost reports and a corresponding valuation allowance is recorded as previously described. Cost reports must be filed generally within five months after the end of the annual cost report reporting 78 period. After the cost report is filed, the accrual and corresponding valuation allowance may need to be adjusted. Revenues under managed care plans are based primarily on payment terms involving predetermined rates per diagnosis, per diem rates, discounted fee for service rates and or other similar contractual arrangements. These revenues are also subject to review and possible audit by the payers. The payers are billed for patient services on an individual patient basis. An individual patients bill is subject to adjustment on a patient by patient basis in the ordinary course of business by the payers following their review and adjudication of each particular bill. We estimate the discounts for contractual allowances at the individual hospital level utilizing billing data on an individual patient basis. At the end of each month, on an individual hospital basis, we attempt to estimate our expected reimbursement for patients of managed care plans based on the applicable contract terms. These estimates are continuously reviewed for accuracy by taking into consideration known contract terms as well as payment history. Although we do not separately accumulate and disclose the aggregate amount of adjustments to the estimated reimbursements for every patient bill, we believe our estimation and review process enables us to identify instances on a timely basis where such estimates need to be revised. We do not believe there were any adjustments to estimates of individual patient bills that were material to our revenues. In addition, on a corporate wide basis, we do not record any general provision for adjustments to estimated contractual allowances for managed care plans. Revenues related to self pay patients may qualify for a discount under the Compact, whereby the gross charges based on established billing rates would be reduced by an estimated discount for contractual allowance. We believe that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from final determination of amounts earned under all the above arrangements. We know of no material claims, disputes or unsettled matters with any payers that would affect our revenues for which we have not adequately provided for in our Consolidated Financial Statements. PROVISIONS FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS Our policy is to attempt to collect amounts due from patients, including co payments and deductibles due from patients with insurance, at the time of service while complying with all federal and state laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act ("EMTALA"). Generally, as required by EMTALA, patients may not be denied emergency treatment due to inability to pay. Therefore, until the legally required medical screening examination is complete and stabilization of the patient has begun, services are performed prior to the verification of the patients insurance, if any. In non emergency circumstances or for elective procedures and services, it is our policy to verify insurance prior to a patient being treated. We provide for an allowance against accounts receivable that could become uncollectible by establishing an allowance to reduce the carrying value of such receivables to their estimated net realizable value. We estimate this allowance based on the aging of our accounts receivables by hospital, our historical collection experience by hospital and for each type of payer, and other relevant factors. Our practice is to write down self pay accounts receivable, including accounts related to the co payments and deductibles due from patients with insurance, to their estimated net realizable value at the time of billing. Generally, uncollected balances are assigned to our in house collection agency between 120 to 180 days, once patient responsibility has been identified. When accounts are assigned for collections by the hospital, the accounts are completely written off the hospitals books through the provision for doubtful accounts, and an estimated future recovery amount is calculated and recorded as a receivable on the hospitals books at the same time. The estimated future recovery amount is adjusted based on the aging of the accounts and changes to actual recovery rates. The estimated future recovery amount for self pay accounts is gradually written down whereby it is fully reserved if the amount is not paid within two years after the account is assigned to our in house collection agency. 79 Historically, managed care accounts receivable were gradually written down to their estimated net realizable value as they aged through the provision for doubtful accounts and were generally assigned to our in house collection agency after 180 days with an estimated future recovery amount established on the hospitals books at the time of assignment. The estimated future recovery amount is adjusted based on the aging of the accounts and changes to actual recovery rates. The estimated future recovery amount for managed care accounts receivable is gradually written down whereby it is fully reserved if the amount is not paid within two years after the account was assigned to our in house collection agency. Managed care accounts are now collected through our hospital based business offices or regional business offices, whereby the account balances remain in the hospitals billing system and on the hospitals books, and are adjusted based on an analysis of the net realizable value as they age. Managed care accounts collected through our hospital based business offices or regional business offices are gradually written down whereby they are fully reserved if the accounts are not paid within one year. During 2003 and 2004, our procedures for estimating the net realizable value of accounts identified unfavorable trends in collection experience for both self pay and managed care accounts. We believe this trend in self pay is due to a combination of broad economic factors, including unemployment levels, reductions in state Medicaid budgets, increasing numbers of individuals and employers who choose not to purchase insurance, and the increasing burden of co payments and deductibles to be made by patients instead of insurers. Additionally, many of these patients, who delay or do not seek routine medical care because of the costs, are being admitted through the emergency department and often require more costly care, resulting in higher billings, which are the least collectible of all accounts. These factors cause a change in our business mix as admissions of uninsured and underinsured patients grow. Changes in the collectibility of aged managed care accounts receivable are ongoing and impact our provision for doubtful accounts. We continue to experience payment pressure from managed care companies concerning amounts of past billings. We aggressively pursue collection of these accounts receivable using all means at our disposal, including arbitration and litigation, but we may not be successful. ACCRUALS FOR GENERAL AND PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY RISKS We record reserves for professional and general liability claims when they are probable and reasonably estimable. We maintain reserves, which are based on actuarial estimates by an independent third party, for the portion of our professional liability risks, including incurred but not reported claims, to the extent we do not have insurance coverage. Our estimated liability is based on a number of factors, including the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimates of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, the timing of historical payments and risk free discount rates used to determine the present value of future cash flows. Our estimated reserve for professional and general liability claims will change significantly if future claims differ from historical trends. In addition, because of the complexity of the claims, the extended period of time to settle the claims and the wide range of potential outcomes, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. ACCRUALS FOR LITIGATION LOSSES We record reserves for litigation losses in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies" ("SFAS 5"). Under SFAS 5, a loss contingency is recorded if a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. We record probable loss contingencies based on the best estimate of the loss. If a range of loss can be reasonably estimated but no single amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within the range, the minimum amount in the range is accrued. These 80 estimates are often initially developed earlier than when the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are adjusted if additional information becomes known. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS AND GOODWILL We evaluate our long lived assets for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset, or related group of assets, may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. However, there is an evaluation performed at least annually. We base the measurement of the amount of the impairment, if any, on independent appraisals, established market values of comparable assets or internal estimates of future net cash flows expected to result from the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. The estimates of these future cash flows are based on assumptions and projections we believe to be reasonable and supportable. They require our subjective judgments and take into account assumptions about revenue and expense growth rates. These assumptions may vary by type of facility. We report long lived assets to be disposed of at the lower of their carrying amounts or fair values less costs to sell or close. In such circumstances, our estimates of fair value are based on independent appraisals, established market prices for comparable assets or internal estimates of future net cash flows. Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the fair value of assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in purchase business combinations and determined to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but instead are subject to impairment tests performed at least annually. For goodwill, we perform the test at the reporting unit level, as defined by appropriate accounting standards, when events occur that require an evaluation to be performed or at least annually. If we find the carrying value of goodwill to be impaired, or if the carrying value of a business that is to be sold or otherwise disposed of exceeds its fair value, then we reduce the carrying value, including any allocated goodwill, to fair value. Estimates of fair value are based on independent appraisals, established market prices for comparative assets or internal estimates of future net cash flows. ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS We recognize the fair value of a liability for legal obligations associated with asset retirements in the period in which it is incurred, in accordance with SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" ("SFAS 143") and Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations," if a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the obligation can be made. When the liability is initially recorded, we capitalize the cost of the asset retirement obligation by increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost associated with the retirement obligation is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. Upon settlement of the obligation, any difference between the cost to settle the asset retirement obligation and the liability recorded is recognized as a gain or loss in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The calculation of the asset retirement obligation is a critical accounting estimate because factors used in calculating the obligation can change, which could result in larger or smaller estimated obligations that could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The significant assumptions and estimates used in the calculation include the following: Estimated settlement date of the obligation The year when the asset is no longer deemed to have any future useful life, and the facility or asset is closed, or otherwise disposed of, is when final settlement of the obligation is estimated to occur, and is generally based on the remaining years of useful life of our facilities or the expiration of a lease. Changes in demand, competing facilities, economic conditions, technology advancements, state regulations and availability of physicians, nurses and staff can affect the estimated settlement date. 81 Retirement obligation costs Estimated based on our knowledge of the applicable laws and regulations, known facts and circumstances of specific obligations, and cost estimates obtained from industry consultants or our knowledge and past experience. Asbestos presence The estimated amount of asbestos in our facilities was determined by our construction staff based on their knowledge of the architectural state of the facility, the age of the facility and whether any renovation had recently occurred. Due to facilities changing ownership several times and our experience during renovations of inconsistent use of building materials, it cannot be known with certainty the exact amount of asbestos present or the exact location of all asbestos that may need to be remediated. Inflation rate The inflation rate applied to current remediation costs is used to estimate the future value of the remediation costs at the time the retirement obligation is estimated to be settled. We have assumed an inflation rate of 5% based on the nature of the retirement obligations. Discount rate The estimated costs at the anticipated settlement date are discounted back to the year the asset was built or acquired to determine the amount of the obligation when it was incurred. The estimate of the initial obligation has been accreted to the current date in accordance with SFAS 143. The discount rate represents our credit adjusted, risk free rate of interest, which is estimated to be 9.5%. Using these estimates and assumptions, the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle, fixed asset cost, accumulated depreciation and the asset retirement obligation were calculated for each of our facilities that have known asset retirement obligations. Subsequent changes to these assumptions will affect the annual depreciation and accretion expenses. ACCOUNTING FOR INCOME TAXES We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS 109. This approach requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Developing our provision for income taxes and analysis of potential tax exposure items requires significant judgment and knowledge of federal and state income tax laws, regulations and strategies, including the determination of deferred tax assets and liabilities and, if necessary, any valuation allowances that may be required for deferred tax assets. We assess the realization of our deferred tax assets to determine whether an income tax valuation allowance is required. Based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, and the weight of that evidence to the extent such evidence can be objectively verified, we determine whether it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. The main factors that we consider include: cumulative losses in recent years; income/losses expected in future years; unsettled circumstances that, if unfavorably resolved, would adversely affect future operations and profit levels; the availability, or lack thereof, of taxable income in prior carryback periods that would limit realization of tax benefits; the carryforward period associated with the deferred tax assets and liabilities; and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. 82 While we believe we have provided adequately for our income tax receivables or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements, adverse determinations by taxing authorities or changes in tax laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK BASED COMPENSATION We account for the cost of stock based compensation using the fair value method recommended by SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for Stock based Compensation", under which the cost of stock option grants and other incentive awards to employees, directors, advisors and consultants generally is measured by the fair value of the awards on their grant date and is recognized over the vesting periods of the awards, whether or not the awards had any intrinsic value during the period. We estimate the fair value of stock option grants as of the date of each grant, using a Black Scholes option pricing model. This model incorporates our reasoned assumptions regarding (1) the expected volatility of our common stock price, (2) estimated risk free interest rates, and (3) the expected dividend yield, if any, all over the expected lives of the respective options. We do not adjust the model for non transferability, risk of forfeiture or the vesting restrictions of the option all of which would reduce the option value if factored into our calculations. The most critical of the above assumptions in our calculations of fair value is the expected life of an option, because it, in turn, is a principal part of our calculations of expected volatility and interest rates. Accordingly, we reevaluate our estimate of expected life at each major grant date. Our reevaluation is based on recent exercise patterns and is reviewed from time to time by an outside, independent consulting firm.  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The table below presents information about certain of our market sensitive financial instruments as of December 31, 2005. The fair values were determined based on quoted market prices for the same or similar instruments. At December 31, 2005, we had no borrowings subject to or with variable interest rates. Maturity Date, Year ending December 31 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Total Fair Value (Dollars in Millions) Fixed rate long term debt $ 19 $ 22 $ 2 $ 1 $ 1 $ 4,863 $ 4,908 $ 4,614 Average interest rates 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 8.4 % 8.4 % We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage or prepayment features. At December 31, 2005, we had long term, market sensitive investments held by our captive insurance subsidiaries. Our market risk associated with our investments in debt securities classified as non current assets is substantially mitigated by the long term nature and type of the investments in the portfolio. At December 31, 2005, we had no material accumulated unrealized gains or losses. We have no affiliation with partnerships, trusts or other entities (sometimes referred to as special purpose or variable interest entities) whose purpose is to facilitate off balance sheet financial transactions or similar arrangements. Thus, we have no exposure to the financing, liquidity, market or credit risks associated with such entities. 83   
 
