ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION TO MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS The purpose of this section, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, is to provide a narrative explanation of our financial statements that enables investors to better understand our business, to enhance our overall financial disclosures, to provide the context within which financial information may be analyzed, and to provide information about the quality of, and potential variability of, our results of operations and cash flows. Unless otherwise indicated, all financial and statistical information included herein relates to our continuing operations, with dollar amounts expressed in millions (except per share amounts). This information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. It includes the following sections: Executive Overview Sources of Revenue Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Recently Issued Accounting Standards Critical Accounting Estimates EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW KEY DEVELOPMENTS During 2006, we continued to focus on the execution of our turnaround strategies. While we saw certain areas of improvement this year, we are still facing several industry and company specific challenges that continue to negatively affect our progress. We are dedicated to improving our patients, shareholders and other stakeholders confidence in us. We still believe we will do that by providing quality care and generating positive growth and earnings at our hospitals. 29 Key developments include the following events: New Independent Auditor In January 2007, we announced that Deloitte & Touche LLP had been selected by our audit committee as our new independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2007. The engagement of Deloitte & Touche will be submitted for ratification by our shareholders at our May 2007 annual meeting. New Inpatient Tower at USC University Hospital In January 2007, we announced the opening of the Norris Inpatient Tower, a state of the art, $150 million, ten story building connected to our USC University Hospital. The Norris Inpatient Tower will have 146 beds, which significantly expands the hospitals capacity for treating patients with cancer and other life threatening illnesses and supporting advanced medical research. New Ten Year IT Outsourcing Agreement In November 2006, we signed a new contract with Perot Systems Corporation that expands, extends and strengthens the information technology support and management services that Perot Systems has provided for us and our hospitals since 1990. We expect the agreement will enhance our information systems to provide a strong foundation for the introduction of advanced medical information technology designed to further improve quality of care and patient safety at all of our hospitals. The new contract also restructures our previous agreement to better fit our smaller size after recent divestitures. In addition, the agreement provides for the global outsourcing of certain information technology support functions. Aggregate fees under the agreement are expected to be approximately $1.1 billion over the ten year term of the contract. IRS Audit and Settlement In October 2006, we received a Revenue Agents Report related to the recently completed Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit of our tax returns for fiscal years ended May 31, 1998 through the seven month transition period ended December 31, 2002. The report assessed an aggregate tax deficiency of $207 million plus interest ($54 million as of December 31, 2006). Of the $207 million proposed assessment, approximately $125 million is attributable to issues that are not in dispute. After taking into account net operating losses from 2004, which offset a portion of the undisputed tax deficiency, the remaining undisputed amount is reduced to approximately $85 million. We paid this undisputed tax deficiency of $85 million, plus interest thereon of $25 million, in December 2006. In November 2006, we also reached a partial settlement with the IRS related to issues that were in dispute for fiscal years 1995, 1996 and 1997 and paid $80 million as an advance payment of taxes and interest owed under the settlement, with respect to those matters. New Revolving Credit Facility In September 2006, we accepted a commitment from a group of banks for a five year, $800 million senior secured revolving credit facility, which we closed in November 2006, thereby replacing our $250 million letter of credit facility. The revolving credit facility is collateralized by patient accounts receivable, and can be increased to $1 billion depending on the amount of eligible receivables outstanding. Existing letters of credit were transferred into the revolving credit facility, which reduced the amount available for cash borrowings, but eliminated the restriction on $263 million of cash pledged under our prior letter of credit agreement. The new credit facility is subject to customary covenants for an asset backed facility. The covenants include a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio to be met when the available credit under the facility falls below $100 million, as well as limits on debt, liens, asset sales and prepayments of senior debt. Standard & Poors lowered its credit rating on our senior unsecured notes two notches to CCC+ due to the large amount of priority debt that now exists, but changed its outlook on our corporate credit rating from negative to stable, reflecting our recently improved managed care pricing, better expense management, asset divestiture plan and the elimination of key litigation risks. Moodys lowered its credit rating on our unsecured notes one notch to Caa1, but also affirmed the corporate family rating of B3. In addition, Moodys changed the rating outlook on the corporate family rating from negative to stable. Expiration of Operating Leases In August 2006, Metrocrest Hospital Authority announced that another company was selected to manage RHD Memorial Medical Center in Farmers Branch, Texas and Trinity Medical Center in Carrollton, Texas following the expiration of our operating lease. The results of these hospitals will be included in continuing operations until the lease expires in August 2007. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the combined operating loss of these two hospitals was $23 million and $15 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, our investment in the collateralized bonds issued by the local hospital authority was $95 million. Of this amount, $31 million matures in 2007 and $64 million matures in 2010. 30 Settlement Reached over Katrina Insurance Claims In July 2006, we announced a $340 million settlement had been reached with our property insurers regarding claims related to the physical damage and business interruption we sustained as a result of Hurricane Katrina in 2005. We received $240 million in July 2006, in addition to the $100 million previously received, in full resolution of our claims. With the settlement, we have avoided a protracted resolution process fraught with the disagreements and differences over interpretation that can occur in insurance claims of this magnitude and complexity. As provided in our insurance contracts, we have the flexibility to apply these funds to meet our overall capital needs. Global Civil Settlement and Corporate Integrity Agreement In June 2006, we entered into a broad civil settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice and other federal agencies that concluded several previously disclosed governmental investigations, including inquiries into our receipt of certain Medicare outlier payments before 2003, physician financial arrangements and Medicare coding issues. Under the terms of the settlement, we will pay $725 million, plus interest, over a four year period and waive our right to pursue receipt of $175 million in unrecorded Medicare payments for past services. With this global settlement and the previously announced settlements of the criminal case involving Alvarado Hospital Medical Center, civil pricing litigation, a securities lawsuit and shareholder derivative litigation, and several issues with the Florida Attorney General, as well as certain other legal matters, we have now resolved the majority of lawsuits and investigations related to legacy issues that had been ongoing for the past several years. As part of the global settlement, we entered into a five year corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services in September 2006. The agreement requires us to maintain our quality initiatives, compliance program and code of conduct, as well as formalize in writing our policies and procedures in the areas of billing and reimbursement, federal anti kickback and Stark laws, and clinical quality. It also establishes general and specialized training requirements and compliance reviews by independent organizations in the areas of Medicare outlier payments, diagnosis related group claims, unallowable costs, physician financial arrangements and clinical quality systems. Because of the many changes and enhancements we have made in the past three years, we already had in place a number of the procedures and systems called for by the agreement; therefore, we do not anticipate compliance with this agreement to create a significant burden on us or have a material effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Strategic Divestitures In June 2006, we announced our strategic plan to divest 10 general hospitals, primarily to enhance our future profitability, provide funds to expand capital investments at our remaining hospitals and help fund our global civil settlement with the federal government. In addition to Gulf Coast Medical Center in Biloxi, Mississippi, which we sold in June 2006 for estimated net after tax proceeds of $14 million, Alvarado Hospital Medical Center, which we agreed to divest as part of our May 2006 settlement with the U.S. Attorney in San Diego and sold in January 2007 for estimated pretax proceeds of $22 million, and other hospitals currently held for sale or already sold, these 10 hospitals are reported in discontinued operations for all periods presented in this report. The 10 hospitals included: four in the New Orleans area Kenner Regional Medical Center, Lindy Boggs Medical Center, Meadowcrest Hospital and Memorial Medical Center because of uncertainties in the New Orleans market and the need for health care consolidation there in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina; three of our five hospitals in Philadelphia Graduate Hospital, Roxborough Memorial Hospital and Warminster Hospital; and three of our Florida hospitals Hollywood Medical Center, Parkway Regional Medical Center and Cleveland Clinic Hospital. In September 2006, we completed the sale of Kenner Regional Medical Center, Meadowcrest Hospital and Memorial Medical Center. Pretax proceeds are estimated to be approximately $48 million. In addition, the buyer has agreed to reimburse us approximately $8 million for our costs related to the reconstruction of the New Orleans Surgical and Heart Institute on the campus of Memorial Medical Center. Also in September 2006, we completed the sale of our 51% partnership interest in Cleveland Clinic Hospital for pretax proceeds, including the repayment of partnership loans from us, of approximately $90 million. In November 2006, we completed the sale of Hollywood Medical Center for pretax proceeds of approximately $32 million and, in December 2006, we sold Parkway Regional Medical Center for estimated pretax proceeds of approximately $35 million. Discussions and negotiations with potential buyers for the remaining hospitals slated for divestiture are ongoing. Strategic Development of Outpatient Services In May 2006, we announced that we had formed a national strategic development group to focus on our freestanding and hospital based outpatient services and facilities. We currently operate more than 40 imaging and diagnostic centers, more than 20 ambulatory surgery centers and a 31 number of other outpatient facilities. In addition, we have 25 outpatient projects currently in development, most of them on the campuses of our hospitals. The strategic groups goal is to ensure that each of our hospitals and markets is actively pursuing multiple outpatient growth opportunities. SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGES Our June 2006 global civil settlement with the federal government and other previously announced settlements have resolved several material threats to our company and should help us move forward in our turnaround strategy. However, there are still significant challenges, both company specific and industry wide, that will impact the timing of our turnaround. Below is a summary of these items. Company Specific Challenge Volumes We believe the reasons for declines in our volumes include, but are not limited to, decreases in the demand for invasive cardiac procedures, increased competition, physician attrition, managed care contract negotiations or terminations, a declining population in Florida, and the impact of our litigation and government investigations. We are taking a number of steps in addition to the settlement of litigation and government investigations to address the problem of volume decline; however, due to the concentration of our hospitals in California, Florida and Texas, we may not be able to mitigate some factors contributing to volume declines. One of these initiatives is our Physician Sales and Service Program, which is centered around understanding the needs of physicians who admit patients both to our hospitals and to our competitors hospitals and responding to those needs with changes and improvements in our hospitals and operations. We accelerated capital spending for 2006 in order to address specific needs of our hospitals, which is expected to have a positive impact on their volumes. We are also completing clinical service line market demand analysis and profitability assessments to determine which services are highly valued that can be emphasized and marketed to improve results. This Targeted Growth Initiative has resulted in some reductions in unprofitable service lines in several locations, which have had a slightly negative impact on our volumes. However, the elimination of these unprofitable service lines will allow us to focus more resources on services that are highly valued and more profitable. Our Commitment to Quality initiative, which we launched in 2003, should further help position us to competitively meet the volume challenge. We are working with physicians to implement the most current evidence based techniques to improve the way we provide care. Our hospitals have improved substantially in quality metrics reported by the government and have been recognized by several managed care companies for their quality of care. We have seen an increase in admissions for certain service lines at our facilities that have been designated as Centers of Excellence by managed care companies due to their record of quality clinical outcomes. Although Centers of Excellence designations are limited, certain managed care companies are offering attractive financial incentives to their members to encourage the use of Centers of Excellence designated service lines that have consistently achieved improved clinical outcomes. We believe that quality of care improvements will continue to have the effect of increasing physician and patient satisfaction, potentially improving our volumes as a result. Significant Industry Trends Bad Debt Like other organizations in the health care industry, we continue to provide services to a high volume of uninsured patients and more patients than in prior years with an increased burden of co payments and deductibles as a result of changes in their health care plans. Although the discounting components of our Compact have reduced and are expected to continue to reduce our provision for doubtful accounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements, they are not expected to mitigate the net economic effects of treating uninsured or underinsured patients. We continue to experience a high level of uncollectible accounts. Our collection efforts have improved, and we continue to focus, where applicable, on placement of patients in various government programs such as Medicaid. However, unless our business mix shifts toward a greater number of insured patients or the trend of higher co payments and deductibles reverses, we anticipate this high level of uncollectible accounts to continue. Cost Pressures Labor and supply costs remain a significant cost pressure facing us as well as the industry in general. We have slowed the rates of increase in both labor and supply costs and have been able to contain our unit cost growth below the rate of medical inflation. Maintaining this level of cost control in an environment of declining patient volumes and increasing labor union activity will continue to be a challenge. 32 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Our results of operations for the last three years reflect the progress we have made in restructuring our operations to focus on a smaller group of general hospitals. Our turnaround timeframe has been and continues to be influenced by industry trends such as bad debt levels and by company specific challenges, such as decreasing volumes and demand for inpatient cardiac procedures, that continue to negatively affect our revenue growth and operating expenses. Our future profitability depends on volume growth, adequate reimbursement levels and cost control. Results of operations Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005: Net inpatient revenue per patient day and per admission increased by 6.9% and 4.6%, respectively, due primarily to the effect of newly negotiated levels of reimbursement from our managed care contracts, partially offset by additional discounts under the Compact during the phase in process. Patient days were down 4.5% and admissions were down 2.5%. Net outpatient revenue per visit increased 5.1%, while outpatient visits declined 5.2%. The increase in revenue per visit is due primarily to higher Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and the effect of newly negotiated levels of reimbursement from our managed care contracts, partially offset by additional discounts under the Compact during the phase in process. Loss per diluted share from continuing operations of $1.85 in the current year increased from the loss per diluted share of $0.65 in the prior year due primarily to the current years litigation settlements and impairments. Results of operations Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004: Net inpatient revenue per patient day and per admission increased by 2.2% and 1.5%, respectively, due primarily to the effect of newly negotiated levels of reimbursement from our managed care contracts and slightly higher Medicare reimbursement levels, offset by additional discounts under the Compact during the phase in process. Net outpatient revenue per visit increased 2.4%, while outpatient visits declined 7.8%. The increase in revenue per visit is due primarily to higher emergency room volume, a positive shift in payer mix and the sale or closure of certain home health agencies, hospices and clinics, which businesses typically generate lower revenue per visit amounts than other outpatient services, partially offset by additional discounts under the Compact during the phase in process and lower rehabilitation visits. Favorable net adjustments for prior year cost reports and related valuation allowances, related primarily to Medicare and Medicaid, of $44 million in 2005 increased compared to similar favorable adjustments of $3 million in 2004. Cash generated by operating activities was $763 million during 2005 compared to cash used by operations of $82 million during 2004, reflecting an income tax refund of $537 million received in March 2005 and lower restructuring and litigation settlement payments. Loss per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.65 in 2005 decreased from the loss per diluted share of $3.98 in 2004 due primarily to lower impairments. 33 The table below shows the pretax and after tax impact on continuing operations for each of the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 of the following items: Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Expense) Income Change in estimate of provision for doubtful accounts $ $ $ (170 ) Change in prior year liability estimates for retirement plans 14 31 Impairment of long lived assets and goodwill (376 ) (36 ) (1,207 ) Restructuring charges (4 ) (10 ) (48 ) Hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs 14 (13 ) Costs of litigation and investigations (766 ) (212 ) (74 ) Net gains on sales of facilities, long term investments and subsidiary common stock 5 4 7 Loss from early extinguishment of debt (15 ) (13 ) Pretax impact $ (1,113 ) $ (251 ) $ (1,505 ) Reduction in estimated tax exposures, including interest $ 42 $ 24 $ Deferred tax asset valuation allowance $ (140 ) $ (101 ) $ (569 ) Total after tax impact $ (857 ) $ (237 ) $ (1,799 ) Diluted per share impact of above items $ (1.82 ) $ (0.50 ) $ (3.86 ) Diluted loss per share, including above items $ (1.85 ) $ (0.65 ) $ (3.98 ) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OVERVIEW Net cash used in operating activities was $462 million in 2006 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $763 million in 2005. The principal reasons for the change were: an additional $599 million in payments during the current year compared to the prior year for legal settlements and related costs comprised primarily of the June 2006 global civil settlement payment to the federal government ($470 million), the payments in March 2006 in connection with the settlement of a securities class action lawsuit and state shareholder derivative litigation ($145 million) and our February 2006 settlement with the Florida Attorney General ($7 million); an income tax refund of $537 million received in March 2005 compared to $215 million in income tax payments in 2006, primarily for the settlement of prior year audits; an additional $44 million of 401(k) matching contributions due to a full year of contribution matching in the current year compared to six months of contribution matching in the prior year (effective July 1, 2004, we changed to an annual matching of employee 401(k) plan contributions for participants actively employed on December 31, as opposed to matching such contributions each pay period); an additional $19 million of interest expense payments in 2006 due to debt issuances in January 2005; and hurricane insurance recoveries of $161 million in 2006. Proceeds from the sales of facilities, long term investments and other assets during 2006 and 2005 aggregated $244 million and $173 million, respectively. In November 2006, we entered into a five year, $800 million senior secured revolving credit facility, that replaced our $250 million letter of credit facility. The revolving credit facility is collateralized by patient accounts receivable at our acute care and specialty hospitals, and bears interest at our option based on the London Interbank Offered Rate plus 175 basis points or Citigroups base rate, as defined in the credit agreement, plus 75 basis points. After six months from the start of the credit agreement, the interest spread over the London Interbank Offered Rate and Citigroups base rate may be reduced by 25 basis points if our leverage ratio, as defined in the credit agreement, is below the defined threshold. The letters of credit outstanding under our previous letter of credit facility were transferred into the revolving credit facility, which reduced the amount 34 available for cash borrowings, but eliminated the restriction on $263 million of cash pledged under the letter of credit agreement. At December 31, 2006, there were no borrowings under the revolving credit facility. In January 2005, we sold $800 million of 9% senior notes due in 2015. The net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes were approximately $773 million after deducting discounts and related expenses. We used a portion of the proceeds in February 2005 for the early redemption of the remaining $400 million aggregate principal amount outstanding on our senior notes due in 2006 and 2007, and the balance of the proceeds for general corporate purposes. In June 2004, we sold $1 billion of 97/8% senior notes due in 2014. The net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes were approximately $954 million after deducting discounts and related expenses. We used a portion of the proceeds to repurchase $335 million of our senior notes due in 2006, $215 million of our senior notes due in 2007 and $2 million of our senior notes due in 2008. We are currently in compliance with all covenants and conditions in our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes. (See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $190 million of letters of credit outstanding under our revolving credit facility. In addition, we had approximately $784 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents on hand and borrowing capacity of $596 million under our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2006. SOURCES OF REVENUE We receive revenues for patient services from a variety of sources, primarily managed care payers (including preferred provider organizations and health maintenance organizations) and the federal Medicare program, as well as state Medicaid programs, indemnity based health insurance companies and self pay patients (patients who do not have health insurance and are not covered by some other form of third party arrangement). The table below shows the sources of net patient revenues for our general hospitals, expressed as percentages of net patient revenues from all sources: Years ended December 31, Net Patient Revenues from: 2006 2005 2004 Medicare 26.5 % 27.4 % 25.7 % Medicaid 9.0 % 8.4 % 7.5 % Managed care(1) 52.3 % 50.7 % 49.8 % Indemnity, self pay and other 12.2 % 13.5 % 17.0 % (1) Includes Medicare Advantage and Medicaid managed care. The decrease in indemnity, self pay and other net patient revenues since 2004 is due primarily to the implementation of the discounting components of the Compact. Our payer mix on an admissions basis for our general hospitals, expressed as a percentage of total admissions from all sources, is shown below: Years ended December 31, Admissions from: 2006 2005 2004 Medicare 32.2 % 33.5 % 33.7 % Medicaid 13.1 % 13.6 % 13.2 % Managed care(1) 45.9 % 44.6 % 44.8 % Indemnity, self pay and other 8.8 % 8.3 % 8.3 % (1) Includes Medicare Advantage and Medicaid managed care. The increase in managed care admissions since 2005 is due primarily to an overall shift in our patient mix from Medicare and Medicaid to managed Medicare and Medicaid as further discussed below. 35 GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS The Medicare program, the nations largest health insurance program, is administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Medicare is a health insurance program primarily for individuals 65 years of age and older, certain younger people with disabilities, and people with end stage renal disease, and is provided without regard to income or assets. Medicaid is a program that pays for medical and health related services for certain individuals and families with low incomes and resources, and is jointly funded by the federal government and state governments. Medicaid is the largest source of funding for medical and health related services for the nations poorest and most vulnerable populations. These government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease payments from these government programs in the future, as well as affect the cost of providing services to our patients and the timing of payments to our facilities. We are unable to predict the effect of future government health care funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payers are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payers is limited or if we, or one or more of our subsidiaries hospitals, are excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid program or any other government health care program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Medicare Medicare offers beneficiaries different ways to obtain their medical benefits. One option, the Original Medicare Plan, is a fee for service payment system. The other option, called Medicare Advantage (formerly Medicare + Choice), includes managed care, preferred provider organization, private fee for service and specialty plans. The major components of our net patient revenues for services provided to patients enrolled in the Original Medicare Plan for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are set forth in the table below: Years ended December 31, Revenue Descriptions 2006 2005 2004 Diagnosis related group operating $ 1,264 $ 1,290 $ 1,240 Diagnosis related group capital 127 133 131 Outlier 78 74 58 Outpatient 368 361 367 Disproportionate share 208 209 191 Direct Graduate and Indirect Medical Education 109 106 108 Inpatient psychiatric 47 45 46 Inpatient rehabilitation 59 79 100 Other(1) (17 ) (18 ) (2 ) Adjustments for prior year cost reports and related valuation allowances 31 49 6 Total Medicare net patient revenues $ 2,274 $ 2,328 $ 2,245 (1) The other revenue category includes skilled nursing facilities, one prospective payment system (PPS) exempt cancer hospital, one long term acute care hospital, other revenue adjustments, and adjustments related to the current year cost reports and related valuation allowances. Acute Care Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System Diagnosis Related Group Payments Sections 1886(d) and 1886(g) of the Social Security Act (the Act) set forth a system of payments for the operating and capital costs of acute care hospital stays based on a prospective payment system. Under the inpatient prospective payment system (IPPS), Medicare payments for hospital inpatient operating and capital related costs are made at predetermined rates for each hospital discharge. Discharges are classified according to a list of diagnosis related groups (DRGs), which group patients with similar clinical characteristics that are expected to require similar amounts of hospital resources. CMS assigns to each DRG a relative weight that represents the average resources required to care for cases in that particular DRG, relative to the average resources used to treat cases in all DRGs. Effective October 1, 2006, the IPPS includes 538 DRGs to which a relative weight has been assigned. 36 The base payment amount for operating costs is comprised of an average standardized amount that is divided into a labor related share and a nonlabor related share. Both the labor related share of the operating base payments and the capital base payments are adjusted by the geographic variations in labor and capital costs. These base payments are multiplied by the relative weight of the DRG assigned to each case. Although these payments are adjusted for area labor and capital cost differentials, the adjustments do not take into consideration an individual hospitals operating and capital costs. The DRG operating and capital base rates are updated annually, giving consideration to the increased cost of goods and services purchased by hospitals. The rate increases that became effective on October 1, 2006 and October 1, 2005 were 3.4% and 3.7%, respectively. Outlier Payments Outlier payments are additional payments made to hospitals for treating Medicare patients who are costlier to treat than the average patient in the same DRG. To qualify as a cost outlier, a hospitals billed charges, adjusted to cost, must exceed the payment rate for the DRG by a fixed threshold established annually by CMS. The Medicare fiscal intermediary calculates the cost of a claim by multiplying the billed charges by a cost to charge ratio (CCR) that is typically based on the hospitals most recent filed cost report. If the computed cost exceeds the sum of the DRG payment plus the fixed threshold, the hospital receives 80% of the difference as an outlier payment. Under the Act, CMS must project aggregate annual outlier payments to all PPS hospitals to be not less than 5% nor more than 6% of total DRG payments (Outlier Percentage). The Outlier Percentage is determined by dividing total outlier payments by the sum of DRG and outlier payments. CMS annually adjusts the fixed threshold to bring expected outlier payments within the mandated limit. A change to the fixed threshold affects total outlier payments by changing (1) the number of cases that qualify for outlier payments, and (2) the dollar amount hospitals receive for those cases that still qualify. The increase in our outlier revenues since 2004 is primarily the result of a decrease in the payment threshold enacted by CMS on October 1, 2005 and increases in the acuity and costs for many of the patients that appropriately qualify for this type of reimbursement. As of August 8, 2003, an outlier rule went into effect for discharges occurring on or after that date. Pursuant to this rule, high cost outlier payments may be reconciled upon cost report settlement to account for the differences between the CCR used to pay the claim at its original submission by the provider and the CCR determined at final settlement of the cost reporting period during which the discharge occurred. Outlier payments are to be reconciled at the time of cost report settlement if the actual operating CCR is found to be plus or minus 10 percentage points from the CCR used during that time period to make outlier payments and total outlier payments in that cost reporting period exceed $500,000. We are not aware of any material changes to our prior outlier payments that may occur as a result of this rule. Disproportionate Share Payments If a Medicare participating hospital serves a disproportionate share of low income patients, it receives a percentage add on to the DRG payment for each case. This percentage varies, depending on several factors that include the percentage of low income patients served. During 2006, 46 of our hospitals in continuing operations qualified for disproportionate share payments. Direct Graduate and Indirect Medical Education The Medicare program provides additional reimbursement to approved teaching hospitals for additional expenses incurred by such institutions. This additional reimbursement, which is subject to certain limits, including intern and resident full time equivalent (FTE) caps established in 1996, is made in the form of Direct Graduate Medical Education (GME) and Indirect Medical Education (IME) payments. During 2006, 16 of our hospitals in continuing operations were affiliated with academic institutions and were eligible to receive such payments. Medicare rules permit hospitals to enter into Medicare GME Affiliation Agreements for the purpose of applying the FTE limits on an aggregate basis, and some of our hospitals have entered into such agreements. Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System Under the outpatient prospective payment system, hospital outpatient services, except for certain services that are reimbursed on a separate fee schedule, are classified into groups called ambulatory payment classifications (APCs). Services in each APC are similar clinically and in terms of the resources they require, and a payment rate is established for each APC. Depending on the services provided, hospitals may be paid for more than one APC for an encounter. CMS periodically updates the APCs and annually adjusts rates paid for each APC. Inpatient Psychiatric Facility Prospective Payment System Effective January 1, 2005, CMS implemented a new system of reimbursement for hospital inpatient psychiatric services to replace a cost based payment system. The inpatient psychiatric facility prospective payment system (IPF PPS) applies to psychiatric hospitals and psychiatric units located within acute care hospitals that have been designated as exempt from the 37 hospital inpatient prospective payment system. The IPF PPS includes several provisions to ease the transition to the new payment system. For example, CMS is phasing in the IPF PPS for existing hospitals and units over a three year period to avoid disrupting the delivery of inpatient psychiatric services. Full payment under the IPF PPS begins in the fourth year. The IPF PPS, which is based on prospectively determined per diem rates, includes a stop loss provision to protect providers against significant losses during the transition period, and an outlier policy that authorizes additional payments for extraordinarily costly cases. At December 31, 2006, 14 of our general hospitals in continuing operations operated Medicare certified psychiatric units. Because of the aforementioned three year transition and stop loss provisions of the IPF PPS, the new payment system has not had, and, we believe, will not have a material impact on our 2007 inpatient psychiatric payments. Inpatient Rehabilitation Prospective Payment System Rehabilitation hospitals and rehabilitation units in acute care hospitals meeting certain criteria established by CMS are eligible to be paid as an Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility (IRF) under the IRF prospective payment system (IRF PPS). Payments under the IRF PPS are made on a per discharge basis. A patient classification system is used to assign patients in IRFs into case mix groups (CMGs). The IRF PPS uses federal prospective payment rates across distinct CMGs. Prior to July 1, 2004, a rehabilitation hospital or unit was eligible for classification as an IRF if it could show that, during its most recent 12 month cost reporting period, it served an inpatient population of whom at least 75 percent required intensive rehabilitation services for the treatment of one or more of ten specific conditions. This became known as the 75 percent rule. On May 7, 2004, CMS released a final rule entitled Medicare Program; Changes to the Criteria for Being Classified as an Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility (IRF Rule) that revised the medical condition criteria rehabilitation hospitals and units must meet. The IRF Rule also replaced the 75 percent rule compliance threshold with a three year transition compliance threshold of 50%, 60% and 65% for years one, two and three, respectively, that commenced with cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2004. The three year transition period was later delayed by one year. At the end of the three year transition period, the 75% compliance threshold would be restored. At December 31, 2006, we operated two inpatient rehabilitation hospitals, and 14 of our general hospitals in continuing operations operated inpatient rehabilitation units. All of our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals and units are in compliance with the required 60% compliance threshold. Cost Reports The final determination of certain Medicare payments to our hospitals, such as disproportionate share, GME, IME and bad debt expense, are retrospectively determined based on our hospitals cost reports. The final determination of these payments often takes many years to resolve because of audits by the program representatives, providers rights of appeal, and the application of numerous technical reimbursement provisions. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we completed the implementation of a new system and estimation process for recording Medicare net patient revenue and estimated cost report settlements. This resulted in recording accruals to more closely reflect the expected final settlements on our cost reports. For filed cost reports, we record the accrual based on those cost reports and subsequent activity, and record a valuation allowance against those cost reports based on historical settlement trends. The accrual for periods for which a cost report is yet to be filed is recorded based on estimates of what we expect to report on the filed cost reports and a corresponding valuation allowance is recorded as previously described. Cost reports must be filed generally within five months after the end of the annual cost report reporting period. After the cost report is filed, the accrual and corresponding valuation allowance may need to be adjusted. Medicaid Medicaid programs are funded by both the federal government and state governments. These programs and the reimbursement methodologies are administered by the states and vary from state to state and from year to year. Estimated payments under various state Medicaid programs, excluding state funded managed care programs, constituted approximately 9.0%, 8.4% and 7.5% of net patient revenues at our continuing general hospitals for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These payments are typically based on fixed rates determined by the individual states. We also receive disproportionate share payments under various state Medicaid programs. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our revenue attributable to disproportionate share payments and other 38 supplemental payments was approximately $161 million, $112 million and $97 million, respectively. The increase in revenue from disproportionate share payments and other supplemental payments is primarily attributable to additional funding provided by certain states, which was made available in part by additional annual state provider taxes on certain of our hospitals and changes in classification of state programs. However, there are proposed changes to the Medicaid system that could materially reduce the amount of Medicaid payments we receive in the future. See Regulatory and Legislative Changes Medicaid Federal State Financial Partnership below. Many states in which we operate are facing budgetary challenges that also pose a threat to Medicaid funding levels to hospitals and other providers. We expect these challenges to continue; however, we cannot predict the extent of the impact of the states budget reductions, if any, on our hospitals. Regulatory and Legislative Changes Annual Payment and Policy Changes to the Medicare Inpatient Prospective Payment System Under Medicare law, CMS is required annually to update certain rules governing the IPPS. The updates generally become effective October 1, the beginning of the federal fiscal year (FFY). On August 1, 2006, CMS issued the IPPS final rule for FFY 2007 (Final Rule). The Final Rule includes the following payment policy changes: A market basket increase of 3.4% for DRG operating payments for hospitals reporting specified quality measure data; An increase of market basket minus 2.0% for hospitals not supplying quality measure data; A 1.6% increase in the capital federal rate; A three year transition to change the methodology CMS uses for calculating the DRG relative weights from a charge basis to estimated hospital cost basis; A move toward a more complete severity adjustment by adding 20 new groups to the current DRG system; and An increase in the cost outlier threshold from $23,600 to $24,485. In the Final Rule, CMS projected that the combined impact of the payment and policy changes contained therein would yield an average 3.5% increase in payments for hospitals in large urban areas (populations over 1 million). However, due to the unusual circumstances imposed by the order of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in its decision in Bellevue Hospital Center v. Leavitt, which related to the application of 100% of the occupational mix to the wage index, CMS was not able to provide the final FFY 2007 occupational mix adjusted wage index tables, payment rates or impacts in the Final Rule. Because the wage data affects the calculation of the outlier threshold, as well as the outlier offset and budget neutrality factors that are applied to the standardized amounts, CMS was able to provide only tentative figures in the Final Rule. On September 29, 2006, CMS released a notice regarding the final FFY 2007 wage indices and payment rates after application of the revised occupational mix adjustment to the wage index. CMS projects that the revised impact of the FFY 2007 payment and policy changes after application of the occupational mix adjustment will still yield an average 3.5% increase in payments for hospitals in large urban areas. Using CMS projected impact percentage of 3.5% for hospitals in large urban areas applied to our Medicare IPPS payments for the twelve months ended September 30, 2006, the annual impact for all changes in the Final Rule and the aforementioned notice on our hospitals in continuing operations may result in an estimated increase in our Medicare revenues of approximately $52 million. Because of the uncertainty regarding other factors that may influence our future IPPS payments, including admission volumes, length of stay and case mix, we cannot provide any assurances regarding our estimate. On November 1, 2006, CMS issued a final rule that calls for hospitals seeking a full Medicare IPPS payment update to report additional quality measures for FFY 2008, including, for the first time, risk adjusted outcomes measures. These include 30 day mortality measures for patients with three conditions: heart attack, heart failure and pneumonia. The final rule also calls for three new measures from the Surgical Care Improvement Project for patients undergoing surgical procedures. We expect to be able to provide these additional quality measures. 39 Payment and Policy Changes to the Medicare Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System On November 24, 2006, CMS issued the Final Rule for the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System and Calendar Year (CY) 2007 Payment Rates (OPPS Final Rule). The OPPS Final Rule includes the following payment and policy proposals: A 3.4% inflation update in Medicare payment rates for hospital outpatient services paid under the outpatient prospective payment system (OPPS); A move towards the use of additional quality measures that are specifically appropriate for hospital outpatient care to be developed by CMS and reported by hospitals in CY 2009; An expanded number of payment levels for services in outpatient clinics and emergency departments from three to five to match the levels for physician services; and A revision to the OPPS ambulatory payment classification structure for drug administration services, allowing hospitals to be paid separately for additional hours of infusion beyond the initial hour of infusion. CMS projects that the combined impact of the payment and policy changes in the OPPS Final Rule will yield an average 3.0% increase in CY 2007 payments for all hospitals and an average 3.0% increase in payments for hospitals located in large urban areas (populations over one million). Applying the large urban hospital impact percentage from the OPPS Final Rule to our Medicare outpatient payments for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, the annual impact of all changes on our hospitals in continuing operations may result in an estimated increase in our Medicare revenues of approximately $10 million. Because of the uncertainty regarding other factors that may influence our future OPPS payments, including volumes and case mix, we cannot provide any assurances regarding this estimate. Payment and Policy Changes to the Medicare Inpatient Psychiatric Facility Prospective Payment System (IPF PPS) On May 9, 2006, CMS issued the Final Rule for the Medicare Inpatient Psychiatric Facility Prospective Payment System for FFY 2007 (IPF PPS Rule). The IPF PPS Rule, which became effective July 1, 2006, includes the following payment and policy changes: A market basket increase of 4.5%; and An increase to the fixed dollar loss threshold amount for outlier payments from $5,700 to $6,200. At December 31, 2006, 14 of our general hospitals in continuing operations operated inpatient psychiatric units. CMS projects that the combined impact of the final payment and policy changes will yield an average 4.0% increase in payments for all inpatient psychiatric facilities (including psychiatric units in acute care hospitals), and an average 2.4% increase in payments for psychiatric units of acute care hospitals located in urban areas. Applying the psychiatric unit impact percentage to our Medicare IPF PPS payments for the twelve months ended June 30, 2006, the annual impact of all changes on our hospitals psychiatric units in continuing operations may result in an estimated increase in our Medicare revenues of approximately $1 million. Because of the uncertainty regarding the factors that may influence our future IPF PPS payments, including admission volumes, length of stay and case mix, we cannot provide any assurances regarding this estimate. Payment and Policy Changes to the Medicare Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System (IRF PPS) On August 1, 2006, CMS issued the Final Rule for the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System for FFY 2007 (IRF PPS Rule). The IRF PPS Rule includes the following payment policy changes: An increase to the inpatient rehabilitation facility payment rate equal to the market basket of 3.3%; A 2.6% reduction in the standard payment to offset the effect of changes in coding, which, according to CMS, do not reflect real changes in patient acuity; A one year extension of the 75% admission criteria rule phase in period to conform to section 5005 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (the current 60% compliance threshold will be extended for cost reporting periods that start on or after July 1, 2006 and before July 1, 2007); and An increase in the outlier threshold for high cost outlier cases from $5,129 to $5,534. 40 CMS projects that the combined impact of the payment and policy changes in the IRF PPS Rule will yield an average 0.8% increase in payments for all inpatient rehabilitation facilities (including rehabilitation units in acute care hospitals), an average 0.9% increase in payments for rehabilitation hospitals located in urban areas and an average 0.7% increase in payments for rehabilitation units of hospitals located in urban areas. Applying the urban hospital and unit impact percentages from the IRF PPS Rule to our Medicare IRF PPS payments for the twelve months ended September 30, 2006, the annual impact of all changes on our rehabilitation hospitals and units in continuing operations may result in an estimated increase in our Medicare revenues of approximately $1 million. Because of the uncertainty regarding the factors that may influence our future IRF PPS payments, including admission volumes, length of stay and case mix, and the impact of compliance with the inpatient rehabilitation facility admission criteria, we cannot provide any assurances regarding this estimate. Specialty Hospitals On June 9, 2005, CMS announced the next steps it will take in connection with the end of an 18 month moratorium imposed by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) as to new specialty hospitals, which expired on June 8, 2005. CMS has instructed Medicare fiscal intermediaries not to process new provider enrollment applications for specialty hospitals until further notice. In addition, CMS stated that it will undertake the following steps during the suspension to reform Medicare payments that may provide specialty hospitals with an unfair advantage over other types of providers, such as community hospitals or ambulatory surgical centers (ASCs): (1) reform payment rates for inpatient hospital services through changes to the DRG system; (2) reform payment rates for ASCs; (3) review procedures for approving hospitals for participation in Medicare and closely scrutinize processes for approving and starting to pay new specialty hospitals; and (4) seek public comment on the appropriate standards for specialty hospitals. According to CMS, these steps were designed to promote true and fair competition in hospital services, while improving quality and avoiding unnecessary costs for patients and for the Medicare program. On August 8, 2006, the temporary suspension on the processing of provider enrollment applications for specialty hospitals ended. If specialty hospital provider enrollment applications are approved for new facilities in locations that can compete with our hospitals, we could face a reduction in volumes for some of our most profitable procedures. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, Section 911 of the MMA requires that CMS replace the current fiscal intermediary and carrier contracts with competitively procured contracts that conform to the Federal Acquisition Regulation and are awarded to Medicare Administrative Contractors (each, a MAC). This initiative will reduce the number of entities currently providing Medicare administrative services, such as claim processing and cost report settlements, from 43 to 15. CMS has six years, between 2005 and 2011, to complete the transition of Medicare fee for service claims processing activities from the fiscal intermediaries and carriers to the MACs. Tenet is considered a chain organization under Medicare rules and, as of December 31, 2006, is served by a single fiscal intermediary for claims processing and cost report settlements. In the OPPS Final Rule, CMS is allowing all hospitals in a chain organization to be served by the MAC awarded the jurisdiction in which the chain organizations home office is located (in Tenets case, Jurisdiction #4). CMS released a Request for Proposal for Jurisdiction #4 on September 29, 2006 and expects to award that contract in July 2007. In the event that Tenet hospitals are required to undergo a change of fiscal intermediary as a result of the MAC initiative, the conversion process to the MAC(s) will commence in 2008. We cannot predict what impact, if any, the MAC conversion initiative will have on our operations or cash flow. Medicare For FFYs 2005, 2006 and 2007, hospitals will receive an inpatient update equal to the full market basket rate if they submit quality performance data to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Those hospitals not submitting quality performance data for 10 quality measures will receive an increase equal to the market basket rate minus 0.4%. In order to qualify for the full market basket update, hospitals must submit performance data on all patients on the 10 quality measures that are a subset of common hospital performance measures developed and aligned by CMS and the Joint Commission (formerly, the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) and endorsed by the National Quality Foundation. Effective October 1, 2006, all of our hospitals subject to this requirement received the full market basket update for FFY 2007. The indirect medical education adjustment decreased from 5.8% in FFY 2005 to 5.55% in FFY 2006 and will further decrease to 5.35% in FFY 2007. It increases to 5.5% for FFY 2008 and beyond. 41 Medicaid The reduction in Medicaid disproportionate share (DSH) hospital funding in FFY 2004 was eliminated and the DSH allotment increased 16% over FFY 2003 levels. Subsequent years are frozen at 2004 levels until the allotment level intersects with where it would have been absent relief from the Balanced Budget Act. Increases thereafter are tied to the change in the Consumer Price Index. Long Term Care Hospitals CMS issued a proposed rule for long term care hospitals on February 1, 2007 that would provide for a 0.71% increase in the payment rate, increase the fixed outlier threshold from $14,887 to $18,774 and revise the current short stay outlier provision to include a comparable inpatient prospective payment system amount for cases where the length of stay is less than or equal to the IPPS threshold plus one standard deviation. The proposed rule also seeks to extend the existing 25% cap on admissions for long term care units within hospitals to virtually all long term care hospitals such that no long term care hospital (with minor exceptions) could receive more than 25% of its admissions from a single source. Under the existing regulations, long term care hospital units that have been granted grandfather status are not subject to the 25% cap on admissions from the host hospital or a single source. Tenet operates one long term care hospital unit that has been granted grandfather status. We cannot predict the impact this proposed rule might have on our Medicare net revenues. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 On February 8, 2006, the President signed the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 into law. Significant provisions of the legislation affecting hospitals include: A one year extension, from July 1, 2006 through June 30, 2007, of the current compliance threshold of 60% that inpatient rehabilitation facilities and units must meet to retain their IRF status. On July 1, 2007, the previously scheduled transition schedule (i.e., a 65% threshold, followed by a 75% threshold) resumes. Effective for payments beginning in FFY 2007, hospitals must submit data on additional quality measures. CMS must begin to adopt the baseline set of 21 performance measures as set forth in the November 2005 report by the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences under Section 238(b) of the MMA. Failure to submit the required data on the quality measures selected by CMS will result in a 2% market basket reduction. This provision supplants the current reporting requirement under the MMA described above. For FFY 2008, CMS must add additional quality measures for hospitals to report to receive the maximum payment update available. Also, hospitals will be required to identify cases assigned to DRGs that have higher payments when a hospital acquired infection is present. CMS must identify at least two conditions under which the hospital would receive the lower DRG payment. CMS must establish a gainsharing demonstration project to test and evaluate methods and arrangements between hospitals and physicians to improve the quality and efficiency of care and hospital performance. The demonstration is scheduled to run from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2009 and have six demonstration sites, two of which must be rural. Certain imaging services provided in non hospital settings will be limited to the OPPS rates. This change was implemented by regulation effective January 1, 2007. 42 Medicare Payment Advisory Commission At a Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) meeting held on October 5, 2006, data was presented that suggested that only $1.9 billion of the $4.9 billion in total Medicare Indirect Medical Education payments made in FFY 2004 was empirically justified (that is, related directly to the increased costs incurred by teaching hospitals to meet their teaching mission). The MedPAC data also shows that only $1.7 billion of the $7.7 billion in total Medicare disproportionate share hospital payments made in FFY 2004 reflected the additional costs for caring for low income patients. At the January 2007 meeting, MedPAC approved recommendations to its March 2007 report to Congress. Recommendations directly impacting hospitals are to provide a full inpatient and outpatient market basket update in FFY 2008 and to reduce the IME adjustments by 1% to 4.5% in FFY 2008. We cannot predict what actions, if any, Congress or CMS may take in this regard and what impact such actions may have on our operations. Such actions, if any, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. FFY 2008 Federal Budget Proposal On February 5, 2007, the White House released its FFY 2008 budget proposal, which includes nearly $102 billion in Medicare and Medicaid cuts over five years. The proposed cuts include: Annual Medicare updates of market basket minus 0.65% in FFYs 2008 through 2012 for hospital inpatient and outpatient services; A FFY 2008 IRF PPS update of 0% and market basket minus 0.65% for FFYs 2009 through 2012; An update of Medicare ambulatory surgical center payments of the Consumer Price Index minus 0.65% beginning in FFY 2010; Reduction of Medicare IME and Medicaid GME payments by more than $6 billion over five years; Mandatory reductions in Medicare expenditures of 0.4% if the Medicare Fund Warning required by the Deficit Reduction Act is triggered; Reductions in IRF PPS payment rates for hip and knee replacement therapy; and A phase out of Medicare bad debt payments over four years. Most of the budget proposals require Congressional action, and we cannot predict what action, if any, Congress will take. As part of his State of the Union address and with the release of the proposed budget, the President also announced two proposals to increase health insurance coverage. The first proposal would provide a standard income tax deduction of $7,500 for individuals and $15,000 for families for the purchase of qualifying health insurance, and cap the income tax exclusion for employer provided health insurance at those same levels. The second proposal, called the Affordable Choices Initiative, seeks to expand the use of Medicaid waivers, thereby allowing states to redirect disproportionate share hospital funds into new programs designed to expand health insurance coverage in low income populations. These proposals have yet to be completely defined in detail and will require Congressional action. We cannot predict what actions, if any, Congress will take and what impact such actions might have on our operations. Such actions, if any, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Medicaid Federal State Financial Partnership On January 12, 2007, CMS released a display version of the proposed changes to the Medicaid program under the Federal State Financial Partnership. Under this proposed rule, CMS would reduce Medicaid funding to states by $774 million per year for the FFYs 2007 through 2011. The American Hospital Association is strongly urging Congress to stop this rule and protect the Medicaid program. We cannot predict what actions, if any, Congress or CMS may take in this regard and what impact such actions may have on our operations. Such actions, if any, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. PRIVATE INSURANCE Managed Care We currently have thousands of managed care contracts with various health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and preferred provider organizations (PPOs). HMOs generally maintain a full service health care delivery network comprised of physician, hospital, pharmacy and ancillary service providers that HMO members must access through an assigned primary care 43 physician. The members care is then managed by his or her primary care physician and other network providers in accordance with the HMOs quality assurance and utilization review guidelines so that appropriate health care can be efficiently delivered in the most cost effective manner. HMOs typically provide no benefit or reimbursement to their members who use non contracted health care providers. PPOs generally offer limited benefits to members who use non contracted health care providers. PPO members who use contracted health care providers receive a preferred benefit, typically in the form of lower co payments or deductibles. As employers and employees have demanded more choice, managed care plans have developed hybrid products that combine elements of both HMO and PPO plans. The amount of our managed care net patient revenue during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $4.4 billion, $4.2 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. Approximately 59% of our managed care net patient revenues through December 31, 2006 were derived from our top ten managed care payers. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 54% and 58%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable related to continuing operations were due from managed care payers. The table below shows the managed care admissions by type for our general hospitals, expressed as percentages of total managed care admissions: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Non governmental 63.4 % 67.1 % 69.5 % Governmental 36.6 % 32.9 % 30.5 % We expect managed care governmental admissions to continue to increase as a percentage of total managed care admissions. However, the managed Medicare and Medicaid insurance plans typically generate lower yields than commercial managed care plans, which have been experiencing an improved pricing trend. Although we have had more than four consecutive quarters of improved managed care pricing, we expect some moderation in the pricing percentage increases, on a year over year basis, in the near to intermediate term due to the number of acquisitions in the managed care industry. A majority of our managed care contracts are evergreen contracts. Evergreen contracts extend automatically every year, but may be renegotiated or terminated by either party after giving 90 to 120 days notice. National payers generate approximately 43% of our total net managed care revenues, although these agreements are often negotiated on a local or regional basis. The remainder comes from regional or local payers. Indemnity An indemnity based agreement generally requires the insurer to reimburse an insured patient for health care expenses after those expenses have been incurred by the patient, subject to an increasing number of policy conditions and exclusions. Unlike an HMO member, a patient with indemnity insurance is free to control his or her utilization of health care and selection of health care providers. SELF PAY PATIENTS Self pay patients are patients who do not qualify for government programs payments, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and who do not have some form of private insurance, and are, therefore, responsible for their own medical bills. A significant portion of our self pay patients is being admitted through our hospitals emergency departments and often requires high acuity treatment. High acuity treatment is more costly to provide and, therefore, results in higher billings, which are the least collectible of all accounts. We believe our level of self pay patients has been higher in the last several years than previous periods due to a combination of broad economic factors, including reductions in state Medicaid budgets, increasing numbers of individuals and employers who choose not to purchase insurance, and an increased burden of co payments and deductibles to be made by patients instead of insurers. Self pay accounts pose significant collectibility problems. At both December 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 6% of our net accounts receivable related to continuing operations were due from self pay patients. Further, the majority of our provision for doubtful accounts relates to self pay patients. We are taking numerous actions in an effort to mitigate the effect on us of the high level of uninsured patients and the related economic impact. These initiatives include conducting detailed reviews of existing intake procedures in our hospitals and creating better intake procedures for assisting patients with financial 44 options. We continue to modify and refine our self pay collection workflows, enhance our technology to assist our staff, and improve staff training in an effort to increase collections and reduce accounts receivable. Over the longer term, several other initiatives we have previously announced should also help address this challenge. For example, our Compact, which is discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, is enabling us to offer lower rates to uninsured patients who historically have been charged standard gross charges. We also provide charity care to patients who are financially unable to pay for the health care services they receive. Most patients who qualify for charity care are charged a per diem amount for services received, subject to a cap. Except for the per diem amounts, our policy is not to pursue collection of amounts determined to qualify as charity care; and, therefore, we do not report these amounts in net operating revenues or in provision for doubtful accounts. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, $625 million, $570 million and $532 million in charity care gross charges were excluded from net operating revenues and provision for doubtful accounts, respectively. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following two tables show a summary of our net operating revenues, operating expenses and operating loss from continuing operations, both in dollar amounts and as percentages of net operating revenues, for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Net operating revenues: General hospitals $ 8,531 $ 8,418 $ 8,537 Other operations 170 196 231 Net operating revenues 8,701 8,614 8,768 Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 3,883 3,922 3,843 Supplies 1,587 1,574 1,502 Provision for doubtful accounts 530 625 1,073 Other operating expenses 2,014 1,921 1,924 Depreciation 313 306 317 Amortization 29 26 17 Impairment and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries 380 46 1,255 Hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs (14 ) 13 Costs of litigation and investigations 766 212 74 Loss from early extinguishment of debt 15 13 Operating loss $ (787 ) $ (46 ) $ (1,250 ) Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Net operating revenues: General hospitals 98.0 % 97.7 % 97.4 % Other operations 2.0 % 2.3 % 2.6 % Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 44.6 % 45.5 % 43.8 % Supplies 18.2 % 18.3 % 17.1 % Provision for doubtful accounts 6.1 % 7.3 % 12.2 % Other operating expenses 23.1 % 22.3 % 22.0 % Depreciation 3.6 % 3.5 % 3.6 % Amortization 0.3 % 0.3 % 0.2 % Impairment and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries 4.4 % 0.5 % 14.3 % Hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs (0.1 )% 0.1 % % Costs of litigation and investigations 8.8 % 2.5 % 0.9 % Loss from early extinguishment of debt % 0.2 % 0.2 % Operating loss (9.0 )% (0.5 )% (14.3 )% 45 Net operating revenues of our continuing general hospitals include inpatient and outpatient revenues, as well as nonpatient revenues (primarily rental income, management fee revenue and income from services such as cafeterias, gift shops and parking) and other miscellaneous revenue. Net operating revenues of other operations consist primarily of revenues from (1) physician practices, (2) rehabilitation hospitals and a long term care facility located on or near the same campuses as our general hospitals and (3) equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates that are not directly associated with our general hospitals. Net operating revenues from our other operations were $170 million, $196 million and $231 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, included in our net operating revenues, were $6 million, $10 million and $14 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Since 2004, we have seen a decline in revenues from rehabilitation hospitals and long term care facilities in certain markets. As we continue to focus on our general hospital operations, the revenue attributable to our other operations may continue to decrease. The table below shows certain selected historical operating statistics for our continuing general hospitals: Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) 2004 (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Patient Day, Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net inpatient revenues(1) $ 5,928 $ 5,808 2.1 % $ 5,784 Net outpatient revenues(1) $ 2,483 $ 2,494 (0.4 )% $ 2,639 Number of general hospitals (at end of period) 57 57 (2) 57 Licensed beds (at end of period) 14,941 15,121 (1.2 )% 15,121 Average licensed beds 15,023 15,128 (0.7 )% 15,054 Utilization of licensed beds(3) 52.5 % 54.6 % (2.1 )%(2) 55.9 % Patient days 2,881,383 3,017,354 (4.5 )% 3,070,315 Equivalent patient days(4) 4,066,907 4,220,075 (3.6 )% 4,271,016 Net inpatient revenue per patient day $ 2,057 $ 1,925 6.9 % $ 1,884 Admissions(5) 578,168 592,698 (2.5 )% 599,104 Equivalent admissions(4) 822,062 835,894 (1.7 )% 841,045 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 10,253 $ 9,799 4.6 % $ 9,654 Average length of stay (days) 5.0 5.1 (0.1 )(2) 5.1 Surgeries 411,164 425,606 (3.4 )% 425,807 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 580 $ 552 5.1 % $ 539 Outpatient visits 4,280,812 4,517,119 (5.2 )% 4,898,871 (1) Net inpatient revenues and net outpatient revenues are components of net operating revenues. Net inpatient revenues at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 included self pay revenues of $253 million, $297 million and $430 million, respectively. Net outpatient revenues at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 included self pay revenues of $296 million, $365 million and $463 million, respectively. (2) The change is the difference between 2006 and 2005 amounts shown. (3) Utilization of licensed beds represents patient days divided by average licensed beds divided by number of days in the period. (4) Equivalent admissions/patient days represents actual admissions/patient days adjusted to include outpatient services by multiplying actual admissions/patient days by the sum of gross inpatient revenues and outpatient revenues and dividing the result by gross inpatient revenues. (5) Self pay admissions represented 4.1%, 3.8% and 3.7% of total admissions for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Charity care admissions represented 1.9%, 1.7% and 1.4% of total admissions for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. REVENUES During the year ended December 31, 2006, net operating revenues from continuing operations increased approximately $87 million or 1.0% compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. Net operating revenues were also impacted by the discounts recorded on self pay accounts under our Compact. Total Compact discounts, which reduced net operating revenues, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, were $930 million and $631 million, respectively. Outpatient visits, patient days and admissions were lower during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 by 5.2%, 4.5% and 2.5%, respectively. We believe the following factors continue to contribute to the overall decline in our inpatient and outpatient volume levels: (1) loss of patients to competing health care providers; (2) challenges in physician recruitment, retention and attrition; (3) strategic reduction of services related to our Targeted Growth Initiative discussed in Executive Overview Significant Challenges Company Specific Challenge 46 above; and (4) unfavorable publicity about us as a result of legacy lawsuits and government investigations, which has impacted our relationships with physicians and patients. Our net inpatient revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased 2.1% compared to the prior year. There are various positive and negative factors impacting our net inpatient revenues. The positive factors are as follows: Improved managed care pricing as a result of contracts renegotiated in 2006 and 2005, partially offset by the reduction in stop loss payments from $391 million in the prior year to $318 million in the current year. This improved pricing is also partially offset by an overall shift in our managed care patient mix towards plans with lower levels of reimbursement, including: (1) national payers whose contract terms typically generate lower yields; and (2) managed care Medicare and Medicaid insurance plans, which typically generate lower yields than commercial managed care plans. Although we have had more than four consecutive quarters of improved managed care pricing, we expect some moderation in the pricing percentage increases in the near to intermediate term; and Medicaid disproportionate share revenue of $161 million in the current year, compared to $112 million in the prior year. The negative factors are as follows: Lower patient volumes, including Medicare, Medicaid and commercial managed care volumes; Favorable net adjustments for prior year cost reports and related valuation allowances, primarily related to Medicare and Medicaid, in the current year of $39 million, including a favorable adjustment of $17 million in 2006 as a result of a change in estimate of the valuation allowances necessary for prior year cost report periods not yet audited and settled by our fiscal intermediary, versus a favorable net adjustment in the prior year of $44 million; and Compact discounts of $471 million in the current year versus $328 million in the prior year, which reduced net inpatient revenue. Net outpatient revenues during the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased 0.4% compared to last year. Net outpatient revenues were also negatively impacted by the implementation of the Compact. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately $459 million in discounts were recorded on outpatient self pay accounts under the Compact compared to discounts of $303 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. As previously mentioned, outpatient visits also decreased 5.2% for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the prior year. The primary reasons for this decrease are lower rehabilitation visits, closures or joint venture arrangements with respect to various outpatient centers, and the increasing competition we are experiencing from physician owned entities providing outpatient services. The reduction in outpatient ancillary visits, coupled with an increase in emergency room visits and improved managed care pricing, contributed to an overall increase in our net outpatient revenue per visit. SALARIES, WAGES AND BENEFITS Salaries, wages and benefits expense as a percentage of net operating revenues decreased for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Salaries, wages and benefits per adjusted patient day increased approximately 2.7% in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the prior year. The increase is primarily due to less effective flexing of staff during volume declines, partially offset by lower overall benefit costs due primarily to favorable pension expense adjustments related to a terminated retirement plan of $14 million in 2006 compared to $31 million in 2005. Approximately 19% of our employees were represented by labor unions as of December 31, 2006. In September 2006, certain employees of our Placentia Linda Hospital voted to reject the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) as their collective bargaining representative; in June 2006, certain employees of Doctors Medical Center of Modesto elected the California Nurses Association (CNA) as their collective bargaining representative; and in December 2006, certain employees of our USC University Hospital, USC Norris Cancer Center and Community Hospital of Los Gatos elected CNA as their collective bargaining representative. On December 31, 2006, our collective bargaining agreements with SEIU and CNA expired. These agreements relate to multiple facilities in California and two hospitals in Florida. The terms of these 47 expired collective bargaining agreements, which cover approximately 14% of our employees, will remain in place until new agreements are reached. We are currently negotiating with these unions, as well as with the United Nurses Association of California, regarding successor collective bargaining agreements. Although the new agreements are expected to have provisions to increase wages and benefits, the unions have agreed to an arbitration process to resolve any issues not resolved through normal renegotiations. The agreed to arbitration process provides the greatest assurance that the unions will not engage in strike activity during the negotiation of new agreements and prevents the arbitrator from ordering us to pay market leading wages for a particular hospital. We do not anticipate the new agreements will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As union activity increases at our hospitals, our salaries, wages and benefits expense may increase more rapidly than our net operating revenues. Included in salaries, wages and benefits expense in the year ended December 31, 2006 is $50 million of stock compensation expense compared to $48 million in the year ended December 31, 2005 and $100 million in the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease from 2004 is due to the impact of fully vested restricted stock units and stock option grants that had a higher fair value estimate than recent grants. SUPPLIES Supplies expense as a percentage of net operating revenues remained flat for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005, however, supplies expense per adjusted patient day increased 4.6% from 2005. The increase in supplies expense was primarily attributable to higher pharmaceutical, orthopedic and implants supply costs. In the case of implants, the higher costs are associated primarily with new products used to provide a higher quality of care to our patients, whereas the higher orthopedic costs primarily reflect inflation of prices. Higher pharmaceutical costs reflect a combination of new products and inflation. We strive to control supplies expense through product standardization, bulk purchases, contract compliance, improved utilization, and operational improvements that should minimize waste. The items of current cost reduction focus continue to be cardiac stents and pacemakers, orthopedic implants and high cost pharmaceuticals. We also utilize the group purchasing strategies and supplies management services of Broadlane, Inc., a company in which we currently hold a 48% interest. Broadlane offers a group purchasing procurement strategy, outsourcing and e commerce services to the health care industry. PROVISION FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The provision for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net operating revenues decreased for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to the implementation of the Compact, partially offset by higher levels of uninsured patients. Prior to implementation of the discounting provisions under the Compact, the vast majority of these accounts were ultimately recognized to be uncollectible and, as a result, were then recorded in our provision for doubtful accounts. By offering managed care style discounts, we are charging the uninsured more affordable rates, whereby they may be better able to meet their financial obligations to pay for services we provide them. The discounts recorded as contractual allowances during the year ended December 31, 2006 were approximately $930 million compared to $631 million in the prior year. The increase is substantially due to the phasing in of the Compact and the fact that Compact discounts were in effect at all 57 of our general hospitals in the year ended 2006, whereas in 2005, our 12 hospitals in Texas implemented the discounting components of the Compact on September 1, 2005 and 15 of our hospitals in California implemented them effective February 1, 2005. However, we do not expect the Compact to have a material effect on the net economic impact of treating self pay patients. A significant portion of our provision for doubtful accounts still relates to self pay patients. Collection of accounts receivable has been a key area of focus, particularly over the past two years, as we have experienced adverse changes in our business mix. Our current estimated collection rate on self pay accounts is approximately 32%, including collections from point of service through collections by our in house collection agency or external collection vendors. This self pay collection rate includes payments made by patients, including co payments and deductibles paid by patients with insurance, prior to an account being classified and assigned to our in house self pay collection group. The self pay collection percentage as of December 31, 2005 was approximately 24%. 48 We are taking numerous actions in an effort to mitigate the effect on us of the high level of uninsured patients and the related economic impact. These initiatives include conducting detailed reviews of existing intake procedures in our hospitals and creating better intake procedures for assisting patients with financial options. We continue to modify and refine our self pay collection workflows, enhance our technology to assist our staff, and improve staff training in an effort to increase collections and reduce accounts receivable. Payment pressure from managed care payers has also affected our provision for doubtful accounts. We continue to experience ongoing managed care payment delays and disputes; however, we are working with these payers to obtain adequate and timely reimbursement for our services. In the second quarter of 2005, bad debt expense included a positive adjustment of approximately $33 million to reduce bad debt expense for disputed managed care receivables that were ultimately settled. As a result of these settlements, contractual allowances in 2005 included a corresponding increase that reduced net operating revenues by approximately $29 million. Our current estimated collection rate on managed care accounts is approximately 97%, which includes collections from point of service through collections by our in house collection agency or external collection vendors. The comparable managed care collection percentage as of December 31, 2005 was approximately 96%. We continue to focus on revenue cycle initiatives to improve cash flow. One specific initiative that was started during the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and is expected to be completed in 2007 is the Center for Patient Access Services, which is a centralized dedicated operation that performs financial clearance, including completing insurance eligibility checks, documenting verification of benefits, providing required notifications to managed care payers, obtaining pre authorizations when necessary and contacting the patient to offer pre service financial counseling. Although we continue to improve our methodology for evaluating the collectibility of our accounts receivable, we may incur future charges resulting from the above described trends. We manage our provision for doubtful accounts using hospital specific goals and benchmarks such as (1) total cash collections, (2) point of service cash collections, (3) accounts receivable days outstanding (AR Days) and (4) accounts receivable aging. The following tables present the approximate aging by payer of our continuing operations net accounts receivable of $1.343 billion and $1.420 billion, excluding cost report settlements payable and valuation allowances of $43 million and $89 million, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively: December 31, 2006 Medicare Medicaid Managed Care Indemnity, Self Pay and Other Total 0 60 days 98 % 60 % 72 % 31 % 67 % 61 120 days 2 % 26 % 16 % 26 % 17 % 121 180 days % 14 % 7 % 12 % 8 % Over 180 days % % 5 % 31 % 8 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % December 31, 2005 Medicare Medicaid Managed Care Indemnity, Self Pay and Other Total 0 60 days 95 % 63 % 72 % 47 % 69 % 61 120 days 4 % 24 % 18 % 15 % 16 % 121 180 days 1 % 13 % 8 % 7 % 8 % Over 180 days % % 2 % 31 % 7 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Our AR Days from continuing operations decreased to 55 days at December 31, 2006 compared to 58 days at December 31, 2005. AR Days at December 31, 2006 and 2005 are within our target of below 60 days. This amount is calculated as our accounts receivable from continuing operations on that date divided by our revenue from continuing operations for the quarter ended on that date divided by the number of days in the quarter. The decrease in AR Days reflects improved collections, particularly in our Texas and Central Northeast regions. As of December 31, 2006, we had a cumulative total of patient account assignments dating back at least three years or older of approximately $4.6 billion related to our continuing operations being pursued by our in house and outside 49 collection agencies or vendors. These accounts have already been written off and are not included in our receivables or in the allowance for doubtful accounts; however, an estimate of future recoveries from all the accounts in collection is determined based on our historical experience and recorded in accounts receivable. Patient advocates from our Medical Eligibility Program (MEP) screen patients in the hospital and determine potential linkage to financial assistance programs. They also expedite the process of applying for these government programs. Receivables from patients who are potentially eligible for Medicaid are classified as Medicaid pending, under our MEP, with appropriate contractual allowances recorded. Based on recent trends, approximately 74% of all accounts in our MEP are ultimately approved for benefits under a government program such as Medicaid. The following table shows the approximate amount of net accounts receivable in our MEP, still awaiting determination of eligibility under a government program at December 31, 2006 and 2005, by aging category: December 31, 2006 2005 0 60 days $ 55 $ 60 61 120 days 19 18 121 180 days 9 7 Over 180 days(1) Total $ 83 $ 85 (1) Includes accounts receivable of $12 million at December 31, 2006 and $9 million at December 31, 2005 that are fully reserved. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Other operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were 23.1%, 22.3% and 22.0% of net operating revenue, respectively. The increases are due primarily to increases in fixed costs that do not fluctuate with changes in our patient volumes, such as utilities, property taxes, information technology costs and other contracted services, including physicians fees, that continued to result in a higher operating expense percentage even though revenues increased from the prior year. Other operating expenses include malpractice expense of $192 million, $200 million and $215 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The decreases in 2006 and 2005 are due to lower volumes and improved loss development coupled with higher 2004 costs reflecting adverse loss development and a change in the maturity composite rate used to discount our malpractice liabilities from the Federal Reserve ten year composite rate to the Federal Reserve seven year composite rate, which resulted from a change in our claims payment patterns. Also included in other operating expenses in the year ended December 31, 2006 is $3 million in net losses compared to $4 million and $20 million of net gains in the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, on sales of equipment and other assets, including a net gain of approximately $14 million in 2004 from the sale of certain home health agencies and hospices. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS AND GOODWILL AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES During the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded impairment and restructuring charges of $380 million, net of insurance recoveries of $3 million. This compares to impairment and restructuring charges of $46 million and $1.255 billion for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail of these charges, reversal of reserves and related liabilities. In the second quarter of 2006, we announced several changes to our operating structure. Because of the restructuring of our regions as described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, our goodwill reporting units (as defined in Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets) changed in the second quarter of 2006, requiring us to perform a goodwill impairment evaluation. Based on this evaluation, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of approximately $35 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2006 based on the estimated fair value of goodwill associated with the reconfigured reporting units. In addition, as part of our annual impairment test, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $152 million for our Central Northeast region due to a lower estimated fair value as a result of adverse industry and company specific challenges that continue to affect our operating results and our anticipated future financial trends, including reduced patient volumes, high levels of bad debt expense related to uninsured and underinsured patients, and continued pressure on labor and supply costs. We estimated the fair value of the 50 goodwill based on independent appraisals, established market values of comparable assets, or internal estimates of future net cash flows. Our impairment tests presume stable or, in some cases, improving results in our hospitals. If these expectations are not met, or if we expect negative trends to impact our future outlook, further impairments of long lived assets and goodwill may occur, and we will incur additional restructuring charges. Future restructuring of our regions that changes our goodwill reporting units could also result in further impairments of our goodwill. COSTS OF LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATIONS Costs of litigation and investigations in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 were $766 million compared to $212 million and $74 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The 2006 expenses were comprised primarily of the June 2006 global civil settlement with the federal government ($711 million), accruals of minimum liabilities on several other cases, and legal and other costs. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The 2005 expenses consisted primarily of $140 million for the net settlement of a securities lawsuit, $7 million in final settlement of matters related to Redding Medical Center, $7 million to settle several issues with the Florida Attorney General, and legal and other costs to defend ourselves in other matters, in particular the various federal government investigations. Costs of litigation and investigations in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2004 consisted primarily of a $30 million accrual for an estimated liability to address the potential resolution of a number of the civil lawsuits arising out of pricing strategies at facilities owned or formerly owned by our subsidiaries, and costs to defend ourselves in various matters. LOSS FROM EARLY EXTINGUISHMENT OF DEBT In connection with the early redemption of senior notes in February 2005, we recorded a $15 million loss on extinguishment of debt, representing premiums paid and the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs. A loss on extinguishment of debt of $13 million was recorded in 2004 in connection with the repurchase of senior notes and the termination of our credit agreement. These losses primarily reflect the write off of debt issuance costs, discounts and unamortized hedging losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss. NET GAINS ON SALES OF FACILITIES AND LONG TERM INVESTMENTS The $5 million of net gains in the year ended December 31, 2006 related to the sale of an investment and the reduction of reserves associated with hospitals sold in prior years. The $4 million of net gains in the year ended December 31, 2005 related primarily to the reduction of reserve estimates associated with hospitals sold in prior years. The $7 million of net gains in the year ended December 31, 2004 related primarily to our sale of investments in various health care ventures and reduction of reserves associated with hospitals sold in prior years. INCOME TAX (EXPENSE) BENEFIT Income taxes in the year ended December 31, 2006 included: (1) a $247 million income tax benefit ($171 million recorded as a current income tax receivable and $76 million as a non current deferred tax asset) to record the tax effects of our global civil settlement with the federal government; 51 (2) the impact of the non deductibility of goodwill impairment charges ($52 million unfavorable tax impact on the effective tax rate reconciliation as a result of this permanent difference); (3) income tax expense of $140 million to increase the valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets, excluding the impact of the RAR discussed below and other tax adjustments; and (4) an income tax benefit of $42 million to reflect changes in our tax contingency reserves as a result of the RAR and settlement discussed below and other tax adjustments, net of related valuation allowance. In September 2006, the IRS completed its examination of our federal tax returns for fiscal years ended May 31, 1998 through the seven month transition period ended December 31, 2002. In October 2006, the IRS issued a Revenue Agents Report (RAR) in which it proposed to assess an aggregate tax deficiency of $207 million plus interest. The RAR addresses several disputed issues, including the computation of depreciation expense on certain capital expenditures, the deductibility of a portion of certain civil settlements we paid to the federal government and the deductibility of a loss incurred on the disposition of a business. In the aggregate, the disputed issues comprise approximately $82 million, plus interest thereon of $28 million as of December 31, 2006. We believe our original deductions were appropriate, and we have appealed each of these disputed issues by filing a protest with the appeals division of the IRS. We believe we have adequately reserved for all probable tax matters presented in the RAR, including interest. We presently cannot determine the ultimate resolution of the disputed issues. Of the aggregate proposed tax deficiency of $207 million, approximately $125 million is attributable to issues that are not in dispute. After taking into account net operating losses from 2004, which offset a portion of the undisputed tax deficiency, the remaining undisputed amount is reduced to approximately $85 million. We paid this undisputed tax deficiency of $85 million, plus interest thereon of $25 million, in December 2006. Income taxes in the year ended December 31, 2005 included: (1) income tax expense of $101 million to increase the valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets; and (2) an income tax benefit of $24 million to reflect changes in our tax contingency reserves. We established a valuation allowance in the fourth quarter of 2004 as a result of assessing the realization of our deferred tax assets based on the fact that we incurred significant impairment charges, legal settlements and continued adverse results of operations, combined with having a cumulative loss for the three year period ended December 31, 2004, which is considered negative evidence under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). We concluded that, as a result of this negative evidence, SFAS 109 precludes us from relying upon our forecasts of future income for the purpose of supporting the realization of the deferred tax assets under the more likely than not standard. Income tax expense of $295 million, on a pretax loss of $1.559 billion, in the year ended December 31, 2004 included a portion of the impact of establishing the $789 million valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets during the fourth quarter of 2004. Approximately $569 million of the valuation allowance was recorded as income tax expense in continuing operations and $220 million was recorded as income tax expense in discontinued operations. Also impacting income tax expense was the $268 million unfavorable tax effect of the non deductibility of goodwill impairment charges. PRO FORMA INFORMATION In light of the additional charges to provision for doubtful accounts recorded in the quarter ended June 30, 2004 related to the change in how we estimated the net realizable value of self pay accounts and the discounts for uninsured patients phased in under the Compact, beginning in the second quarter of 2004, we are supplementing certain historical information with information presented on a pro forma basis as if we had recorded no additional provision for doubtful accounts and had not implemented the discounts under the Compact during the periods indicated. This information includes numerical measures of our historical performance that have the effect of depicting such measures of financial performance differently from that presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and that are defined under SEC rules as non GAAP financial measures. We believe that the information presented on this pro forma basis is important to our shareholders in order to show the effect that these items had on elements of our historical results of operations and provide important insight into our operations in terms of other underlying business trends, without necessarily estimating or suggesting their effect on our future results of operations. This supplemental information has inherent limitations because the additional provision for doubtful accounts recorded during the quarter ended June 30, 2004 and discounts under the Compact during the periods presented are not indicative of future periods. We compensate for these inherent limitations by also utilizing comparable GAAP measures. In spite of the 52 limitations, we find the supplemental information useful to the extent it better enables us and our investors to evaluate bad debt trends and other expenses, and we believe the consistent use of this supplemental information provides us and our investors with reliable period to period comparisons. Costs in our business are largely influenced by volumes and, thus, are generally analyzed as a percent of net operating revenues. Accordingly, we provide this additional analytical information to better enable investors to measure expense categories between periods. Based on requests by shareholders and analysts, we believe that these non GAAP measures are useful as well. The tables that follow illustrate certain actual operating expenses as a percent of net operating revenues, net inpatient revenue per admission and net outpatient revenue per visit for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 as if we had recorded no additional provision for doubtful accounts in the second quarter of 2004 and had not implemented the discounts under the Compact during the periods indicated. The tables include reconciliations of GAAP measures to non GAAP measures. Investors are encouraged, however, to use GAAP measures when evaluating our financial performance. Year ended December 31, 2006 GAAP Amounts Compact Adjustment Non GAAP Amounts (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net operating revenues $ 8,701 $ 930 $ 9,631 Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 3,883 3,883 Supplies 1,587 1,587 Provision for doubtful accounts 530 852 1,382 Other operating expenses 2,014 2,014 As a percent of net operating revenues Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 44.6 % 40.3 % Supplies 18.2 % 16.5 % Provision for doubtful accounts 6.1 % 14.3 % Other operating expenses 23.1 % 20.9 % Continuing general hospitals Net inpatient revenue $ 5,928 $ 471 $ 6,399 Net outpatient revenue $ 2,483 $ 459 $ 2,942 Admissions 578,168 578,168 Outpatient visits 4,280,812 4,280,812 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 10,253 $ 815 $ 11,068 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 580 $ 107 $ 687 53 Year ended December 31, 2005 GAAP Amounts Compact Adjustment Non GAAP Amounts (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net operating revenues $ 8,614 $ 631 $ 9,245 Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 3,922 3,922 Supplies 1,574 1,574 Provision for doubtful accounts 625 580 1,205 Other operating expenses 1,921 1,921 As a percent of net operating revenues Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 45.5 % 42.4 % Supplies 18.3 % 17.0 % Provision for doubtful accounts 7.3 % 13.0 % Other operating expenses 22.3 % 20.8 % Continuing general hospitals Net inpatient revenue $ 5,808 $ 328 $ 6,136 Net outpatient revenue $ 2,494 $ 303 $ 2,797 Admissions 592,698 592,698 Outpatient visits 4,517,119 4,517,119 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,799 $ 554 $ 10,353 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 552 $ 67 $ 619 Year ended December 31, 2004 GAAP Amounts Compact and Bad Debt Adjustments Non GAAP Amounts (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net operating revenues $ 8,768 $ 235 $ 9,003 Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 3,843 3,843 Supplies 1,502 1,502 Provision for doubtful accounts 1,073 46 (1) 1,119 Other operating expenses 1,924 1,924 As a percent of net operating revenues Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 43.8 % 42.7 % Supplies 17.1 % 16.7 % Provision for doubtful accounts 12.2 % 12.4 % Other operating expenses 22.0 % 21.4 % Continuing general hospitals Net inpatient revenue $ 5,784 $ 126 $ 5,910 Net outpatient revenue $ 2,639 $ 109 $ 2,748 Admissions 599,104 599,104 Outpatient visits 4,898,871 4,898,871 Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 9,654 $ 210 $ 9,864 Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 539 $ 22 $ 561 (1) Represents a $216 million impact due to the Compact, offset by $170 million of additional provisions for doubtful accounts. 54 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES CASH REQUIREMENTS Our obligations to make future cash payments under contracts, such as debt and lease agreements, and under contingent commitments, such as standby letters of credit and minimum revenue guarantees, are summarized in the table below, all as of December 31, 2006: Years Ending December 31, Later Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Years (In Millions) Long term debt(1) $ 8,440 $ 381 $ 381 $ 381 $ 381 $ 1,381 $ 5,535 Global civil settlement payable(1) 306 39 97 97 73 Capital lease obligations(1) 23 21 2 Long term non cancelable operating leases 481 149 126 73 42 28 63 Standby letters of credit 190 188 2 Guarantees(2) 78 52 14 5 3 1 3 Asset retirement obligations 173 6 167 Tax liabilities 195 23 140 32 Supplemental executive retirement plan obligations 541 17 18 18 18 18 452 Information technology contract services 1,173 106 109 112 115 118 613 Purchase orders 421 421 Total $ 12,021 $ 1,403 $ 887 $ 686 $ 632 $ 1,546 $ 6,867 (1) Includes interest through maturity date/lease termination. (2) Includes minimum revenue guarantees, primarily related to physicians under relocation agreements and physician groups that provide services at our hospitals, and operating lease guarantees. The standby letters of credit are required principally by our insurers and various states to collateralize our workers compensation programs pursuant to statutory requirements and as security to collateralize the deductible and self insured retentions under some of our professional and general liability insurance programs. The amount of collateral required is principally dependent upon the level of claims activity and our creditworthiness. The insurers require the collateral in case we are unable to meet our obligations to claimants within the deductible or self insured retention layers. The standby letters of credit are issued under our revolving credit facility. Our capital expenditures primarily relate to the expansion and renovation of existing facilities, including amounts to comply with applicable laws and regulations, equipment and information systems additions and replacements, introduction of new medical technologies, design and construction of new buildings and various other capital improvements. Capital expenditures were $693 million, $578 million and $558 million in the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We anticipate that our capital expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2007 will total approximately $800 million. This amount includes expenditures for certain equipment identified in connection with our 2006 assessment of physician and hospital needs that were not purchased in 2006. The anticipated capital expenditures also include approximately $14 million in 2007 to meet California seismic requirements for our remaining California facilities after all planned divestitures. The total estimated future value of capital expenditures necessary to meet the seismic requirements through 2013 is approximately $516 million, which was estimated using an inflation rate of approximately 12%. Our budgeted capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2007 also include approximately $24 million to improve disability access at certain of our facilities, as a result of a consent decree in a class action lawsuit. We expect to spend a total of approximately $158 million on such improvements over the next five years. Interest payments, net of capitalized interest, were $376 million, $357 million and $260 million in the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We anticipate that our gross interest payments, including capitalized interest, for the year ending December 31, 2007 will be approximately $380 million. Income tax payments, net of refunds received, were approximately $215 million in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to a net income tax refund of $530 million in the year ended December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2006, our carryforwards available to offset future taxable income consisted of (1) federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.75 billion expiring in 2024 to 2026, (2) approximately $6 million in alternative minimum tax credits with no expiration, and (3) general business credit carryforwards of approximately $10 million expiring in 2023 to 2026. 55 SOURCES AND USES OF CASH Our liquidity for the year ended December 31, 2006 was derived primarily from sales of facilities, cash on hand, the release of $263 million of restricted cash in connection with our prior letter of credit agreement and insurance recoveries. During 2005, our liquidity was derived primarily from proceeds from the sale of new senior notes, cash flows from operating activities, including a $537 million income tax refund, sales of facilities and unrestricted cash on hand. For the year ended December 31, 2004, our liquidity was derived primarily from sales of facilities and unrestricted cash on hand. Our primary source of operating cash is the collection of accounts receivable. As we experience changes in our business mix and as admissions of uninsured patients grow, our operating cash flow is negatively impacted due to lower levels of cash collections and higher levels of bad debt. During the year ended December 31, 2006, cash used in operating activities was $462 million. The decrease from the prior year in cash generated by operations, after considering the income tax refund in 2005, is due primarily to higher payments for litigation settlements and taxes, partially offset by insurance recoveries. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we had cash provided by operating activities of $763 million. The primary contributor was the income tax refund of $537 million. In addition, lower payments for restructuring and litigation settlements and reduced operating cash requirements related to discontinued operations contributed to the increase from the prior year. During the year ended December 31, 2004, we had cash used by our operating activities of $82 million. The primary contributors were payments made for unfavorable litigation settlements and payments made against reserves for restructuring charges, which approximated $280 million in total, and higher operating cash requirements related to discontinued operations, including a $395 million payment to settle patient litigation related to alleged medically unnecessary coronary procedures performed at our former Redding Medical Center. Net cash proceeds from the sale of new senior notes were $773 million and $954 million in the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We used the proceeds to redeem other long term debt, to retire existing bank loans under our credit agreements at the time and for general corporate purposes. Proceeds from the sales of facilities, long term investments and other assets during 2006, 2005 and 2004 aggregated $244 million, $173 million and $502 million, respectively. During 2004, $88 million was released from an escrow account to fund construction costs. As of December 31, 2004, there was no balance remaining in the escrow account. We have not made any repurchases of our common stock since June 30, 2003 and do not intend to repurchase any shares in 2007. We have issued shares to be held by our benefit plan administrator that are reported as treasury shares until released to our employees as a result of restricted stock unit grants, which entitle employees to receive shares of our common stock in the future. DEBT INSTRUMENTS, GUARANTEES AND RELATED COVENANTS In November 2006, we entered into a five year, $800 million senior secured revolving credit facility that replaced our $250 million letter of credit facility. The revolving credit facility is collateralized by patient accounts receivable at our acute care and specialty hospitals, and bears interest at our option based on the London Interbank Offered Rate plus 175 basis points or Citigroups base rate, as defined in the credit agreement, plus 75 basis points. After six months from the start of the credit agreement, the interest spread over the London Interbank Offered Rate and Citigroups base rate may be reduced by 25 basis points if our leverage ratio, as defined in the credit agreement, is below the defined threshold. The revolving credit agreement includes a provision, which we believe is customary in receivables backed credit facilities, that gives our banks the right to require that proceeds of collections of substantially all of our consolidated accounts receivable be applied directly to repay outstanding loans and other amounts that are due and payable under the revolving credit facility at any time that unused borrowing availability under the revolving credit facility is less than $100 million or if an event of default has occurred and is continuing thereunder. In that event, we would seek to re borrow under the revolving credit facility to satisfy our operating cash requirements. Our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility is subject to conditions precedent that are customary in such facilities, including that no default then exists. The letters of credit outstanding under our previous letter of credit facility were transferred into the revolving credit facility, which reduced the amount available for cash borrowings, but eliminated the restriction on $263 million of cash pledged under the letter of credit facility. At December 31, 2006, there were no borrowings under the revolving credit facility. In January 2005, we sold $800 million of 9% senior notes due in 2005. In February 2005, with a portion of the net proceeds from that sale, we redeemed the remaining $400 million aggregate principal amount outstanding on our senior notes due in 2006 and 2007. As a result, we have no significant long term debt due until 56 December 2011. The maturities of over 90% of our long term debt now fall between December 2011 and January 2015. An additional $450 million of long term debt is not due until 2031. In June 2004, we sold $1 billion of 97/8% senior notes due in 2014. A portion of the proceeds was used to repurchase $552 million of senior notes due in 2006, 2007 and 2008. On December 31, 2004, we terminated our previous five year revolving credit agreement and replaced it with a one year letter of credit facility. The letter of credit facility provided for the issuance of up to $250 million in letters of credit and did not provide for any cash borrowings. The principal purpose of the letter of credit facility was to provide for the continuance of $216 million in letters of credit outstanding under the terminated revolving credit agreement at that time. From time to time, we expect to engage in various capital markets, bank credit and other financing activities depending on our needs and financing alternatives available at that time. (See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) We are currently in compliance with all covenants and conditions in our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $190 million of letters of credit outstanding under the revolving credit facility. We had approximately $784 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand and borrowing capacity of $596 million under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2006 to fund our operations and capital expenditures. LIQUIDITY We believe that existing cash and cash equivalents on hand, availability under our revolving credit facility, future cash provided by operating activities, collection of income taxes receivable and sales proceeds from our hospitals held for sale should be adequate to meet our current cash needs. It should also be adequate to finance planned capital expenditures, payments on the current portion of our long term debt and other presently known operating needs. Long term liquidity for debt service will be dependent on improved cash provided by operating activities and, given favorable market conditions, future borrowings or refinancings. However, our cash needs could be materially affected by the deterioration in our results of operations, as well as the various uncertainties discussed in this and other sections, which could require us to pursue any number of financing options, including, but not limited to, additional borrowings, debt refinancings, asset sales or other financing alternatives. The level, if any, of these financing sources cannot be assured. We are aggressively identifying and implementing further actions to reduce costs and enhance our operating performance, including cash flow. Among the areas being addressed are volume growth, managed care payer contracting, procurement efficiencies, cost standardization, bad debt expense reduction initiatives, underperforming hospitals and certain hospital and overhead costs not related to patient care. Although these initiatives may result in improved performance, that performance may remain somewhat below our hospital management peers because of geographic and other differences in hospital portfolios. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have no off balance sheet arrangements that may have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources, except for $268 million of standby letters of credit and guarantees as of December 31, 2006 (shown in the cash requirements table above). RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See Note 18 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP, we must use estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. We regularly evaluate the 57 accounting policies and estimates we use. In general, we base the estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, given the particular circumstances in which we operate. Actual results may vary from those estimates. We consider our critical accounting estimates to be those that (1) involve significant judgments and uncertainties, (2) require estimates that are more difficult for management to determine, and (3) may produce materially different outcomes under different conditions or when using different assumptions. Our critical accounting estimates cover the following areas: Recognition of net operating revenues, including contractual allowances Provisions for doubtful accounts Accruals for general and professional liability risks Accruals for supplemental executive retirement plans Accruals for litigation losses Impairment of long lived assets and goodwill Asset retirement obligations Accounting for income taxes Accounting for stock based compensation REVENUE RECOGNITION We recognize net operating revenues in the period in which services are performed. Net operating revenues consist primarily of net patient service revenues that are recorded based on established billing rates (i.e., gross charges), less estimated discounts for contractual and other allowances, principally for patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and managed care and other health plans and uninsured patients under the Compact. Revenues under the traditional fee for service Medicare and Medicaid programs are based primarily on prospective payment systems. Discounts for retrospectively cost based revenues, which were more prevalent in earlier periods, and certain other payments, such as disproportionate share, GME, IME and bad debt expense, which are based on our hospitals cost reports, are estimated using historical trends and current factors. Cost report settlements under these programs are subject to audit by Medicare and Medicaid auditors and administrative and judicial review, and it can take several years until final settlement of such matters are determined and completely resolved. Because the laws, regulations, instructions and rule interpretations governing Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement are complex and change frequently, the estimates recorded by us could change by material amounts. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we completed the implementation of a new system and estimation process for recording Medicare net patient revenue and estimated cost report settlements. This resulted in recording accruals to more closely reflect the expected final settlements on our cost reports. For filed cost reports, we record the accrual based on those cost reports and subsequent activity, and record a valuation allowance against those cost reports based on historical settlement trends. The accrual for periods for which a cost report is yet to be filed is recorded based on estimates of what we expect to report on the filed cost reports, and a corresponding valuation allowance is recorded as previously described. Cost reports must be filed generally within five months after the end of the annual cost report reporting period. After the cost report is filed, the accrual and corresponding valuation allowance may need to be adjusted. Revenues under managed care plans are based primarily on payment terms involving predetermined rates per diagnosis, per diem rates, discounted fee for service rates and or other similar contractual arrangements. These revenues are also subject to review and possible audit by the payers. The payers are billed for patient services on an individual patient basis. An individual patients bill is subject to adjustment on a patient by patient basis in the ordinary course of business by the payers following their review and adjudication of each particular bill. We estimate the discounts for contractual allowances at the individual hospital level utilizing billing data on an individual patient basis. At the end of each month, on an individual hospital basis, we attempt to estimate our expected reimbursement for patients of managed care plans based on the applicable contract terms. These estimates 58 are continuously reviewed for accuracy by taking into consideration known contract terms as well as payment history. Although we do not separately accumulate and disclose the aggregate amount of adjustments to the estimated reimbursements for every patient bill, we believe our estimation and review process enables us to identify instances on a timely basis where such estimates need to be revised. We do not believe there were any adjustments to estimates of individual patient bills that were material to our revenues. In addition, on a corporate wide basis, we do not record any general provision for adjustments to estimated contractual allowances for managed care plans. Revenues related to self pay patients may qualify for a discount under the Compact, whereby the gross charges based on established billing rates would be reduced by an estimated discount for contractual allowance. We believe that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from final determination of amounts earned under all the above arrangements. We know of no material claims, disputes or unsettled matters with any payers that would affect our revenues for which we have not adequately provided for in our Consolidated Financial Statements. PROVISIONS FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS Although outcomes vary, our policy is to attempt to collect amounts due from patients, including co payments and deductibles due from patients with insurance, at the time of service while complying with all federal and state laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (EMTALA). Generally, as required by EMTALA, patients may not be denied emergency treatment due to inability to pay. Therefore, services, including the legally required medical screening examination and stabilization of the patient, are performed prior to the verification of the patients insurance, if any. In non emergency circumstances or for elective procedures and services, it is our policy to verify insurance prior to a patient being treated. We provide for an allowance against accounts receivable that could become uncollectible by establishing an allowance to reduce the carrying value of such receivables to their estimated net realizable value. We estimate this allowance based on the aging of our accounts receivables by hospital, our historical collection experience by hospital and for each type of payer, and other relevant factors. Our practice is to reduce the net carrying value of self pay accounts receivable, including accounts related to the co payments and deductibles due from patients with insurance, to their estimated net realizable value at the time of billing. Generally, uncollected balances are assigned to our in house collection agency between 120 to 180 days, once patient responsibility has been identified. When accounts are assigned for collections by the hospital, the accounts are completely written off the hospitals books through the provision for doubtful accounts, and an estimated future recovery amount is calculated and recorded as a receivable on the hospitals books at the same time. The estimated future recovery amount is adjusted based on the aging of the accounts and changes to actual recovery rates. The estimated future recovery amount for self pay accounts is gradually written down whereby it is fully reserved if the amount is not paid within two years after the account is assigned to our in house collection agency. Managed care accounts are collected through our hospital based business offices or regional business offices, whereby the account balances remain in the hospitals patient accounting system and on the hospitals books, and are adjusted based on an analysis of the net realizable value as they age. Managed care accounts collected through our hospital based business offices or regional business offices are gradually written down whereby they are fully reserved if the accounts are not paid within one year. Changes in the collectibility of aged managed care accounts receivable are ongoing and impact our provision for doubtful accounts. We continue to experience payment pressure from managed care companies concerning amounts of past billings. We aggressively pursue collection of these accounts receivable using all means at our disposal, including arbitration and litigation, but we may not be successful. ACCRUALS FOR GENERAL AND PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY RISKS We accrue for estimated professional and general liability claims, to the extent not covered by insurance, when they are probable and reasonably estimable. We maintain reserves, which are based on actuarial estimates by an independent third party, for the portion of our professional liability risks, including incurred but not reported claims, to the extent we do not have insurance coverage. Our estimated liability is based on a number of factors, including the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimates of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, the timing of historical payments and risk free discount rates used to determine the present value of future cash flows. 59 Our estimated reserve for professional and general liability claims will change significantly if future claims differ from historical trends. In addition, because of the complexity of the claims, the extended period of time to settle the claims and the wide range of potential outcomes, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. ACCRUALS FOR SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLANS Our supplemental executive retirement plan benefit obligations are calculated using actuarial concepts, within the framework of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post Retirement Plans. That statement requires the recognition of the funded status of the plan (projected benefit obligation net of the fair value of plan assets) as an asset or liability on the balance sheet with changes in the funded status recognized as an increase or decrease in accumulated other comprehensive income. The discount rate is a critical assumption in determining the elements of expense and liability measurement. We evaluate this critical assumption annually. Other assumptions include employee demographic factors, such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and rate of compensation increase. The discount rate enables us to state expected future cash payments for these benefits as a present value on the measurement date. The guideline for setting this rate is a high quality, long term corporate bond rate. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension expense. We increased our discount rate to 5.75% in 2006 from 5.50% in 2005 to reflect market interest rate conditions at our December 31, 2006 measurement date. The assumed discount rate for pension plans reflects the market rates for high quality corporate bonds currently available. A one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would increase total net periodic pension expense for fiscal 2007 by $1.0 million and would increase the projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2006 by $27.7 million. A one percentage point increase in the assumed discount rate would increase total net periodic pension expense and decrease the projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2006 by $0.3 million and $23.2 million, respectively. ACCRUALS FOR LITIGATION LOSSES We record reserves for litigation losses in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (SFAS 5). Under SFAS 5, a loss contingency is recorded if a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. We record probable loss contingencies based on the best estimate of the loss. If a range of loss can be reasonably estimated, but no single amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within the range, the minimum amount in the range is accrued. These estimates are often initially developed earlier than when the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are adjusted if additional information becomes known. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS We evaluate our long lived assets for possible impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset, or related group of assets, may not be recoverable from estimated future undiscounted cash flows. We calculate the amount of an impairment, if the carrying value of the long lived assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. The fair value of the assets is estimated based on independent appraisals, established market values of comparable assets or internal estimates of future net cash flows expected to result from the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. The estimates of these future cash flows are based on assumptions and projections we believe to be reasonable and supportable. They require our subjective judgments and take into account assumptions about revenue and expense growth rates. These assumptions may vary by type of facility and presume stable or improving results at our hospitals, depending on their circumstances. If the presumed level of performance does not occur as expected, impairment may result. We report long lived assets to be disposed of at the lower of their carrying amounts or fair values less costs to sell. In such circumstances, our estimates of fair value are based on independent appraisals, established market prices for comparable assets or internal estimates of future net cash flows. These fair value estimates can change by material amounts in subsequent periods. Many factors and assumptions can impact the estimates, including the future financial results of our hospitals, how the hospitals are operated in the future, changes in health care industry trends and regulations, and the nature of the ultimate disposition of the assets. In certain cases, these fair value estimates assume the highest and best use of the assets in the future to a market place participant is other than as a hospital. 60 In these cases, the estimates are based on the fair value of the real property and equipment if utilized other than as a hospital. The impairment recognized does not include the costs of closing the hospital or other future operating costs, which could be substantial. Accordingly, the ultimate net cash realized from the hospital, should we choose to sell it, could be significantly less than its impaired value. IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the fair value of assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in purchase business combinations and determined to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but instead are subject to impairment tests performed at least annually. For goodwill, we perform the test at the reporting unit level, as defined by appropriate accounting standards, when events occur that require an evaluation to be performed or at least annually. If we determine the carrying value of goodwill is impaired, or if the carrying value of a business that is to be sold or otherwise disposed of exceeds its fair value, then we reduce the carrying value, including any allocated goodwill, to fair value. Estimates of fair value are based on independent appraisals, established market prices for comparative assets or internal estimates of future net cash flows and presume stable or improving results at our hospitals, depending on their circumstances. If the presumed level of performance does not occur as expected, impairment may result. ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS We recognize the fair value of a liability for legal obligations associated with asset retirements in the period in which it is incurred, in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS 143) and Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, if a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the obligation can be made. When the liability is initially recorded, we capitalize the cost of the asset retirement obligation by increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost associated with the retirement obligation is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. Upon settlement of the obligation, any difference between the cost to settle the asset retirement obligation and the liability recorded is recognized as a gain or loss in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The calculation of the asset retirement obligation is a critical accounting estimate because factors used in calculating the obligation can change, which could result in larger or smaller estimated obligations that could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The significant assumptions and estimates used in the calculation include the following: Estimated settlement date of the obligation The year when the asset is no longer deemed to have any future useful life, and the facility or asset is closed, or otherwise disposed of, is when final settlement of the obligation is estimated to occur, and is generally based on the remaining years of useful life of our facilities or the expiration of a lease. Changes in demand, competing facilities, economic conditions, technology advancements, state regulations and availability of physicians, nurses and staff can affect the estimated settlement date. Retirement obligation costs Estimated based on our knowledge of the applicable laws and regulations, known facts and circumstances of specific obligations, and cost estimates obtained from industry consultants or our knowledge and past experience. Asbestos presence The estimated amount of asbestos in our facilities was determined by our construction staff and, in certain cases, external environmental specialist site visits based on their knowledge of the architectural state of the facility, the age of the facility and whether any renovation had recently occurred. Due to facilities changing ownership several times and our experience during renovations of inconsistent use of building materials, it cannot be known with certainty the exact amount of asbestos present or the exact location of all asbestos that may need to be remediated. Inflation rate The inflation rate applied to current remediation costs is used to estimate the future value of the remediation costs at the time the retirement obligation is estimated to be settled. We have assumed an inflation rate of 5% based on the nature of the retirement obligations. Discount rate The estimated costs at the anticipated settlement date are discounted back to the year the asset was built or acquired to determine the amount of the obligation when it was incurred. The estimate of the initial 61 obligation has been accreted to the current date in accordance with SFAS 143. The discount rate represents our credit adjusted, risk free rate of interest, which is estimated to be 9.5%. Using these estimates and assumptions, the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle, fixed asset cost, accumulated depreciation and the asset retirement obligation were calculated for each of our facilities that have known asset retirement obligations. Subsequent changes to these assumptions will affect future depreciation and accretion expense. ACCOUNTING FOR INCOME TAXES We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS 109. This approach requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Developing our provision for income taxes and analysis of potential tax exposure items requires significant judgment and knowledge of federal and state income tax laws, regulations and strategies, including the determination of deferred tax assets and liabilities and, if necessary, any valuation allowances that may be required for deferred tax assets. We assess the realization of our deferred tax assets to determine whether an income tax valuation allowance is required. Based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, and the weight of that evidence to the extent such evidence can be objectively verified, we determine whether it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. The main factors that we consider include: cumulative losses in recent years; income/losses expected in future years; unsettled circumstances that, if unfavorably resolved, would adversely affect future operations and profit levels; the availability, or lack thereof, of taxable income in prior carryback periods that would limit realization of tax benefits; the carryforward period associated with the deferred tax assets and liabilities; and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. While we believe we have provided adequately for our income tax receivables or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements, adverse determinations by taxing authorities or changes in tax laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK BASED COMPENSATION Effective January 1, 2006, we account for the cost of stock based compensation using the fair value method required by SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payments (SFAS 123(R)), under which the cost of stock option grants and other incentive awards to employees, directors, advisors and consultants generally is measured by the fair value of the awards on their grant date and is recognized over the vesting periods of the awards, whether or not the awards had any intrinsic value during the period. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we accounted for the cost of stock based compensation using the fair value method recommended by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS 123). Under SFAS 123(R), we estimate the fair value of stock option grants as of the date of each grant, using a binomial lattice model. The key assumptions of the binomial lattice model include: 62 Expected volatility Expected dividend yields Expected life Expected forfeiture rate Risk free interest rate range Early exercise threshold Early exercise rate The expected volatility used in the binomial lattice model incorporates historical and implied share price volatility and is based on an analysis of historical prices of our stock and open market exchanged options, and was developed in consultation with an outside valuation specialist. The expected volatility reflects the historical volatility for a duration consistent with the contractual life of the options, and the volatility implied by the trading of options to purchase our stock on open market exchanges. The historical share price volatility excludes the movements in our stock price during the period October 1, 2002 through December 31, 2002 due to the extreme volatility of our stock price during this time period. The expected life of options granted is derived from the output of the binomial lattice model, and represents the period of time that the options are expected to be outstanding for the distinct group of employees. This model incorporates an early exercise assumption in the event of a significant increase in stock price. The risk free interest rates are based on zero coupon United States Treasury yields in effect at the date of grant consistent with the expected exercise timeframes. Under SFAS 123, we estimated the fair value of stock option grants as of the date of each grant, using a Black Scholes option pricing model. This model incorporates our reasoned assumptions regarding (1) the expected volatility of our common stock price, (2) estimated risk free interest rates, and (3) the expected dividend yield, if any, all over the expected lives of the respective options. We do not adjust the model for non transferability, risk of forfeiture or the vesting restrictions of the option all of which would reduce the option value if factored into our calculations. The most critical of the above assumptions in our calculations of fair value is the expected life of an option, because it, in turn, is a principal part of our calculations of expected volatility and interest rates. Accordingly, we reevaluate our estimate of expected life at each major grant date. Our reevaluation is based on recent exercise patterns and is reviewed from time to time by an outside, independent consulting firm. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The table below presents information about certain of our market sensitive financial instruments as of December 31, 2006. The fair values were determined based on quoted market prices for the same or similar instruments. At December 31, 2006, we had no borrowings subject to or with variable interest rates. Maturity Date, Year Ending December 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Fair Value (Dollars in Millions) Fixed rate long term debt $ 22 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1,001 $ 3,853 $ 4,879 $ 4,594 Average interest rates 9.3 % 9.3 % 9.3 % 9.3 % 6.7 % 8.5 % 8.2 % We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage or prepayment features. At December 31, 2006, we had long term, market sensitive investments held by our captive insurance subsidiaries. Our market risk associated with our investments in debt securities classified as non current assets is substantially mitigated by the long term nature and type of the investments in the portfolio. At December 31, 2006, we had accumulated unrealized losses of approximately $1 million related to our captive insurance companies investment portfolios. We have no affiliation with partnerships, trusts or other entities (sometimes referred to as special purpose or variable interest entities) whose purpose is to facilitate off balance sheet financial transactions or similar arrangements. Thus, we have no exposure to the financing, liquidity, market or credit risks associated with such entities. 63 
 
