ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION TO MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS The purpose of this section, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, is to provide a narrative explanation of our financial statements that enables investors to better understand our business, to enhance our overall financial disclosures, to provide the context within which financial information may be analyzed, and to provide information about the quality of, and potential variability of, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unless otherwise indicated, all financial and statistical information included herein relates to our continuing operations, with dollar amounts expressed in millions (except per share amounts). This information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. It includes the following sections: Executive Overview Sources of Revenue Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Recently Issued Accounting Standards Critical Accounting Estimates EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW KEY DEVELOPMENTS We continue to focus on the execution of our turnaround strategies. While we have seen certain areas of improvement, we are still facing several industry and company specific challenges that continue to negatively affect our progress. We are dedicated to improving our patients, shareholders and other stakeholders confidence in us. We believe we will accomplish that by providing quality care and generating positive growth and earnings at our hospitals. Key developments include the following: Sale of North Ridge Medical Center In February 2008, we signed a definitive agreement to sell North Ridge Medical Center in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. We expect the sale to be completed in the second quarter of 2008, subject to regulatory approval. New Agreements with Managed Care Payers Since mid 2007, we have entered into new multi year national agreements with Aetna, CIGNA and UnitedHealthcare, as well as regional contracts with Blue Cross of California, Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas and Coventry Health Care. With each of these agreements, members will have access to all of our acute care hospitals in the applicable geographic region covered under the agreement. 27 Union Agreements During 2007, we entered into new collective bargaining agreements with two labor unions that cover employees at certain hospitals in California and Florida. The agreements set stable and competitive wage increases and provide for greater predictability with respect to union organizing efforts. We also entered into separate peace accords that provide each union with limited access to attempt to organize our employees. In addition, we entered into a labor contract for nurses represented at four of our hospitals in California. Sale of Shelby Regional Medical Center In November 2007, we completed the previously disclosed sale of Shelby Regional Medical Center in Center, Texas. Pretax proceeds from the sale were approximately $2 million, which will be used for general corporate purposes. Departure of Chief Medical Officer Jennifer Daley, M.D., our former chief medical officer, resigned in September 2007. She will continue to serve as a senior advisor to us on clinical quality initiatives. Stephen Newman, M.D., our chief operating officer, will oversee our clinical quality department until a successor to Dr. Daley is found. Expiration of Lease to Operate Two Hospitals In August 2007, our lease agreement with the Metrocrest Hospital Authority (the Authority) expired, and we ceased to operate RHD Memorial Medical Center and Trinity Medical Center, both in the Dallas, Texas area. We had previously disclosed that another company had been selected to manage these two hospitals after the expiration of our lease. It is our understanding that the Authority has not yet finalized the selection of an operator to manage the hospitals on a long term basis. Realignment of Regions Also in August 2007, we streamlined our regional operating structure to further reduce our administrative overhead costs. Our Central Northeast region was eliminated, and our hospitals in Missouri and Tennessee became part of the renamed Central region (formerly, the Texas region). Our two Philadelphia hospitals now form a separate market reporting directly to our chief operating officer. Sale of Two Pennsylvania Hospitals In July 2007, we completed the sale of Roxborough Memorial Hospital and Warminster Hospital in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania area. Pretax proceeds from the sale were approximately $25.5 million, consisting of $15.5 million in cash, which will be used for general corporate purposes, and a $10 million note due in December 2009, of which we collected $5 million in October 2007 when the buyer subsequently sold Warminster Hospital. Acquisition of Coastal Carolina Medical Center In June 2007, we purchased Coastal Carolina Medical Center, a 41 bed acute care hospital in Hardeeville, South Carolina, for approximately $36 million. We intend to continue to operate Coastal Carolina as a full service community hospital and will seek to enhance services to meet the communitys needs, in coordination with our nearby Hilton Head Regional Medical Center. Sale of Lindy Boggs Medical Center In May 2007, we announced that we had completed the sale of the real estate of our former Lindy Boggs Medical Center, which sustained significant damage from Hurricane Katrina and had been closed since August 2005. Appointment of New Member to our Board of Directors In April 2007, we announced that John Ellis Jeb Bush, former Governor of the State of Florida, had been named to our board of directors. Mr. Bush was elected as a director at our 2007 annual meeting of shareholders held in May. Retirement of Our Chief Accounting Officer In April 2007, we announced that Timothy L. Pullen, former executive vice president and chief accounting officer, had decided to retire. We also announced that Daniel J. Cancelmi, vice president and controller, would serve as our principal accounting officer. Civil Settlement Reached with the SEC In April 2007, we entered into a $10 million civil settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission that concluded the SECs investigation into the adequacy of our disclosures regarding Medicare outlier payments prior to November 2002 and the appropriateness of certain of our managed care contractual allowance reserves. In the three months ended December 31, 2006, we recorded an accrual of $10 million as an estimated liability to address the potential resolution of the SEC investigation, which we paid in April 2007. Sale of Graduate Hospital In March 2007, we announced the completion of the sale of Graduate Hospital in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania for pretax proceeds of approximately $16.5 million, which will be used for general corporate purposes. 28 SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGES Our June 2006 global civil settlement with the federal government and other previously announced settlements have resolved several material threats to our company and should help us move forward in our turnaround strategy. However, there are still significant challenges, both company specific and industry wide, that will impact the timing of our turnaround. Below is a summary of these items. Company Specific Volume Challenge We believe the reasons for declines in our patient volumes include, but are not limited to, decreases in the demand for invasive cardiac procedures, increased competition, managed care contract negotiations or terminations, population trends in Florida, and the impact of our litigation and government investigations. In addition, we believe the challenges we face in physician recruitment, retention and attrition continue to be a primary contributor to our volume declines. Our operations depend on the efforts, abilities and experience of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, most of whom have no long term contractual relationship with us. It is essential to our ongoing business that we attract and retain an appropriate number of quality physicians in all specialties on our medical staffs. Although overall we had a net gain in physicians added to our medical staffs during 2007, in some of our markets, physician recruitment and retention are still affected by a shortage of physicians in certain sought after specialties and the difficulties that physicians experience in obtaining affordable malpractice insurance or finding insurers willing to provide such insurance. Other issues facing physicians, such as proposed decreases in Medicare payments, are forcing them to consider alternatives including relocating their practices or retiring sooner than expected. In some of our markets, we have not been able to attract physicians to our medical staffs at a rate to offset the physicians relocating or retiring. We are taking a number of steps to address the problem of volume decline; however, due to the concentration of our hospitals in California, Florida and Texas, we may not be able to mitigate some factors contributing to volume declines. One of our initiatives is our Physician Relationship Program, which is centered around understanding the needs of physicians who admit patients both to our hospitals and to our competitors hospitals and responding to those needs with changes and improvements in our hospitals and operations. We have targeted capital spending in order to address specific needs or growth opportunities of our hospitals, which is expected to have a positive impact on their volumes. We have also sought to include all of our hospitals in the affected geographic area when negotiating new managed care contracts, which should result in additional volumes at facilities that were not previously a part of such managed care networks. In addition, we are completing clinical service line market demand analyses and profitability assessments to determine which services are highly valued that can be emphasized and marketed to improve results. This Targeted Growth Initiative has resulted in some reductions in unprofitable service lines in several locations, which have had a slightly negative impact on our volumes. However, the elimination of these unprofitable service lines will allow us to focus more resources on services that are more profitable. Our Commitment to Quality initiative, which we launched in 2003, is further helping position us to competitively meet the volume challenge. We continue to work with physicians to implement the most current evidence based techniques to improve the way we provide care. As a result of these efforts, our hospitals have improved substantially in quality metrics reported by the government and have been recognized by several managed care companies for their quality of care. We believe that quality of care improvements will continue to have the effect of increasing physician and patient satisfaction, potentially improving our volumes as a result. Significant Industry Trends Bad Debt Like other organizations in the health care industry, we continue to provide services to a high volume of uninsured patients and more patients than in prior years with an increased burden of co payments and deductibles as a result of changes in their health care plans. The discounting components of our Compact with Uninsured Patients (Compact) have reduced our provision for doubtful accounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements, but they are not expected to mitigate the net economic effects of treating uninsured or underinsured patients. We continue to experience a high level of uncollectible accounts. Our collection efforts have improved, and we continue to focus, where applicable, on placement of patients in various government programs such as Medicaid. However, unless our business mix shifts toward a greater number of insured patients or the trend of higher co payments and deductibles reverses, we anticipate this high level of uncollectible accounts to continue. 29 Cost Pressures Labor and supply expenses remain a significant cost pressure facing us as well as the industry in general. Controlling labor costs in an environment of fluctuating patient volumes and increased labor union activity will continue to be a challenge. Also, inflation and technology improvements are driving supply costs higher, and our efforts to control supply costs through product standardization, bulk purchases and improved utilization are constantly challenged. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Our turnaround timeframe has been and continues to be influenced by company specific challenges and industry trends, including decreasing volumes, declining demand for inpatient cardiac procedures and high levels of bad debt, that continue to negatively affect our revenue growth and operating expenses. We believe our future profitability will be achieved through volume growth, appropriate reimbursement levels and cost control across our portfolio of hospitals. In order to disclose trends using data comparable to the prior year, operating statistics throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis are presented on a same hospital basis, where noted, and exclude the results of Coastal Carolina Medical Center, which we have not owned for a full 12 months. Below are some of these statistics and financial highlights for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Results of operations Year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the year ended December 31, 2006: Same hospital net inpatient revenue per patient day and per admission increased by 5.2% and 4.1%, respectively, primarily due to the effect of higher negotiated levels of reimbursement under our managed care contracts, partially offset by same hospital patient days and admissions that were down 2.1% and 1.0%, respectively. Same hospital net outpatient revenue per visit increased 10.1%, while same hospital outpatient visits declined 2.0%. The increase in revenue per visit is primarily due to the effect of higher negotiated levels of reimbursement under our managed care contracts. The decline in outpatient visits is primarily due to increased competition. Favorable net adjustments for prior year cost reports and related valuation allowances, primarily attributable to Medicare and Medicaid, were $47 million in 2007 compared to $37 million in 2006. Loss per share from continuing operations was $0.10 in 2007 compared to $1.73 in 2006. Results of operations Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005: Net inpatient revenue per patient day and per admission increased by 7.1% and 4.8%, respectively, primarily due to the effect of higher negotiated levels of reimbursement under our managed care contracts, partially offset by additional discounts under the Compact during the phase in process. Patient days were down 4.3% and admissions were down 2.2% from 2005. Net outpatient revenue per visit increased 5.6%, while outpatient visits declined 5.3%. The increase in revenue per visit is primarily due to higher Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and the effect of higher negotiated levels of reimbursement under our managed care contracts, partially offset by additional discounts under the Compact during the phase in process. Loss per share from continuing operations of $1.73 in 2006 increased from the loss per share of $0.58 in 2005 primarily due to litigation settlements and impairments in 2006. 30 The table below shows the pretax and after tax impact on continuing operations for each of the three years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 of the following items: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Expense) Income Change in prior year liability estimates for retirement plans $ (3 ) $ 14 $ 31 Impairment of long lived assets and goodwill, and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries (60 ) (338 ) (38 ) Hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs 3 14 (12 ) Litigation and investigation costs (13 ) (766 ) (212 ) Loss from early extinguishment of debt (15 ) Pretax impact $ (73 ) $ (1,076 ) $ (246 ) Deferred tax asset valuation allowance and other tax adjustments $ 37 $ (63 ) $ (43 ) Total after tax impact $ (8 ) $ (795 ) $ (198 ) Diluted per share impact of above items $ (0.02 ) $ (1.69 ) $ (0.42 ) Diluted loss per share, including above items $ (0.10 ) $ (1.73 ) $ (0.58 ) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OVERVIEW Net cash provided by operating activities was $326 million in 2007 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $462 million in 2006. The increase of $788 million in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to payments for legal settlements that were $592 million lower in 2007 and net income tax refunds of $162 million received in 2007 compared to net income tax payments of $215 million in 2006, partially offset by $161 million of insurance recoveries received in 2006. The remaining decrease of $20 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to the timing of various other payables and receivables. Purchases of property and equipment were $676 million and $681 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, in 2007, we spent approximately $36 million to purchase a hospital in South Carolina and $67 million for construction of hospitals in El Paso, Texas and Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina. In 2006, we bought out the joint venture interest of a discontinued operation and purchased certain real estate from the joint venture partner for $28 million and spent $12 million on construction costs for the El Paso hospital. Proceeds from the sales of facilities and other assets related to discontinued operations during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 aggregated $91 million and $226 million, respectively. In 2007, we also received proceeds of $31 million from our investment in Metrocrest Hospital Authority bonds (essentially, the source of these proceeds was our final payment of $31 million under our lease agreement with the Authority to operate two hospitals in the Dallas, Texas area) and $82 million from the cash surrender value or basis reduction of certain life insurance policies. In addition, in 2007 we received $6 million of insurance recoveries for hurricane related property damage. In 2006, we received $115 million in insurance proceeds for property damage caused by hurricanes in addition to the $161 million of insurance recoveries received during 2006 for business interruption and other hurricane related costs ($276 million in total). In November 2006, we entered into a five year, $800 million senior secured revolving credit facility that replaced our $250 million letter of credit facility. The revolving credit facility is collateralized by patient accounts receivable at our acute care and specialty hospitals, and bears interest at our option based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 175 basis points or Citigroups base rate, as defined in the credit agreement, plus 75 basis points. At December 31, 2007, there were no cash borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility, and we had approximately $232 million of letters of credit outstanding. In addition, we had approximately $572 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand and borrowing capacity of $564 million under our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2007. We are currently in compliance with all covenants and conditions in our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes. (See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) SOURCES OF REVENUE We receive revenues for patient services from a variety of sources, primarily managed care payers and the federal Medicare program, as well as state Medicaid programs, indemnity based health insurance companies and self pay patients (patients who do not have health insurance and are not covered by some other form of third party arrangement). 31 The table below shows the sources of net patient revenues on a same hospital basis, expressed as percentages of net patient revenues from all sources: Years Ended December 31, Net Patient Revenues from: 2007 2006 2005 Medicare 25.8 % 26.6 % 27.6 % Medicaid 8.4 % 8.9 % 8.2 % Managed care governmental 12.0 % 11.0 % 8.9 % Managed care commercial 41.9 % 41.4 % 42.2 % Indemnity, self pay and other 11.9 % 12.1 % 13.1 % Our payer mix on same hospital admissions basis, expressed as a percentage of total admissions from all sources, is shown below: Years Ended December 31, Admissions from: 2007 2006 2005 Medicare 31.2 % 32.2 % 33.6 % Medicaid 12.3 % 12.6 % 13.1 % Managed care governmental 18.9 % 17.5 % 15.3 % Managed care commercial 28.7 % 29.0 % 29.8 % Indemnity, self pay and other 8.9 % 8.7 % 8.2 % The increase in managed care governmental admissions since 2005 is primarily due to an overall shift in our patient mix from Medicare and Medicaid to managed Medicare and managed Medicaid as further discussed below. GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS The Medicare program, the nations largest health insurance program, is administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Medicare is a health insurance program primarily for individuals 65 years of age and older, certain younger people with disabilities, and people with end stage renal disease, and is provided without regard to income or assets. Medicaid is a program that pays for medical assistance for certain individuals and families with low incomes and resources, and is jointly funded by the federal government and state governments. Medicaid is the largest source of funding for medical and health related services for the nations poor and most vulnerable individuals. These government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease payments from these government programs in the future, as well as affect the cost of providing services to our patients and the timing of payments to our facilities. We are unable to predict the effect of future government health care funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payers are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payers is limited, or if we or one or more of our subsidiaries hospitals are excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid program or any other government health care program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 32 Medicare Medicare offers its beneficiaries different ways to obtain their medical benefits. One option, the Original Medicare Plan, is a fee for service payment system. The other option, called Medicare Advantage, includes managed care, preferred provider organization, private fee for service and specialty plans. The major components of our net patient revenues for services provided to patients enrolled in the Original Medicare Plan for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 are set forth in the table below: Years Ended December 31, Revenue Descriptions 2007 2006 2005 Diagnosis related group operating $ 1,209 $ 1,219 $ 1,244 Diagnosis related group capital 119 122 128 Outlier 75 75 72 Outpatient 375 357 349 Disproportionate share 214 205 207 Direct Graduate and Indirect Medical Education 108 109 106 Other(1) 93 83 103 Adjustments for prior year cost reports and related valuation allowances 44 38 48 Total Medicare net patient revenues $ 2,237 $ 2,208 $ 2,257 (1) The other revenue category includes skilled nursing facilities, inpatient psychiatric facilities, inpatient rehabilitation facilities, one prospective payment system (PPS) exempt cancer hospital, one long term acute care hospital, other revenue adjustments, and adjustments related to the estimates for current year cost reports and related valuation allowances. A general description of the types of payments we receive for services provided to patients enrolled in the Original Medicare Plan is provided below. Recent regulatory and legislative updates to the terms of these payment systems and their effect on our revenues can be found beginning on page 36. Acute Care Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System Diagnosis Related Group Payments Sections 1886(d) and 1886(g) of the Social Security Act (the Act) set forth a system of payments for the operating and capital costs of inpatient acute care hospital admissions based on a prospective payment system. Under the inpatient prospective payment system (IPPS), Medicare payments for hospital inpatient operating services are made at predetermined rates for each hospital discharge. Discharges are classified according to a system of Medicare severity adjusted diagnosis related groups (MS DRGs), which group patients with similar clinical characteristics that are expected to require similar amounts of hospital resources. CMS assigns to each MS DRG a relative weight that represents the average resources required to care for cases in that particular MS DRG, relative to the average resources used to treat cases in all MS DRGs. The base payment amount for the operating component of the MS DRG payment is comprised of an average standardized amount that is divided into a labor related share and a nonlabor related share. Both the labor related share of operating base payments and the base payment amount for capital costs are adjusted by geographic variations in labor and capital costs. These base payments are multiplied by the relative weight of the MS DRG assigned to each case. Although these payments are adjusted for area labor and capital cost differentials, the adjustments do not take into consideration an individual hospitals operating and capital costs. The MS DRG operating and capital base rates are updated annually, giving consideration to the increased cost of goods and services purchased by hospitals. Outlier Payments Outlier payments are additional payments made to hospitals for treating Medicare patients who are costlier to treat than the average patient in the same MS DRG. To qualify as a cost outlier, a hospitals billed charges, adjusted to cost, must exceed the payment rate for the MS DRG by a fixed threshold established annually by CMS. The Medicare fiscal intermediary calculates the cost of a claim by multiplying the billed charges by a cost to charge ratio that is typically based on the hospitals most recent filed cost report. If the computed cost exceeds the sum of the MS DRG payment plus the fixed threshold, the hospital receives 80% of the difference as an outlier payment. Under the Act, CMS must project aggregate annual outlier payments to all PPS hospitals to be not less than 5% nor more than 6% of total MS DRG payments (Outlier Percentage). The Outlier Percentage is determined by dividing total outlier payments by the sum of MS DRG and outlier payments. CMS annually adjusts the fixed threshold to bring projected outlier payments within the mandated limit. A change to the fixed threshold affects total outlier payments by changing (1) the number of cases that qualify for outlier payments, and (2) the dollar amount hospitals receive for those cases that still qualify. 33 Disproportionate Share Payments If a Medicare participating hospital serves a disproportionate share of low income patients, as determined annually based on certain statistical information defined by CMS, it receives a percentage add on to the MS DRG payment for each case. This percentage varies, depending on several factors that include the percentage of low income patients served. During 2007, 46 of our hospitals in continuing operations qualified for disproportionate share payments. Direct Graduate and Indirect Medical Education The Medicare program provides additional reimbursement to approved teaching hospitals for additional expenses incurred by such institutions. This additional reimbursement, which is subject to certain limits, including intern and resident full time equivalent (FTE) limits established in 1996, is made in the form of Direct Graduate Medical Education (GME) and Indirect Medical Education (IME) payments. During 2007, 16 of our hospitals in continuing operations were affiliated with academic institutions and were eligible to receive such payments. Medicare rules permit hospitals to enter into Medicare GME Affiliation Agreements for the purpose of applying the FTE limits on an aggregate basis, and some of our hospitals have entered into such agreements. We have been contacted by CMS in connection with GME FTE limits and related reimbursement at Doctors Medical Center in Modesto, California as a result of our 1997 acquisition of a county owned hospital in Modesto. We have annually collected approximately $2.5 million of GME reimbursement related to this matter. We replied to CMS that, based on our analysis of the transaction and the applicable CMS rules, we believe that the GME FTE limits and related reimbursement reported on the hospitals cost report were substantially correct. In January 2008, CMS preliminarily advised us that they disagree with our analysis. We have not received formal notification of CMS determination in this regard and are continuing discussions with CMS. However, if we receive an adverse determination from CMS on this matter, it could result in a material charge to our future results of operations, and it could have a material impact on our cash flows in a future quarter. Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System Under the outpatient prospective payment system, hospital outpatient services, except for certain services that are reimbursed on a separate fee schedule, are classified into groups called ambulatory payment classifications (APCs). Services in each APC are similar clinically and in terms of the resources they require, and a payment rate is established for each APC. Depending on the services provided, hospitals may be paid for more than one APC for an encounter. CMS periodically updates the APCs and annually adjusts rates paid for each APC. Inpatient Psychiatric Facility Prospective Payment System Effective January 1, 2005, CMS implemented a new system of reimbursement for hospital inpatient psychiatric services to replace a cost based payment system. The inpatient psychiatric facility prospective payment system (IPF PPS) applies to psychiatric hospitals and psychiatric units located within acute care hospitals that have been designated as exempt from the hospital inpatient prospective payment system. The IPF PPS includes several provisions to ease the transition to the new payment system. For example, CMS is phasing in the IPF PPS for existing hospitals and units over a three year period to avoid disrupting the delivery of inpatient psychiatric services. Full payment under the IPF PPS will be entirely phased in by the beginning of the fourth cost reporting year that begins after January 1, 2005. All of our hospitals will have been transitioned to the IRF PPS by June 1, 2008. The IPF PPS, which is based on prospectively determined per diem rates, includes a stop loss provision to protect providers against significant losses during the transition period, and an outlier policy that authorizes additional payments for extraordinarily costly cases. Inpatient Rehabilitation Prospective Payment System Rehabilitation hospitals and rehabilitation units in acute care hospitals meeting certain criteria established by CMS are eligible to be paid as an inpatient rehabilitation facility (IRF) under the IRF prospective payment system (IRF PPS). Payments under the IRF PPS are made on a per discharge basis. A patient classification system is used to assign patients in IRFs into case mix groups. The IRF PPS uses federal prospective payment rates across distinct case mix groups. Prior to July 1, 2004, a rehabilitation hospital or unit was eligible for classification as an IRF if it could show that, during its most recent 12 month cost reporting period, it served an inpatient population of whom at least 75 percent required intensive rehabilitation services for the treatment of one or more of ten specific conditions. This became known as the 75 percent rule. 34 On May 7, 2004, CMS released a final rule entitled Medicare Program; Changes to the Criteria for Being Classified as an Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility that revised the medical condition criteria rehabilitation hospitals and units must meet. This rule also replaced the 75 percent rule compliance threshold with a three year transition compliance threshold of 50%, 60% and 65% for years one, two and three, respectively, then a return to 75% in year four, commencing with cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2004. The three year transition period was later delayed by one year, then was permanently set at 60% in 2007. See Regulatory and Legislative Changes below. As of December 31, 2007, our inpatient rehabilitation hospital and all of our rehabilitation units were in compliance with the required 60% compliance threshold. Cost Reports The final determination of certain Medicare payments to our hospitals, such as disproportionate share, GME, IME and bad debt expense, are retrospectively determined based on our hospitals cost reports. The final determination of these payments often takes many years to resolve because of audits by the program representatives, providers rights of appeal, and the application of numerous technical reimbursement provisions. For filed cost reports, we adjust the accrual for estimated cost report settlements based on those cost reports and subsequent activity, and record a valuation allowance against those cost reports based on historical settlement trends. The accrual for estimated cost report settlements for periods for which a cost report is yet to be filed is recorded based on estimates of what we expect to report on the filed cost reports and a corresponding valuation allowance is recorded as previously described. Cost reports must be filed generally within five months after the end of the annual cost report reporting period. After the cost report is filed, the accrual and corresponding valuation allowance may need to be adjusted. Medicaid Medicaid programs are funded by both the federal government and state governments. These programs and the reimbursement methodologies are administered by the states and vary from state to state and from year to year. Estimated payments under various state Medicaid programs, excluding state funded managed care Medicaid programs, constituted approximately 8.4%, 8.9% and 8.2% of net patient revenues at our continuing general hospitals for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These payments are typically based on fixed rates determined by the individual states. We also receive disproportionate share payments under various state Medicaid programs. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our revenue attributable to disproportionate share payments and other state funded subsidy payments was approximately $170 million, $160 million and $112 million, respectively. The increase in revenue from disproportionate share payments and other state funded subsidy payments is primarily attributable to additional funding provided by certain states, which was made available in part by additional annual state provider taxes on certain of our hospitals and changes in classification of state programs. In May 2007, CMS issued a final rule, Medicaid Program; Cost Limit for Providers Operated by Units of Government and Provisions to Ensure the Integrity of the Federal State Financial Partnership, that places limits and restrictions on Medicaid reimbursement to safety net hospitals. Because of the congressional moratorium that was included in the federal fiscal year (FFY) 2007 Supplemental Appropriations Act, this final rule cannot take effect before May 25, 2008. The provisions of the rule could materially reduce the amount of Medicaid payments we receive in the future. Also in May 2007, CMS issued a proposed rule clarifying that the agency would no longer provide federal Medicaid matching funds for graduate medical education purposes. Congress responded to the CMS proposed rule to end federal support for GME payments by including in the FFY 2007 Supplemental Appropriations Act language that places a one year moratorium on any such restriction. The moratorium will last until May 23, 2008. We cannot predict what action, if any, Congress or CMS will take on this issue. Further, many states in which we operate are facing budgetary challenges that pose a threat to Medicaid funding levels to hospitals and other providers. We expect these challenges to continue. In particular, announced funding changes will adversely impact our Georgia, Florida and North Carolina hospitals effective January 1, 2008 (an estimated $57 million reduction on an annual basis for both traditional Medicaid and managed Medicaid). On February 20, 2008, the Governor of California approved budget cuts of $2.2 billion that include across the board reductions to Medi Cal, the states Medicaid program. The reductions include payment reductions and deferrals, as well as reductions in coverage. Barring legislative action to further modify the budget, the reductions go into effect on July 1, 2008. Based on our understanding of the budget reductions, we do not believe they will have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows. Other proposed funding changes could impact our hospitals in other states; however, at this time, we cannot predict the extent of the impact of other states budget restrictions on our hospitals. 35 Regulatory and Legislative Changes Recent regulatory and legislative updates to the terms of Medicare and Medicaid payment systems are provided below. Payment and Policy Changes to the Medicare Inpatient Prospective Payment System Under Medicare law, CMS is required annually to update certain rules governing the inpatient prospective payment system. The updates generally become effective October 1, the beginning of the federal fiscal year. On August 1, 2007, CMS issued the Changes to the Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment Systems and FFY 2008 Rates (Final Rule). On September 28, 2007, CMS issued a correction notice (Correction Notice) that corrects certain technical errors in the Final Rule. The Final Rule and Correction Notice include the following payment and policy changes: A market basket increase of 3.3% for MS DRG operating payments for hospitals reporting specified quality measure data (hospitals that do not report specified quality measure data will receive an increase of 1.3%); A two year phase in of 745 MS DRGs to replace the former 538 diagnosis related groups (DRGs) (for FFY 2008, the relative weights will be a blend of 50% of the DRG weight and 50% of the MS DRG weight; for FFY 2009, the relative weight will be based on 100% of the MS DRG weight); Across the board reductions of 1.2%, 1.8% and 1.8% in FFYs 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively, to maintain budget neutrality (according to CMS, these reductions (Coding and Documentation Offsets) are necessary to offset the effect of changes in coding or the classification of discharges that do not reflect real changes in case mix); An increase in the number of quality measures hospitals will need to report in FFY 2008 in order to qualify for the full market basket update in FFY 2009; A 0.9% increase in the capital federal standard rate; The elimination of the large urban add on adjustment to capital payments; The elimination of the indirect medical education adjustment to capital payments over a three year period, with no reduction in FFY 2008, a 50% reduction in FFY 2009, and a 100% reduction in FFYs 2010 and thereafter; The continuation of the three year transition to a methodology that assigns relative weights to MS DRGs based on cost instead of charges (for FFY 2008, the weights will be based on a blend of two thirds cost and one third charges); The implementation of a provision of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 to prevent hospitals from receiving higher payments (i.e., outlier payments) for the additional costs of treating a patient that acquires a condition (including an infection) during a hospital stay (for FFY 2008, CMS identified eight conditions); and A decrease in the cost outlier threshold from $24,485 to $22,185. According to CMS, projected aggregate spending from the reforms will not change. However, payments will increase for hospitals serving more severely ill patients and decrease for hospitals serving patients who are less severely ill. CMS projects that the combined impact of the payment and policy changes will yield an average 4.3% increase in payments for hospitals in large urban areas (populations over 1 million). This 4.3% increase includes CMS estimate of a 1.2% increase in anticipated payments resulting from coding and documentation improvements and the 1.2% Coding and Documentation Offset for FFY 2008 described above. On September 29, 2007, the President signed into law the Transitional Medical Assistance, Abstinence Education, and Qualifying Individuals Programs Extension Act of 2007, which includes a measure that reduces the Coding and Documentation Offsets for FFYs 2008 and 2009 by 50% to 0.6% and 0.9%, respectively, and requires the Secretary of HHS to conduct a look back over those years, estimate what the offsets should have been, and adjust future rates to recapture the estimated excess payments in FFY 2010. Using the impact percentages in the Final Rule for hospitals in large urban areas, which did not change in the Correction Notice, and considering the impact of the subsequent legislative reduction in the Coding and Documentation Offsets, each as applied to our Medicare IPPS payments for the 12 months ended September 30, 2007, the annual impact on our hospitals may result in an estimated increase in our Medicare revenues of approximately $69 million. Because of the uncertainty of the factors that may influence our future IPPS payments, including admission volumes, length of stay, case mix and the look back measure described above, we cannot provide any assurances regarding this estimate. 36 Payment and Policy Changes to the Medicare Inpatient Psychiatric Facility Prospective Payment System On April 30, 2007, CMS issued a Notice of the Medicare Inpatient Psychiatric Facility (IPF) Prospective Payment System Update for the rate year beginning July 1, 2007 (IPF PPS Notice). The IPF PPS Notice includes the following payment and policy changes: An update to the IPF payment equal to the market basket of 3.2%; and An increase in the fixed dollar loss threshold amount for outlier payments from $6,200 to $6,488. At December 31, 2007, 14 of our general hospitals in continuing operations operated inpatient psychiatric units. CMS projects that the combined impact of the proposed payment and policy changes will yield an average 3.1% increase in payments for all IPFs (including psychiatric units in acute care hospitals), and an average 1.1% increase in payments for psychiatric units of acute care hospitals located in urban areas. Using the urban unit impact percentage as applied to our Medicare IPF payments for the 12 months ended June 30, 2007, the annual impact of all changes on our psychiatric units may result in an estimated increase in our Medicare revenues of approximately $1 million. Because of the uncertainty of the factors that may influence our future IPF payments, including admission volumes, length of stay and case mix, we cannot provide any assurances regarding this estimate. Payment and Policy Changes to the Medicare Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System On July 31, 2007, CMS issued the Final Rule for the Medicare Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System for FFY 2008 (IRF PPS Rule). The IRF PPS Rule includes the following payment and policy changes: An update to the IRF payment rate equal to the market basket of 3.2%; A continuation of the phase in to a 75% compliance threshold, which when fully phased in requires that at least 75% of an IRFs total inpatient population have one of the 13 designated medical conditions for which intensive inpatient rehabilitation services are medically necessary; and An increase in the outlier threshold for high cost outlier cases from $5,534 to $7,362. In December 2007, the Medicare, Medicaid and State Childrens Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Extension Act of 2007 permanently set at 60% the threshold for rehabilitation hospitals and units to qualify as IRFs. The act also requires the continued the use of comorbidities in the determination of compliance, which use was set to expire on July 1, 2008. In order to fund these changes, the IRF PPS market basket update to the payment rate for FFY 2008, which effective October 1, 2007 is 3.2%, will be reduced to zero effective April 1, 2008 and will remain frozen at zero through FFY 2009. Because our hospitals are currently meeting the 60% threshold, only the market basket rate freeze will impact our revenues in FFY 2008. The rate reduction effective April 1, 2008 will likely negate any expected annual increase from the Final Rule. Payment and Policy Changes to the Medicare Outpatient Prospective Payment System On November 1, 2007, CMS issued the Final Changes to the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System and Calendar Year 2008 Payment Rates (OPPS Final Rule). The OPPS Final Rule includes the following payment and policy changes: A 3.3% inflation update in Medicare payment rates for hospital outpatient services paid under the outpatient prospective payment system (OPPS); A requirement for hospitals to begin reporting seven hospital outpatient quality measures in 2008 in order to receive their full payment update in 2009 (in 2009, hospitals that fail to report data for those measures would receive a 2% reduction in their payment update); and An increase in the size of the OPPS payment bundles and the creation of composite APCs that would provide one bundled payment for several major services. 37 CMS projects that the combined impact of the payment and policy changes in the OPPS Final Rule will yield an average 3.8% increase in payments for all hospitals, and an average 3.9% increase in payments for hospitals in large urban areas (populations over one million). According to CMS estimates, the projected annual impact of the final payment and policy changes for our hospitals is approximately $15 million, an increase of 4.7%. Because of the uncertainty of the factors that may influence our future OPPS payments, including volumes and case mix, we cannot provide any assurances regarding this estimate. Long Term Care Hospitals CMS issued a final rule for long term care hospitals on May 1, 2007 that provides for a 0.71% increase in the payment rate, increases the fixed outlier threshold from $14,887 to $20,738, and revises the payment methodologies for short stay outliers. The rule also extends the existing 25% cap on admissions for long term care units within hospitals to all long term care hospitals such that more than 25% of a hospitals admissions from a single source will be paid at the lower IPPS rate. However, in December 2007, the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act (1) froze the final rules payment rate for FFY 2008 at the FFY 2007 level effective April 1, 2008, (2) rescinded the rules payment methodology changes for short stay outliers and (3) placed a three year moratorium on the application of the 25% cap on long term acute care hospitals. We operate one long term care hospital, but we cannot predict the impact the final rule might have on our Medicare net revenues from that hospital because of the restrictions imposed on the rule by the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act. CMS Medicare Value Based Purchasing Program Report Congress, through Section 5001(b) of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, authorized the Secretary of HHS to develop a plan to implement value based purchasing (VBP) commencing in FFY 2009 for Medicare hospital services paid under the IPPS. By statute, the plan must include consideration of: (1) the development and selection of measures of quality and efficiency in inpatient settings; (2) reporting, collection and validation of quality data; (3) the structure, size and source of value based payment adjustments; and (4) disclosure of information on hospital performance. On November 21, 2007, CMS issued a report to Congress with its plan to implement a VBP program. In the report, CMS proposes to transform Medicare from a passive payer of claims to an active purchaser of care. The options in the report build on the foundation of the current program of reporting hospital quality data for the annual payment update, which ties a portion of the IPPS annual payment update to a hospital meeting certain requirements, including reporting on a defined set of inpatient quality measures. Under CMS proposal, its VBP program would phase out those requirements and would make a portion of a hospitals payments contingent on actual performance on specified measures, rather than simply on the hospitals reporting data for these measures. Under VBP, payments to high performing hospitals would be larger than those to lower performing hospitals because the IPPS would be used to provide financial incentives to drive improvements in clinical quality, patient centeredness and efficiency. Public reporting of performance on Medicares Hospital Compare website, a key component of the current reporting program, would remain an essential component of VBP. We cannot predict what action Congress or CMS may take with respect to the development or implementation of a VBP program, nor can we predict at this time what impact, if any, a VBP program might have on our results of operations or cash flows. Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 The State Childrens Health Insurance Program provides health insurance to poor children. SCHIP is jointly financed, under the provisions of the Social Security Act, by federal and state governments and administered by the states. Within broad federal guidelines, each state determines the design of its program, eligibility groups, benefit packages, payment levels for coverage, and administrative and operating procedures. SCHIP provided a capped amount of funds to states on a matching basis through September 30, 2007, when it expired. The Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007, which was signed into law on December 29, 2007, extends funding through March 31, 2009. Medicare Recovery Audit Contractor (RAC) Initiative Section 306 of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 directs the Secretary of HHS to demonstrate the use of RACs under CMS Medicare Integrity Program in identifying underpayments and overpayments 38 under the Medicare program, and recouping those overpayments. RACs are third party organizations under contract with CMS, and the law provides that compensation paid to each RAC be based on a percentage of overpayment recoveries identified by the RAC. In 2005, CMS selected three states (California, Florida and New York) to pilot its RAC initiative. Our hospitals in California and Florida were initially excluded from the program because our fiscal intermediary is not located in the demonstration states. In 2007, CMS added three states (Arizona, Massachusetts and South Carolina) to the demonstration, and included hospitals served by our fiscal intermediary in the demonstration. The RAC demonstration is slated to end in March 2008; however, Section 302 of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 makes the RAC program permanent and instructs CMS to use RACs to identify Medicare underpayments and overpayments nationwide by 2010. In November 2007, CMS released the revised RAC Statement of Work (SOW). The SOW includes several improvements, including placing certain restrictions on the claims subject to review by the RACs, and it delays implementation of the RAC program in some states. Several of our hospitals have received notices of overpayments resulting from RAC reviews. The overpayment determinations are subject to reconsideration and appeal through various forums, and we will pursue the reversal of the determinations where appropriate; however, we cannot predict the outcome of the appeals. In addition to overpayments identified by the RACs that are not reversed, we will incur additional costs to respond to requests for records and pursue the reversal of payment denials. We cannot predict the impact of future RAC reviews on our results of operations or cash flows. MedPAC Recommendations The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) is an independent Congressional agency established by the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 to advise Congress on issues affecting the Medicare program. The Commissions statutory mandate is quite broad; in addition to advising Congress on payments to private health plans participating in Medicare and providers in Medicares traditional fee for service program, MedPAC is also tasked with analyzing access to care, quality of care and other issues affecting Medicare. On January 10, 2008, MedPAC commenced a two day public meeting to address ongoing Medicare issues and policy questions. Their recommendations affecting hospital payments include the following: Congress should increase payment rates for the acute inpatient and outpatient prospective payment systems in 2009 by the projected rate of increase in the hospital market basket index; Congress should reduce the IME adjustment in 2009 by 1% to 4.5% per 10% increment in the resident to bed ratio, and the funds obtained by reducing the IME adjustment should be used to fund a quality incentive payment program; and The update to the payment rates for IRF services should be eliminated for FFY 2009. We cannot predict what actions, if any, Congress or CMS may take with respect to MedPACs recommendations or what impact those actions may have on our operations. Any actions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows. FFY 2009 Budget Proposal On February 4, 2008, the White House released its FFY 2009 budget proposal, which includes nearly $182 billion in Medicare cuts over five years. The proposed cuts affecting hospitals include: A three year market basket freeze for FFYs 2009 2011, with an annual reduction to the market basket of 0.65% thereafter in FFYs 2008 through 2012 for hospital inpatient and outpatient services, as well as IRF services; A 5% reduction to capital payments in FFY 2009; A 30% reduction in disproportionate share payments over two years; A reduction of the Medicare IME add on percentage from 5.5% to 2.2% over three years; Implementation of the Administrations VBP program over five years; and A phase out of Medicare bad debt payments over four years. Most of the budget proposals require Congressional action, and we cannot predict what action, if any, Congress will take on these proposals. 39 Regulations Addressing Serious Medical Events In an effort to encourage hospitals to improve quality of care, the Medicare program and certain state Medicaid programs have taken steps to reduce or withhold payments to hospitals for treatment given to patients whose conditions were caused by serious medical error. Under rules that go into effect on October 1, 2008, Medicare will no longer pay hospitals for the higher costs of care resulting from eight complications, including falls, objects left inside patients during surgery, pressure ulcers and three types of hospital acquired infections. Certain states have established policies or proposed legislation to prohibit hospitals from charging or receiving payment from their Medicaid programs for highly preventable adverse medical events (sometimes called serious reportable events or never events), which were developed by the National Quality Forum, a non profit organization that seeks to improve the quality of American healthcare. These errors include wrong site surgery, serious medication mistakes and discharging a baby to the wrong mother, among others. In some states, including California, hospitals are required to report certain adverse events to a state agency charged with publicizing the events, as well as the results of any ensuing investigation conducted by the agency. We believe that our Commitment to Quality initiative, which utilizes the most current evidence based techniques to improve the way we provide care, reduces our exposure to serious reportable events, but we are unable to predict the future impact of this development on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. PRIVATE INSURANCE Managed Care We currently have thousands of managed care contracts with various health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and preferred provider organizations (PPOs). HMOs generally maintain a full service health care delivery network comprised of physician, hospital, pharmacy and ancillary service providers that HMO members must access through an assigned primary care physician. The members care is then managed by his or her primary care physician and other network providers in accordance with the HMOs quality assurance and utilization review guidelines so that appropriate health care can be efficiently delivered in the most cost effective manner. HMOs typically provide no benefit or reimbursement to their members who use non contracted health care providers for non emergency care. PPOs generally offer limited benefits to members who use non contracted health care providers. PPO members who use contracted health care providers receive a preferred benefit, typically in the form of lower co payments, co insurance or deductibles. As employers and employees have demanded more choice, managed care plans have developed hybrid products that combine elements of both HMO and PPO plans. The amount of our managed care net patient revenue during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $4.6 billion, $4.3 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. Approximately 58% of our managed care net patient revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 was derived from our top ten managed care payers. National payers generate approximately 43% of our total net managed care revenues. The remainder comes from regional or local payers. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 51% and 53%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable related to continuing operations were due from managed care payers. We expect managed care governmental admissions to continue to increase as a percentage of total managed care admissions over the near term. However, the managed Medicare and Medicaid insurance plans typically generate lower yields than commercial managed care plans, which have been experiencing an improved pricing trend. Although we have had ten consecutive quarters of improved year over year managed care pricing, we expect some moderation in the pricing percentage increases in the future. Indemnity An indemnity based agreement generally requires the insurer to reimburse an insured patient for health care expenses after those expenses have been incurred by the patient, subject to an increasing number of policy conditions and exclusions. Unlike an HMO member, a patient with indemnity insurance is free to control his or her utilization of health care and selection of health care providers. 40 SELF PAY PATIENTS Self pay patients are patients who do not qualify for government programs payments, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and who do not have some form of private insurance and, therefore, are responsible for their own medical bills. A significant portion of our self pay patients is being admitted through our hospitals emergency departments and often requires high acuity treatment. High acuity treatment is more costly to provide and, therefore, results in higher billings, which are the least collectible of all accounts. We believe our level of self pay patients has been higher in the last several years than previous periods due to a combination of broad economic factors, including reductions in state Medicaid budgets, increasing numbers of individuals and employers who choose not to purchase insurance, and an increased burden of co payments and deductibles to be made by patients instead of insurers. Self pay accounts pose significant collectability problems. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 8% and 7%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable related to continuing operations were due from self pay patients. Further, a significant portion of our provision for doubtful accounts relates to self pay patients. We have performed systematic analyses to focus our attention on drivers of bad debt for each hospital. Specifically, pilots for new initiatives to ensure patients are receiving the optimal level of care at the appropriate time in the best setting are being introduced in a few of our hospitals to minimize inappropriate use of our emergency departments for non emergent and non urgent services. While emergency department use is the primary contributor to our provision for doubtful accounts in the aggregate, this is not the case at all hospitals. As a result, we are increasing our focus on targeted initiatives that concentrate on non emergency department patients. These initiatives are intended to promote process efficiencies in working self pay accounts we deem highly collectible. This is just one example of our continuous improvement efforts dedicated to modifying and refining our processes, enhancing our technology and improving staff training throughout the revenue cycle in an effort to increase collections and reduce accounts receivable. Over the longer term, several other initiatives we have previously announced should also help address this challenge. For example, our Compact is designed to offer managed care style discounts to most uninsured patients, which enables us to offer lower rates to those patients who historically have been charged standard gross charges. A significant portion of those charges had previously been written down in our provision for doubtful accounts. Under the Compact, the discount offered to uninsured patients is recognized as a contractual allowance, which reduces net operating revenues at the time the self pay accounts are recorded. The uninsured patient accounts, net of contractual allowances recorded, are further reduced to their net realizable value through provision for doubtful accounts based on historical collection trends for self pay accounts and other factors that affect the estimation process. We also provide charity care to patients who are financially unable to pay for the health care services they receive. Most patients who qualify for charity care are charged a per diem amount for services received, subject to a cap. Except for the per diem amounts, our policy is not to pursue collection of amounts determined to qualify as charity care; therefore, we do not report these amounts in net operating revenues or in provision for doubtful accounts. Charity care gross charges for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $637 million, $613 million and $561 million, respectively. Both the cost of providing these benefits and the forgone revenue under our Compact would be substantially less than the gross charge amounts. 41 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007 COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006 The following two tables summarize our net operating revenues, operating expenses and operating income (loss) from continuing operations, both in dollar amounts and as percentages of net operating revenues, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Increase (Decrease) Net operating revenues: General hospitals $ 8,680 $ 8,300 $ 380 Other operations 172 153 19 Net operating revenues 8,852 8,453 399 Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 3,964 3,775 189 Supplies 1,573 1,532 41 Provision for doubtful accounts 567 502 65 Other operating expenses, net 2,047 1,949 98 Depreciation 330 309 21 Amortization 32 28 4 Impairment of long lived assets and goodwill, and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries 60 338 (278 ) Hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs (3 ) (14 ) 11 Litigation and investigation costs 13 766 (753 ) Operating income (loss) $ 269 $ (732 ) $ 1,001 Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Increase (Decrease) Net operating revenues: General hospitals 98.1 % 98.2 % (0.1 )% Other operations 1.9 % 1.8 % 0.1 % Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % % Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 44.8 % 44.7 % 0.1 % Supplies 17.8 % 18.1 % (0.3 )% Provision for doubtful accounts 6.4 % 5.9 % 0.5 % Other operating expenses, net 23.1 % 23.1 % % Depreciation 3.7 % 3.7 % % Amortization 0.4 % 0.3 % 0.1 % Impairment of long lived assets and goodwill, and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries 0.7 % 4.0 % (3.3 )% Hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs % (0.2 )% 0.2 % Litigation and investigation costs 0.1 % 9.1 % (9.0 )% Operating income (loss) 3.0 % (8.7 )% 11.7 % Net operating revenues of our continuing general hospitals include inpatient and outpatient revenues, as well as nonpatient revenues (primarily rental income, management fee revenue and income from services such as cafeterias, gift shops and parking) and other miscellaneous revenue. Net operating revenues of other operations primarily consist of revenues from (1) physician practices, (2) rehabilitation hospitals and a long term care facility, and (3) equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates that are not directly associated with our general hospitals. None of our individual hospitals represented more than 5% of our net operating revenues or more than 15% of our total assets, excluding goodwill and intercompany receivables, at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Net operating revenues from our other operations were $172 million and $153 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Since 2006, we have seen an increase in revenues from physician practices. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, included in our net operating revenues from other operations, were $20 million and $6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 42 The table below shows certain selected historical operating statistics for our continuing general hospitals: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Patient Day, Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net inpatient revenues(1) $ 5,967 $ 5,789 3.1 % Net outpatient revenues(1) $ 2,590 $ 2,393 8.2 % Number of general hospitals (at end of period) 54 53 1 (2) Licensed beds (at end of period) 14,516 14,283 1.6 % Average licensed beds 14,379 14,366 0.1 % Utilization of licensed beds(3) 52.5 % 53.6 % (1.1 )%(2) Patient days 2,757,848 2,812,740 (2.0 )% Adjusted patient days(4) 3,937,329 3,958,689 (0.5 )% Net inpatient revenue per patient day $ 2,164 $ 2,058 5.2 % Admissions(5) 556,025 561,198 (0.9 )% Adjusted patient admissions(4) 799,072 795,850 0.4 % Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 10,732 $ 10,315 4.0 % Average length of stay (days) 5.0 5.0 (2) Surgeries 388,996 399,351 (2.6 )% Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 641 $ 583 9.9 % Outpatient visits 4,042,350 4,102,587 (1.5 )% (1) Net inpatient revenues and net outpatient revenues are components of net operating revenues. Net inpatient revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 include self pay revenues of $280 million and $240 million, respectively. Net outpatient revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 include self pay revenues of $355 million and $282 million, respectively. (2) The change is the difference between 2007 and 2006 amounts shown. (3) Utilization of licensed beds represents patient days divided by average licensed beds divided by number of days in the period. (4) Adjusted patient admissions/days represent actual patient admissions/days adjusted to include outpatient services by multiplying actual patient admissions/days by the sum of gross inpatient revenues and outpatient revenues and dividing the result by gross inpatient revenues. (5) Self pay admissions represent 4.4% and 4.0% of total admissions for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Charity care admissions represent 1.9% and 2.0% of total admissions for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 43 The table below shows certain selected historical operating statistics for our continuing general hospitals on a same hospital basis. The impact of our acquisition of Coastal Carolina Medical Center at the end of June 2007 is excluded from same hospital statistics for the year ended December 31, 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Patient Day, Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net inpatient revenues(1) $ 5,961 $ 5,789 3.0 % Net outpatient revenues(1) $ 2,581 $ 2,393 7.9 % Number of general hospitals (at end of period) 53 53 (2) Licensed beds (at end of period) 14,475 14,283 1.3 % Average licensed beds 14,355 14,366 (0.1 )% Utilization of licensed beds(3) 52.5 % 53.6 % (1.1 )%(2) Patient days 2,754,533 2,812,740 (2.1 )% Adjusted patient days(4) 3,927,936 3,958,689 (0.8 )% Net inpatient revenue per patient day $ 2,164 $ 2,058 5.2 % Admissions(5) 555,318 561,198 (1.0 )% Adjusted patient admissions(4) 797,069 795,850 0.2 % Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 10,734 $ 10,315 4.1 % Average length of stay (days) 5.0 5.0 (2) Surgeries 388,487 399,351 (2.7 )% Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 642 $ 583 10.1 % Outpatient visits 4,021,945 4,102,587 (2.0 )% (1) Net inpatient revenues and net outpatient revenues are components of net operating revenues. Net inpatient revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 include self pay revenues of $280 million and $240 million, respectively. Net outpatient revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 include self pay revenues of $352 million and $282 million, respectively. (2) The change is the difference between 2007 and 2006 amounts shown. (3) Utilization of licensed beds represents patient days divided by average licensed beds divided by number of days in the period. (4) Adjusted patient admissions/days represent actual patient admissions/days adjusted to include outpatient services by multiplying actual patient admissions/days by the sum of gross inpatient revenues and outpatient revenues and dividing the result by gross inpatient revenues. (5) Self pay admissions represent 4.4% and 4.0% of total admissions for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Charity care admissions represent 1.9% and 2.0% of total admissions for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. REVENUES During the year ended December 31, 2007, net operating revenues from continuing operations increased 4.7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. Same hospital outpatient visits, surgeries, patient days and admissions were lower during the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the year ended December 31, 2006 by 2.0%, 2.7%, 2.1% and 1.0%, respectively. We believe the following factors continue to contribute to the overall decline in our inpatient and outpatient volume levels: (1) loss of patients to competing health care providers; (2) challenges in physician recruitment, retention and attrition, specifically with respect to recruiting physicians at our Florida hospitals to replace doctors who have retired or relocated; (3) strategic reduction of services related to our Targeted Growth Initiative discussed in Executive Overview Significant Challenges Company Specific Volume Challenge above; (4) a previously disclosed lawsuit filed by the University of Southern California, which we believe has negatively impacted volumes at our USC University Hospital; (5) population trends in Florida; and (6) unfavorable publicity about us, which impacts our relationships with physicians and patients. Our same hospital net inpatient revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by 3.0% compared to the prior year. There were various positive and negative factors impacting our net inpatient revenues. The positive factors include: Improved managed care pricing as a result of renegotiated contracts; Favorable net adjustments for prior year cost reports and related valuation allowances, primarily attributable to Medicare and Medicaid, of $47 million in 2007 compared to $37 million in 2006; and An increase in disproportionate share payments under various states Medicaid programs to $170 million in 2007 from $160 million in 2006. 44 The negative factors include: Lower overall volumes, particularly at our Florida hospitals and USC University Hospital in California; and A shift in volume from traditional Medicaid to managed Medicaid plans. Same hospital net outpatient revenues during the year ended December 31, 2007 increased 7.9% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006, although overall same hospital outpatient visits decreased 2.0% in 2007. The primary reason for the same hospital net outpatient revenue increase is improved managed care pricing. SALARIES, WAGES AND BENEFITS Salaries, wages and benefits expense as a percentage of net operating revenues was flat for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. Salaries, wages and benefits per adjusted patient day increased approximately 5.6% in 2007 compared to 2006. The increase is primarily due to merit increases since the prior year and a greater number of employed physicians. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 22% of the employees at our hospitals and related health care facilities were represented by labor unions. Labor relations at our facilities generally have been satisfactory. We, and the hospital industry in general, are continuing to see an increase in the amount of union activity across the country. As union activity increases at our hospitals, our salaries, wages and benefits expense may increase more rapidly than our net operating revenues. In November 2007, we entered into new collective bargaining agreements with the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) to replace expired collective bargaining agreements at 14 hospitals in California and two hospitals in Florida. We also entered into a collective bargaining agreement with the SEIU at Coral Gables Hospital in Florida after certain employees voted in favor of union representation at that facility in March 2007. The SEIU agreements set stable and competitive wage increases within our budgeted expectations for union represented employees. In August 2007, we entered into successor, four year collective bargaining agreements with the California Nurses Association (CNA) that cover nurses at nine hospitals in California. The CNA agreements provide for wage increases within our budgeted expectations. We have also entered into separate peace accords with both the SEIU and the CNA that provide each union with limited access to attempt to organize our employees. In March 2007, we reached an agreement with the United Nurses Associations of California (UNAC) on a new labor contract for nurses represented at four hospitals in California. The UNAC agreement includes improvements in employee wages, work rules and benefits. We do not anticipate that any of the union and labor agreements we reached in 2007 will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Included in salaries, wages and benefits expense in the year ended December 31, 2007 is $40 million of stock based compensation expense compared to $50 million in 2006. The decrease is due to the vesting of higher grant date fair value awards from prior years and the issuance of new awards at lower grant date fair values primarily due to our lower stock price. SUPPLIES Supplies expense as a percentage of net operating revenues decreased slightly for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006; however, supplies expense per adjusted patient day increased approximately 3.2% in 2007 compared to 2006. This increase in supplies expense reflected higher costs for implants and pacemakers due to inflation and technology improvements, partially offset by lower cardiovascular and pharmaceutical supply costs, which resulted from a decrease in cardiovascular procedures and our efforts to use more cost effective pharmaceuticals. We strive to control supplies expense through product standardization, bulk purchases, contract compliance, improved utilization and operational improvements that should minimize waste. The items of current cost reduction focus continue to be cardiac stents and pacemakers, orthopedic implants and high cost pharmaceuticals. We also utilize the group purchasing strategies and supplies management services of Broadlane, Inc., a company in which we currently hold a 48% interest. Broadlane offers group purchasing procurement strategy, outsourcing and e commerce services to the health care industry. 45 PROVISION FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The provision for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net operating revenues increased slightly for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to higher self pay revenues. The table below shows the net accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts by payer: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Accounts Receivable Before Allowance For Doubtful Accounts Allowance For Doubtful Accounts Net Accounts Receivable Before Allowance For Doubtful Accounts Allowance For Doubtful Accounts Net (In Millions) Medicare $ 163 $ $ 163 $ 168 $ $ 168 Medicaid 133 133 140 140 Cost report settlements (17 ) (17 ) (43 ) (43 ) Commercial managed care 568 98 470 623 133 490 Governmental managed care 188 188 163 163 Self pay uninsured 200 158 42 169 149 20 Self pay balance after 137 70 67 133 64 69 Estimated future recoveries from accounts assigned to collection agencies 36 36 38 38 Other 302 74 228 268 85 183 Total continuing operations 1,710 400 1,310 1,659 431 1,228 Total discontinued operations 116 41 75 252 67 185 $ 1,826 $ 441 $ 1,385 $ 1,911 $ 498 $ 1,413 A significant portion of our provision for doubtful accounts relates to self pay patients. Collection of accounts receivable has been a key area of focus, particularly over the past several years, as we have experienced adverse changes in our business mix. Our current estimated collection rate on self pay accounts is approximately 36%, including collections from point of service through collections by our in house collection agency or external collection vendors. This self pay collection rate includes payments made by patients, including co payments and deductibles paid by patients with insurance, prior to an account being classified and assigned to our in house self pay collection group. The comparable self pay collection percentage as of December 31, 2006 was approximately 32%. Our provision for doubtful accounts in the fourth quarter of 2007 includes a $19 million favorable adjustment in the estimate of necessary bad debt reserve levels at year end primarily related to uninsured patients billings in 2007 compared to a favorable adjustment of $8 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. The change in anticipated collections as of December 31, 2007 was based on a look back period of 18 months of collections. We have performed systematic analyses to focus our attention on drivers of bad debt for each hospital. Specifically, pilots for new initiatives to ensure patients are receiving the optimal level of care at the appropriate time in the best setting are being introduced in a few of our hospitals to minimize inappropriate use of our emergency departments for non emergent and non urgent services. While emergency department use is the primary contributor to our provision for doubtful accounts in the aggregate, this is not the case at all hospitals. As a result, we are increasing our focus on targeted initiatives that concentrate on non emergency department patients. These initiatives are intended to promote process efficiencies in working self pay accounts we deem highly collectible. This is just one example of our continuous improvement efforts dedicated to modifying and refining our processes, enhancing our technology and improving staff training throughout the revenue cycle in an effort to increase collections and reduce accounts receivable. Payment pressure from managed care payers has also affected our provision for doubtful accounts. We continue to experience ongoing managed care payment delays and disputes; however, we are working with these payers to obtain adequate and timely reimbursement for our services. Our current estimated collection rate on managed care accounts is approximately 98%, which includes collections from point of service through collections by our in house collection agency or external collection vendors. The comparable managed care collection percentage as of December 31, 2006 was approximately 97%. We continue to focus on revenue cycle initiatives to improve cash flow. One specific initiative that was started during the three months ended September 30, 2006 and is expected to be completed in 2008 is the Center for Patient Access Services, which is a centralized dedicated operation that performs financial clearance, including completing insurance eligibility checks, documenting verification of benefits, providing required notifications to managed care payers, obtaining pre authorizations when 46 necessary and contacting the patient to offer pre service financial counseling. Although we continue to improve our methodology for evaluating the collectability of our accounts receivable, we may incur future charges if there are unfavorable changes in the trends affecting the net realizable value of our accounts receivable. We manage our provision for doubtful accounts using hospital specific goals and benchmarks such as (1) total cash collections, (2) point of service cash collections, (3) accounts receivable days outstanding (AR Days), and (4) accounts receivable aging. The following tables present the approximate aging by payer of our continuing operations net accounts receivable of $1.327 billion and $1.271 billion, excluding cost report settlements payable and valuation allowances of $17 million and $43 million, at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively: December 31, 2007 Medicare Medicaid Managed Care Indemnity, Self Pay and Other Total 0 60 days 96 % 63 % 75 % 34 % 68 % 61 120 days 3 % 25 % 15 % 25 % 17 % 121 180 days 1 % 12 % 5 % 12 % 7 % Over 180 days % % 5 % 29 % 8 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % December 31, 2006 Medicare Medicaid Managed Care Indemnity, Self Pay and Other Total 0 60 days 98 % 60 % 74 % 31 % 68 % 61 120 days 2 % 26 % 16 % 26 % 17 % 121 180 days % 14 % 6 % 12 % 7 % Over 180 days % % 4 % 31 % 8 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Our AR Days from continuing operations were 54 days at December 31, 2007 and 53 days at December 31, 2006. AR Days at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are within our target of less than 60 days. AR Days are calculated as our accounts receivable from continuing operations on the last date in the relevant quarter divided by our revenue from continuing operations for the quarter ended on that date divided by the number of days in the quarter. As of December 31, 2007, we had a cumulative total of patient account assignments dating back at least three years or older of approximately $4.7 billion related to our continuing operations being pursued by our in house and outside collection agencies or vendors. These accounts have already been written off and are not included in our receivables or in the allowance for doubtful accounts; however, an estimate of future recoveries from all the accounts at collection agencies is determined based on our historical experience and recorded in accounts receivable. Patient advocates from our Medical Eligibility Program (MEP) screen patients in the hospital to determine whether those patients meet eligibility requirements for financial assistance programs. They also expedite the process of applying for these government programs. Receivables from patients who are potentially eligible for Medicaid are classified as Medicaid pending, under our MEP, with appropriate contractual allowances recorded. Based on recent trends, approximately 83% of all accounts in our MEP are ultimately approved for benefits under a government program such as Medicaid. 47 The following table shows the approximate amount of net accounts receivable in our MEP, still awaiting determination of eligibility under a government program at December 31, 2007 and 2006, by aging category: December 31, 2007 2006 0 60 days $ 61 $ 55 61 120 days 16 19 121 180 days 6 9 Over 180 days(1) Total $ 83 $ 83 (1) Includes accounts receivable of $10 million at December 31, 2007 and $12 million at December 31, 2006 that are fully reserved. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Other operating expenses as a percentage of net operating revenues were 23.1% for both the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Other operating expense per adjusted patient day increased approximately 5.7% in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher physician fees, contracted services and information technology services costs. Also included in other operating expenses is malpractice expense of $173 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $186 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease is due primarily to lower patient volume levels, tort reform in several states, and reduced claims experience and ultimate indemnity paid on claims. Also included in other operating expenses in the year ended December 31, 2007 is $2 million in net gains compared to $3 million in net losses in the year ended December 31, 2006. The 2007 amount includes an $8 million net gain on the sale of a medical office building in Florida, offset by various immaterial losses on sales of equipment. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS AND GOODWILL AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES During the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded net impairment and restructuring charges of $60 million, net of insurance recoveries of $5 million, compared to $338 million, net of insurance recoveries of $3 million, for the year ended December 31, 2006. The primary reason for the decrease is lower impairment charges in 2007. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail of these charges and related liabilities. In the second quarter of 2006, we announced several changes to our operating structure. Because of the restructuring of our regions, our goodwill reporting units (as defined in Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets) changed in the second quarter of 2006, requiring us to perform a goodwill impairment evaluation. Based on this evaluation, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of approximately $35 million during the three months ended June 30, 2006 based on the estimated fair value of goodwill associated with the reconfigured reporting units. In addition, as part of our annual impairment test, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $152 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2006 for our former Central Northeast region due to a lower estimated fair value as a result of adverse industry and company specific challenges that continued to affect our operating results and our anticipated future financial trends, including reduced patient volumes, high levels of bad debt expense related to uninsured and underinsured patients, and continued pressure on labor and supply costs. We estimated the fair value of the goodwill based on appraisals, established market values of comparable assets, or internal estimates of future net cash flows. Our impairment tests presume stable or, in some cases, improving results in our hospitals. If these expectations are not met, or if in the future negative trends occur that impact our future outlook, further impairments of long lived assets and goodwill may occur, and we will incur additional restructuring charges. Future restructuring of our regions that changes our goodwill reporting units could also result in further impairments of our goodwill. LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATION COSTS Litigation and investigation costs in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 were $13 million compared to $766 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The amount for 2007 includes a $7 million increase in the estimated liabilities for wage and hour actions and other unrelated employment matters further described in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The 2006 expenses primarily consisted of legal settlements with the federal government and costs to defend ourselves in various lawsuits. 48 INCOME TAX BENEFIT Income taxes in the year ended December 31, 2007 included: (1) an income tax benefit of $67 million to reduce our estimated liabilities for uncertain tax positions, including interest; (2) income tax expense of $48 million to increase the valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets; and (3) a state income tax benefit of $10 million, net of federal benefit, to increase deferred tax assets related to state tax credits as a result of enactment of recent legislation. Income taxes in the year ended December 31, 2006 included: (1) a $247 million income tax benefit ($171 million recorded as a current income tax receivable and $76 million as a non current deferred tax asset) to record the tax effects of our global civil settlement with the federal government; (2) the impact of the non deductibility of goodwill impairment charges ($52 million unfavorable tax impact on the effective tax rate reconciliation as a result of this permanent difference); (3) income tax expense of $124 million to increase the valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets, including the impact on the valuation allowance of an IRS Revenue Agents Report (the RAR) discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements; and (4) an income tax benefit of $41 million to reflect changes in our tax contingency reserves, including interest and including the impact of the RAR and settlement discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006 COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 The following two tables summarize our net operating revenues, operating expenses and operating loss from continuing operations, both in dollar amounts and as percentages of net operating revenues, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) Net operating revenues: General hospitals $ 8,300 $ 8,156 $ 144 Other operations 153 170 (17 ) Net operating revenues 8,453 8,326 127 Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 3,775 3,807 (32 ) Supplies 1,532 1,516 16 Provision for doubtful accounts 502 567 (65 ) Other operating expenses, net 1,949 1,848 101 Depreciation 309 301 8 Amortization 28 26 2 Impairment of long lived assets and goodwill, and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries 338 38 300 Hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs (14 ) 12 (26 ) Litigation and investigation costs 766 212 554 Loss from early extinguishment of debt 15 (15 ) Operating loss $ (732 ) $ (16 ) $ (716 ) 49 Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) Net operating revenues: General hospitals 98.2 % 98.0 % 0.2 % Other operations 1.8 % 2.0 % (0.2 )% Net operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % % Operating expenses: Salaries, wages and benefits 44.7 % 45.8 % (1.1 )% Supplies 18.1 % 18.2 % (0.1 )% Provision for doubtful accounts 5.9 % 6.8 % (0.9 )% Other operating expenses, net 23.1 % 22.2 % 0.9 % Depreciation 3.7 % 3.6 % 0.1 % Amortization 0.3 % 0.3 % % Impairment of long lived assets and goodwill, and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries 4.0 % 0.5 % 3.5 % Hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs (0.2 )% 0.1 % (0.3 )% Litigation and investigation costs 9.1 % 2.5 % 6.6 % Loss from early extinguishment of debt % 0.2 % (0.2 )% Operating loss (8.7 )% (0.2 )% (8.5 )% None of our individual hospitals represented more than 5% of our net operating revenues or more than 15% of our total assets, excluding goodwill and intercompany receivables, at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Net operating revenues from our other operations were $153 million and $170 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, included in these amounts, were $6 million and $10 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The table below shows certain selected historical operating statistics for our continuing general hospitals: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Patient Day, Per Admission and Per Visit Amounts) Net inpatient revenues(1) $ 5,789 $ 5,649 2.5 % Net outpatient revenues(1) $ 2,393 $ 2,393 % Number of general hospitals (at end of period) 53 53 (2) Licensed beds (at end of period) 14,283 14,463 (1.2 )% Average licensed beds 14,366 14,470 (0.7 )% Utilization of licensed beds(3) 53.6 % 55.7 % (2.0 )%(2) Patient days 2,812,740 2,940,639 (4.3 )% Adjusted patient days(4) 3,958,689 4,100,028 (3.4 )% Net inpatient revenue per patient day $ 2,058 $ 1,921 7.1 % Admissions(5) 561,198 573,651 (2.2 )% Adjusted patient admissions(4) 795,850 806,724 (1.3 )% Net inpatient revenue per admission $ 10,315 $ 9,847 4.8 % Average length of stay (days) 5.0 5.1 (0.1 )(2) Surgeries 399,351 412,192 (3.1 )% Net outpatient revenue per visit $ 583 $ 552 5.6 % Outpatient visits 4,102,587 4,333,922 (5.3 )% (1) Net inpatient revenues and net outpatient revenues are components of net operating revenues. Net inpatient revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 include self pay revenues of $240 million and $268 million, respectively. Net outpatient revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 include self pay revenues of $282 million and $340 million, respectively. (2) The change is the difference between 2006 and 2005 amounts shown. (3) Utilization of licensed beds represents patient days divided by average licensed beds divided by number of days in the period. (4) Adjusted patient admissions/days represent actual patient admissions/days adjusted to include outpatient services by multiplying actual patient admissions/days by the sum of gross inpatient revenues and outpatient revenues and dividing the result by gross inpatient revenues. (5) Self pay admissions represent 4.0% and 3.7% of total admissions for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Charity care admissions represent 2.0% and 1.7% of total admissions for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 50 REVENUES During the year ended December 31, 2006, net operating revenues from continuing operations increased 1.5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 due to improved managed care pricing, partially offset by lower volumes. Net operating revenues were also impacted by the discounts recorded on self pay accounts under our Compact. Total Compact discounts, which reduced net operating revenues, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, were $876 million and $750 million, respectively. Outpatient visits, surgeries, patient days and admissions were lower during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 by 5.3%, 3.1%, 4.3% and 2.2%, respectively. We believe the following factors contributed to the overall decline in our inpatient and outpatient volume levels: (1) loss of patients to competing health care providers; (2) challenges in physician recruitment, retention and attrition; (3) strategic reduction of services related to our Targeted Growth Initiative; and (4) unfavorable publicity about us as a result of legacy lawsuits and government investigations, which impacted our relationships with physicians and patients. Our net inpatient revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased 2.5% compared to the prior year. There were various positive and negative factors that impacted our net inpatient revenues. The positive factors include: Improved managed care pricing as a result of contracts renegotiated in 2006 and late 2005, partially offset by a reduction in stop loss payments from $364 million in 2005 to $308 million in 2006. The improved managed care pricing was also partially offset by an overall shift in our managed care patient mix towards plans with lower levels of reimbursement, including: (1) national payers whose contract terms typically generate lower yields; and (2) managed care Medicare and Medicaid insurance plans, which typically generate lower yields than commercial managed care plans; and Medicaid disproportionate share revenue of $160 million in 2006 compared to $112 million in 2005. The negative factors include: Lower patient volumes, including Medicare, Medicaid and commercial managed care volumes; Favorable net adjustments for prior year cost reports and related valuation allowances, primarily related to Medicare and Medicaid, in 2006 of $37 million, including a favorable adjustment of $17 million as a result of a change in estimate of the valuation allowances necessary for prior year cost report periods not yet audited and settled by our fiscal intermediary, versus a favorable net adjustment in 2005 of $45 million; and Compact discounts of $443 million in 2006 versus $383 million in 2005, which reduced net inpatient revenue. Net outpatient revenues during the year ended December 31, 2006 were flat compared to 2005. Net outpatient revenues were negatively impacted by the implementation of the Compact. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately $434 million in discounts were recorded on outpatient self pay accounts under the Compact compared to discounts of $367 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. As previously mentioned, outpatient visits also decreased 5.3% for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. The primary reasons for this decrease are lower rehabilitation visits, closures or joint venture arrangements with respect to various outpatient centers, and the increasing competition we are experiencing from physician owned entities providing outpatient services. The reduction in outpatient ancillary visits, coupled with an increase in emergency room visits and improved managed care pricing, contributed to an overall increase in our net outpatient revenue per visit. SALARIES, WAGES AND BENEFITS Salaries, wages and benefits expense as a percentage of net operating revenues decreased for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Salaries, wages and benefits per adjusted patient day increased approximately 2.9% in 2006 compared to 2005. The increase is primarily due to less effective flexing of staff during volume declines, partially offset by lower overall benefit costs in 2006 primarily due to a reduction in the 401(k) plan maximum matching percentage from 5% to 3%. 51 Included in salaries, wages and benefits expense in the year ended December 31, 2006 is $50 million of stock compensation expense compared to $48 million in the year ended December 31, 2005. SUPPLIES Supplies expense as a percentage of net operating revenues was essentially flat for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005, however, supplies expense per adjusted patient day increased 3.8% from 2005. The increase in supplies expense was primarily attributable to higher pharmaceutical, orthopedic and implants supply costs. In the case of implants, the higher costs were associated primarily with new products used to provide a higher quality of care to our patients, whereas the higher orthopedic costs primarily reflected inflation of prices. Higher pharmaceutical costs reflected a combination of new products and inflation. PROVISION FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The provision for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net operating revenues decreased for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to the implementation of the Compact, partially offset by higher levels of uninsured patients. Prior to implementation of the discounting provisions under the Compact, the vast majority of these accounts were ultimately recognized to be uncollectible and, as a result, were then recorded in our provision for doubtful accounts. By offering managed care style discounts, we are charging the uninsured more affordable rates, whereby they may be better able to meet their financial obligations to pay for services we provide them. The discounts recorded as contractual allowances during the year ended December 31, 2006 were approximately $876 million compared to $750 million in 2005. The increase is substantially due to the phasing in of the Compact and the fact that Compact discounts were in effect at all 53 of our general hospitals in the year ended 2006, whereas in 2005, our hospitals in Texas implemented the discounting components of the Compact on September 1, 2005 and most of our hospitals in California implemented them effective February 1, 2005. However, we do not expect the Compact to have a material effect on the net economic impact of treating self pay patients. Our collection rate on self pay accounts as of December 31, 2006 was approximately 32%, including collections from point of service through collections by our in house collection agency or external collection vendors. The comparable self pay collection percentage as of December 31, 2005 was approximately 24%. Our collection rate on managed care accounts as of December 31, 2006 was approximately 97%. The comparable managed care collection percentage as of December 31, 2005 was approximately 96%. In the three months ended June 30, 2005, bad debt expense included a positive adjustment of approximately $33 million to reduce bad debt expense for disputed managed care receivables that were ultimately settled. As a result of these settlements, contractual allowances in 2005 included a corresponding increase that reduced net operating revenues by approximately $29 million. The following tables present the approximate aging by payer of our continuing operations net accounts receivable of $1.271 billion and $1.377 billion, excluding cost report settlements payable and valuation allowances of $43 million and $90 million, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively: December 31, 2006 Medicare Medicaid Managed Care Indemnity, Self Pay and Other Total 0 60 days 98 % 60 % 74 % 31 % 68 % 61 120 days 2 % 26 % 16 % 26 % 17 % 121 180 days % 14 % 6 % 12 % 7 % Over 180 days % % 4 % 31 % 8 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 52 December 31, 2005 Medicare Medicaid Managed Care Indemnity, Self Pay and Other Total 0 60 days 95 % 63 % 72 % 47 % 69 % 61 120 days 4 % 24 % 18 % 15 % 16 % 121 180 days 1 % 13 % 8 % 7 % 8 % Over 180 days % % 2 % 31 % 7 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Our AR Days from continuing operations decreased to 53 days at December 31, 2006 compared to 58 days at December 31, 2005. AR Days at December 31, 2006 and 2005 are within our target of less than 60 days. The decrease in AR Days reflects improved collections, particularly in our former Texas and Central Northeast regions. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Other operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were 23.1% and 22.2% of net operating revenue, respectively. The increase is due primarily to increases in fixed costs that do not fluctuate with changes in our patient volumes, such as utilities, property taxes, information technology costs and other contracted services, including physicians fees, that continued to result in a higher operating expense percentage even though revenues increased from 2005 to 2006. Other operating expenses include malpractice expense of $186 million and $195 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decrease in 2006 is due to lower patient volumes and improved loss development. Also included in other operating expenses in the year ended December 31, 2006 is $3 million in net losses compared to $4 million of net gains in the year ended December 31, 2005 on sales of equipment and other assets. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS AND GOODWILL AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES During the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded net impairment and restructuring charges of $338 million, net of insurance recoveries of $3 million. This compares to impairment and restructuring charges of $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail of these charges, reversal of reserves and related liabilities. LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATION COSTS Litigation and investigation costs in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 were $766 million compared to $212 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The 2006 expenses were comprised primarily of our June 2006 global civil settlement with the federal government ($711 million), accruals of minimum liabilities on several other cases, and legal and other costs. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The 2005 expenses consisted primarily of $140 million for the net settlement of a securities lawsuit, $7 million in final settlement of matters related to Redding Medical Center, $7 million to settle several issues with the Florida Attorney General, and legal and other costs to defend ourselves in other matters, in particular the various federal government investigations. LOSS FROM EARLY EXTINGUISHMENT OF DEBT In connection with the early redemption of senior notes in February 2005, we recorded a $15 million loss on extinguishment of debt, representing premiums paid and the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs. NET GAINS ON SALES OF FACILITIES AND LONG TERM INVESTMENTS The $5 million of net gains in the year ended December 31, 2006 related to the sale of an investment and the reduction of reserves associated with hospitals sold in prior years. 53 The $4 million of net gains in the year ended December 31, 2005 related primarily to the reduction of reserve estimates associated with hospitals sold in prior years. INCOME TAX (EXPENSE) BENEFIT Income taxes in the year ended December 31, 2006 included: (1) a $247 million income tax benefit ($171 million recorded as a current income tax receivable and $76 million as a non current deferred tax asset) to record the tax effects of our global civil settlement with the federal government; (2) the impact of the non deductibility of goodwill impairment charges ($52 million unfavorable tax impact on the effective tax rate reconciliation as a result of this permanent difference); (3) income tax expense of $124 million to increase the valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets, including the impact on the valuation allowance of the RAR discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements; and (4) an income tax benefit of $41 million to reflect changes in our tax contingency reserves, including interest and including the impact of the RAR and settlement discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income taxes in the year ended December 31, 2005 included: (1) income tax expense of $79 million to increase the valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets; and (2) an income tax benefit of $28 million to reflect changes in our tax contingency reserves, including interest. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES CASH REQUIREMENTS Our obligations to make future cash payments under contracts, such as debt and lease agreements, and under contingent commitments, such as standby letters of credit and minimum revenue guarantees, are summarized in the table below, all as of December 31, 2007: Years Ending December 31, Later Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Years (In Millions) Long term debt(1) $ 7,683 $ 381 $ 381 $ 381 $ 1,381 $ 898 $ 4,261 Global civil settlement payable(1) 267 97 97 73 Capital lease obligations(1) 2 2 Long term non cancelable operating leases 404 139 85 53 38 28 61 Standby letters of credit 232 230 2 Guarantees(2) 96 65 16 8 3 2 2 Asset retirement obligations 148 148 Academic affiliation agreements(3) 305 32 25 19 19 19 191 Tax liabilities 188 16 61 111 Supplemental executive retirement plan obligations 546 18 18 19 19 19 453 Information technology contract services 1,267 45 46 48 50 52 1,026 Purchase orders 197 197 Total $ 11,335 $ 1,220 $ 670 $ 662 $ 1,510 $ 1,018 $ 6,255 (1) Includes interest through maturity date/lease termination. (2) Includes minimum revenue guarantees, primarily related to physicians under relocation agreements and physician groups that provide services at our hospitals, and operating lease guarantees. (3) These agreements contain various rights and termination provisions. The standby letters of credit are required principally by our insurers and various states to collateralize our workers compensation programs pursuant to statutory requirements and as security to collateralize the deductible and self insured retentions under some of our professional and general liability insurance programs. The amount of collateral required is principally dependent upon the level of claims activity and our creditworthiness. The insurers require the collateral in case we are unable to meet our obligations to claimants within the deductible or self insured retention layers. The standby letters of credit are issued under our revolving credit facility. 54 Our capital expenditures primarily relate to the expansion and renovation of existing facilities, including amounts to comply with applicable laws and regulations, equipment and information systems additions and replacements, introduction of new medical technologies, design and construction of new buildings, and various other capital improvements. Capital expenditures were $743 million, $693 million and $578 million in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We anticipate that our capital expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2008 will total approximately $600 million to $650 million, including $135 million that was accrued in December 2007, but not paid until 2008. The anticipated capital expenditures include approximately $16 million in 2008 to meet California seismic requirements for our remaining California facilities after all planned divestitures. We currently estimate spending a total of approximately $405 million to comply with the requirements under Californias seismic regulations. This amount has not been adjusted for inflation as there is currently a shortage of supplies, and there is expected to be a limited number of architects, engineers and contractors available to design and perform this work, both of which are causing a high inflation rate at this time. Our budgeted capital expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2008 also include approximately $16 million to improve disability access at certain of our facilities, as a result of a consent decree in a class action lawsuit. We expect to spend a total of approximately $143 million on such improvements over the next four years. Interest payments, net of capitalized interest, were $395 million, $376 million and $357 million in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 interest payments included $15 million related to our global civil settlement with the federal government. We anticipate that our gross interest payments, including capitalized interest, for the year ending December 31, 2008 will be approximately $388 million. Income tax refunds, net of tax payments, were approximately $162 million in the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to approximately $215 million in income tax payments, net of refunds received, in the year ended December 31, 2006 and a net income tax refund of $530 million in the year ended December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2007, our carryforwards available to offset future taxable income consisted of (1) federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $2.0 billion expiring in 2024 to 2027, (2) approximately $6 million in alternative minimum tax credits with no expiration, and (3) general business credit carryforwards of approximately $12 million expiring in 2023 to 2027. SOURCES AND USES OF CASH Our liquidity for the year ended December 31, 2007 was primarily derived from cash on hand, marketable securities, proceeds from sales of facilities and other assets related to discontinued operations, income tax refunds, proceeds from the cash surrender value or basis reduction of certain life insurance policies, and cash flow generated from operations. During 2006, our liquidity was primarily derived from sales of facilities, cash on hand, the release of $263 million of restricted cash in connection with our prior letter of credit agreement, and insurance recoveries. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our liquidity was primarily derived from proceeds from the sale of new senior notes, cash flows from operating activities, including a net income tax refund of $530 million, sales of facilities and unrestricted cash on hand. Our primary source of operating cash is the collection of accounts receivable. As we experience changes in our business mix and as admissions of uninsured and underinsured patients grow, our operating cash flow is negatively impacted due to lower levels of cash collections and higher levels of bad debt. Net cash provided by operating activities was $326 million in 2007 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $462 million in 2006. The increase of $788 million in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to payments for legal settlements that were $592 million lower in 2007 and net income tax refunds of $162 million received in 2007 compared to net income tax payments of $215 million in 2006, partially offset by $161 million of insurance recoveries received in 2006. The remaining decrease of $20 million in net cash provided by operating activities is due to the timing of various other payables and receivables. During the year ended December 31, 2006, net cash used in operating activities was $462 million. The decrease from 2005 in cash generated by operations, after considering the net income tax refund of $530 million in 2005 compared to net income tax payments of $215 million in 2006, is due primarily to higher payments for litigation settlements, partially offset by $161 million in insurance recoveries in 2006. 55 During the year ended December 31, 2005, net cash provided by operating activities was $763 million. The primary contributor was the net income tax refund of $530 million. In addition, lower payments for restructuring and litigation settlements and reduced operating cash requirements related to discontinued operations contributed to the increase from 2004. Proceeds from the sales of facilities and other assets related to discontinued operations during 2007, 2006 and 2005 aggregated $91 million, $226 million and $87 million, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2007, we also received proceeds of $31 million from our investment in Metrocrest Hospital Authority bonds compared to $4 million in the year ended December 31, 2006. Essentially, the source of the 2007 proceeds was our final payment of $31 million under our lease agreement with the Authority to operate two hospitals in the Dallas, Texas area, $22 million of which is classified as a financing outflow in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. As a result of our review of our balance sheet for efficiencies during 2007, we received $82 million in cash surrender value proceeds or basis reduction of certain life insurance policies. In addition, in 2007, we received $6 million in insurance recoveries for hurricane related property damage. In the year ended December 31, 2006, we received $115 million in insurance proceeds for property damage caused by hurricanes in addition to the $161 million of insurance recoveries received during 2006 for business interruption and other hurricane related costs ($276 million in total). Further initiatives to increase the efficiency of our balance sheet during 2008 could generate incremental cash. These possible initiatives could include the sale of some or all of our medical office buildings, the recapitalization of Broadlane, Inc., in which we hold a 48% interest, and the sale of excess land, buildings or other underutilized or inefficient assets. However, such initiatives require significant marketing and negotiation efforts; therefore, the realization of such incremental cash flow cannot be assured. Purchases of property and equipment were $676 million and $681 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, in the year ended December 31, 2007, we spent approximately $36 million to purchase a hospital in South Carolina and $67 million for construction of hospitals in El Paso, Texas and Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina. In the year ended December 31, 2006, we bought out the joint venture interest of a discontinued operation and purchased certain real estate from the joint venture partner for $28 million and spent $12 million on construction costs for the El Paso hospital. In 2006, we replaced our $250 million letter of credit facility with an $800 million senior secured revolving credit facility, which allowed $263 million of cash pledged under the letter of credit facility to be released. In 2005, net cash proceeds from the sale of new senior notes were $773 million. We used the proceeds to redeem other long term debt, to retire existing bank loans under our credit agreements at the time and for general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2007, one of our captive insurance subsidiaries held $2 million of auction rate securities, classified as investments, whose auction failed due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. As of December 31, 2007, we do not believe an other than temporary impairment of these securities has occurred due to their credit ratings at that date of Aa2 by Moodys and the expected longer term holding period in our captive insurance subsidiarys investments to be matched with maturing liabilities. The funds associated with failed auctions will not be accessible until a successful auction occurs. These securities are being analyzed each reporting period for other than temporary impairment factors. We do not anticipate any future decrease in value of these securities to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and have no other investments that we expect will be negatively affected by the credit crisis in the sub prime market. We have not made any repurchases of our common stock since June 30, 2003. We have issued shares to be held by our benefit plan administrator that are reported as treasury shares until released to our employees as a result of restricted stock unit grants, which entitle employees to receive shares of our common stock in the future. DEBT INSTRUMENTS, GUARANTEES AND RELATED COVENANTS In November 2006, we entered into a five year, $800 million senior secured revolving credit facility that replaced our $250 million letter of credit facility. The revolving credit facility is collateralized by patient accounts receivable at our acute care and specialty hospitals, and bears interest at our option based on LIBOR plus 175 basis points or Citigroups base rate, as defined in the credit agreement, plus 75 basis points. The revolving credit agreement includes a provision, which we believe is customary in receivables backed credit facilities, that gives our banks the right to require that proceeds of collections of substantially all of our consolidated accounts receivable be applied directly to repay outstanding loans and other amounts that are due and payable under the revolving credit facility at any time that unused borrowing availability under the revolving credit facility is less than $100 million or if an event of default has occurred and is continuing thereunder. In that event, we would seek to re borrow under the revolving credit facility to satisfy our operating cash requirements. Our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility is subject to conditions that we believe are customary in such facilities, including that no events of default then exist. 56 In January 2005, we sold $800 million of 9% senior notes due in 2015. In February 2005, with a portion of the net proceeds from that sale, we redeemed the remaining $400 million aggregate principal amount outstanding on our senior notes due in 2006 and 2007. As a result, we have no significant long term debt due until December 2011. The maturities of over 90% of our long term debt now fall between December 2011 and January 2015. An additional $450 million of long term debt is not due until 2031. The indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants and conditions that have, among other requirements, limitations on (1) liens on principal properties and (2) sale and lease back transactions with respect to principal properties. A principal property is defined in the indentures as a hospital that has an asset value on our books in excess of 5% of our consolidated net tangible assets, as defined. The above limitations do not apply, however, to (1) debt that is not secured by principal properties or (2) debt that is secured by principal properties if the aggregate of such secured debt does not exceed 15% of our consolidated net tangible assets, as further described in the indentures. The indentures also prohibit the consolidation, merger or sale of all or substantially all assets unless no event of default would result after giving effect to such transaction. All of our senior notes are general unsecured senior debt obligations that rank equally in right of payment with all of our other unsecured senior indebtedness, but are effectively subordinated to the obligations of our subsidiaries and any obligations under our revolving credit facility to the extent of the collateral. From time to time, we expect to engage in various capital markets, bank credit and other financing activities depending on our needs and financing alternatives available at that time. We believe our existing indentures provide significant flexibility for future collateralized borrowings. We are currently in compliance with all covenants and conditions under our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes. At December 31, 2007, there were no cash borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility, and we had approximately $232 million of letters of credit outstanding. Based on our eligible receivables, the borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility was $564 million at December 31, 2007. We also had approximately $572 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 2007 to fund our operations and capital expenditures. LIQUIDITY We believe that existing cash and cash equivalents on hand, marketable securities, availability under our revolving credit facility, future cash provided by operating activities and anticipated sales proceeds from our hospitals held for sale should be adequate to meet our current cash needs. These sources of liquidity should also be adequate to finance planned capital expenditures, payments on the current portion of our long term debt and other presently known operating needs. Long term liquidity for debt service will be dependent on improved cash provided by operating activities, results of balance sheet initiatives previously discussed and, given favorable market conditions, future borrowings or refinancings. However, our cash requirements could be materially affected by the deterioration in our results of operations, as well as the various uncertainties discussed in this and other sections, which could require us to pursue any number of financing options, including, but not limited to, additional borrowings, debt refinancings, asset sales or other financing alternatives. The level, if any, of these financing sources cannot be assured. We are aggressively identifying and implementing further actions to control costs and enhance our operating performance, including cash flow. Among the areas being addressed are volume growth, managed care payer contracting, procurement efficiencies, cost standardization, bad debt expense reduction initiatives, underperforming hospitals, and certain hospital and overhead costs not related to patient care. Although these initiatives may result in improved performance, that performance may remain somewhat below our hospital management peers because of geographic and other differences in hospital portfolios. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Excluding the hospitals whose operating results are included in discontinued operations, our consolidated operating results for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 include $1.4 billion of net operating revenue and $0.1 billion of income from operations generated from eight hospitals operated by us under operating lease arrangements. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the respective assets and the future lease obligations under these arrangements are not recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. The current terms of these operating leases expire between 2009 and 2027, not including lease extensions that we have options to exercise. If these leases expire, we would no longer generate revenue or expenses from these hospitals. 57 We have no other off balance sheet arrangements that may have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources, except for $328 million of standby letters of credit outstanding and guarantees as of December 31, 2007 (shown in the cash requirements table above). RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we must use estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates we use. In general, we base the estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, given the particular circumstances in which we operate. Actual results may vary from those estimates. We consider our critical accounting estimates to be those that (1) involve significant judgments and uncertainties, (2) require estimates that are more difficult for management to determine, and (3) may produce materially different outcomes under different conditions or when using different assumptions. Our critical accounting estimates cover the following areas: Recognition of net operating revenues, including contractual allowances; Provisions for doubtful accounts; Accruals for general and professional liability risks; Accruals for supplemental executive retirement plans; Accruals for litigation losses; Impairment of long lived assets and goodwill; Asset retirement obligations; Accounting for income taxes; and Accounting for stock based compensation. REVENUE RECOGNITION We recognize net operating revenues in the period in which services are performed. Net operating revenues consist primarily of net patient service revenues that are recorded based on established billing rates (i.e., gross charges), less estimated discounts for contractual and other allowances, principally for patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid, and managed care and other health plans, as well as uninsured patients under the Compact. Revenues under the traditional fee for service Medicare and Medicaid programs are based primarily on prospective payment systems. Discounts for retrospectively cost based revenues, which were more prevalent in earlier periods, and certain other payments, such as disproportionate share, GME, IME and bad debt expense, which are based on our hospitals cost reports, are estimated using historical trends and current factors. Cost report settlements under these programs are subject to audit by Medicare and Medicaid auditors and administrative and judicial review, and it can take several years until final settlement of such matters is determined and completely resolved. Because the laws, regulations, instructions and rule interpretations governing Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement are complex and change frequently, the estimates recorded by us could change by material amounts. 58 We have a system and estimation process for recording Medicare net patient revenue and estimated cost report settlements. This results in us recording accruals to reflect the expected final settlements on our cost reports. For filed cost reports, we record the accrual based on those cost reports and subsequent activity, and record a valuation allowance against those cost reports based on historical settlement trends. The accrual for periods for which a cost report is yet to be filed is recorded based on estimates of what we expect to report on the filed cost reports, and a corresponding valuation allowance is recorded as previously described. Cost reports must generally be filed within five months after the end of the annual cost report reporting period. After the cost report is filed, the accrual and corresponding valuation allowance may need to be adjusted. Revenues under managed care plans are based primarily on payment terms involving predetermined rates per diagnosis, per diem rates, discounted fee for service rates and or other similar contractual arrangements. These revenues are also subject to review and possible audit by the payers. The payers are billed for patient services on an individual patient basis. An individual patients bill is subject to adjustment on a patient by patient basis in the ordinary course of business by the payers following their review and adjudication of each particular bill. We estimate the discounts for contractual allowances at the individual hospital level utilizing billing data on an individual patient basis. At the end of each month, on an individual hospital basis, we estimate our expected reimbursement for patients of managed care plans based on the applicable contract terms. These estimates are periodically reviewed for accuracy by taking into consideration known contract terms as well as payment history. Although we do not separately accumulate and disclose the aggregate amount of adjustments to the estimated reimbursements for every patient bill, we believe our estimation and review process enables us to identify instances on a timely basis where such estimates need to be revised. We do not believe there were any adjustments to estimates of individual patient bills that were material to our revenues. In addition, on a corporate wide basis, we do not record any general provision for adjustments to estimated contractual allowances for managed care plans. Revenues related to self pay patients may qualify for a discount under the Compact, whereby the gross charges based on established billing rates would be reduced by an estimated discount for contractual allowance. We believe that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from final determination of amounts earned under all the above arrangements. We know of no material claims, disputes or unsettled matters with any payers that would affect our revenues for which we have not adequately provided for in our Consolidated Financial Statements. PROVISIONS FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS Although outcomes vary, our policy is to attempt to collect amounts due from patients, including co payments and deductibles due from patients with insurance, at the time of service while complying with all federal and state laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (EMTALA). Generally, as required by EMTALA, patients may not be denied emergency treatment due to inability to pay. Therefore, services, including the legally required medical screening examination and stabilization of the patient, are performed prior to the verification of the patients insurance, if any. In non emergency circumstances or for elective procedures and services, it is our policy to verify insurance prior to a patient being treated. We provide for an allowance against accounts receivable that could become uncollectible by establishing an allowance to reduce the carrying value of such receivables to their estimated net realizable value. We estimate this allowance based on the aging of our accounts receivable by hospital, our historical collection experience by hospital and for each type of payer over an 18 month look back period, and other relevant factors. Our practice is to reduce the net carrying value of self pay accounts receivable, including accounts related to the co payments and deductibles due from patients with insurance, to their estimated net realizable value at the time of billing. Generally, uncollected balances are assigned to our in house collection agency between 120 to 180 days, once patient responsibility has been identified. When accounts are assigned for collections by the hospital, the accounts are completely written off the hospitals books through the provision for doubtful accounts, and an estimated future recovery amount is calculated and recorded as a receivable on the hospitals books at the same time. The estimated future recovery amount is adjusted based on the aging of the accounts and changes to actual recovery rates. The estimated future recovery amount for self pay accounts is gradually written down whereby it is fully reserved if the amount is not paid within two years after the account is assigned to our in house collection agency. Managed care accounts are collected through our hospital based business offices or regional business offices, whereby the account balances remain in the hospitals patient accounting system and on the hospitals books, and are adjusted based on an analysis of the net realizable value as they age. Managed care accounts collected through our hospital based business offices or regional business offices are gradually written down whereby they are fully reserved if the accounts are not paid within two years. 59 Changes in the collectability of aged managed care accounts receivable are ongoing and impact our provision for doubtful accounts. We continue to experience payment pressure from managed care companies concerning amounts of past billings. We aggressively pursue collection of these accounts receivable using all means at our disposal, including arbitration and litigation, but we may not be successful. ACCRUALS FOR GENERAL AND PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY RISKS We accrue for estimated professional and general liability claims, to the extent not covered by insurance, when they are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We maintain reserves, which are based on actuarial estimates for the portion of our professional liability risks, including incurred but not reported claims, to the extent we do not have insurance coverage. Our estimated liability is based on a number of factors, including the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimates of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, the timing of historical payments and risk free discount rates used to determine the present value of future cash flows. Our estimated reserve for professional and general liability claims will change significantly if future claims differ from historical trends. In addition, because of the complexity of the claims, the extended period of time to settle the claims and the wide range of potential outcomes, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. ACCRUALS FOR SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLANS Our supplemental executive retirement plan benefit obligations and related costs are calculated using actuarial concepts, within the framework of SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions. The discount rate is a critical assumption in determining the elements of expense and liability measurement. We evaluate this critical assumption annually. Other assumptions include employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover, and rate of compensation increase. The discount rate enables us to state expected future cash payments for benefits as a present value on the measurement date. The guideline for setting this rate is a high quality long term corporate bond rate. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension expense. We increased our discount rate to 6.25% in 2007 from 5.75% in 2006 to reflect market interest rate conditions at our December 31, 2007 measurement date. The assumed discount rate for pension plans reflects the market rates for high quality corporate bonds currently available. A one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would decrease total net periodic pension expense for 2008 by $0.4 million and would increase the projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2007 by $25 million. A one percentage point increase in the assumed discount rate would decrease net periodic pension expense for 2008 by $0.2 million and decrease the projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2007 by $21 million. ACCRUALS FOR LITIGATION LOSSES We record reserves for litigation losses in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (SFAS 5). Under SFAS 5, a loss contingency is recorded if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. We record probable loss contingencies based on the best estimate of the loss. If a range of loss can be reasonably estimated, but no single amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within the range, the minimum amount in the range is accrued. These estimates are often initially developed earlier than when the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are adjusted if additional information becomes known. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS We evaluate our long lived assets for possible impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset, or related group of assets, may not be recoverable from estimated future undiscounted cash flows. We calculate the amount of an impairment if the carrying value of the long lived assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. The fair value of the assets is estimated based on appraisals, established market values of comparable assets or internal estimates of future net cash flows expected to result from the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. The estimates of these future cash flows are based on assumptions and projections we believe to be reasonable and supportable. They require our 60 subjective judgments and take into account assumptions about revenue and expense growth rates. These assumptions may vary by type of facility and presume stable or improving results at our hospitals, depending on their circumstances. If the presumed level of performance does not occur as expected, impairment may result. We report long lived assets to be disposed of at the lower of their carrying amounts or fair values less costs to sell. In such circumstances, our estimates of fair value are based on appraisals, established market prices for comparable assets or internal estimates of future net cash flows. These fair value estimates can change by material amounts in subsequent periods. Many factors and assumptions can impact the estimates, including the future financial results of our hospitals, how the hospitals are operated in the future, changes in health care industry trends and regulations, and the nature of the ultimate disposition of the assets. In certain cases, these fair value estimates assume the highest and best use of the assets in the future to a market place participant is other than as a hospital. In these cases, the estimates are based on the fair value of the real property and equipment if utilized other than as a hospital. The impairment recognized does not include the costs of closing the hospital or other future operating costs, which could be substantial. Accordingly, the ultimate net cash realized from the hospital, should we choose to sell it, could be significantly less than its impaired value. IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the fair value of assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in purchase business combinations and determined to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but instead are subject to impairment tests performed at least annually. For goodwill, we perform the test at the reporting unit level, as defined by appropriate accounting standards, when events occur that require an evaluation to be performed or at least annually. If we determine the carrying value of goodwill is impaired, or if the carrying value of a business that is to be sold or otherwise disposed of exceeds its fair value, then we reduce the carrying value, including any allocated goodwill, to fair value. Estimates of fair value are based on appraisals, established market prices for comparative assets or internal estimates of future net cash flows and presume stable or improving results at our hospitals, depending on their circumstances. If the presumed level of performance does not occur as expected, impairment may result. ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS We recognize the fair value of a liability for legal obligations associated with asset retirements in the period in which it is incurred, in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS 143) and Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, if a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the obligation can be made. When the liability is initially recorded, we capitalize the cost of the asset retirement obligation by increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost associated with the retirement obligation is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. Upon settlement of the obligation, any difference between the cost to settle the asset retirement obligation and the liability recorded is recognized as a gain or loss in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The calculation of the asset retirement obligation is a critical accounting estimate because factors used in calculating the obligation can change, which could result in larger or smaller estimated obligations that could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The significant assumptions and estimates used in the calculation include the following: Estimated settlement date of the obligation The year when the asset is no longer deemed to have any future useful life, and the facility or asset is closed, or otherwise disposed of, is when final settlement of the obligation is estimated to occur, and is generally based on the remaining years of useful life of our facilities or the expiration of a lease. Changes in demand, competing facilities, economic conditions, technology advancements, state regulations and availability of physicians, nurses and staff can affect the estimated settlement date. Retirement obligation costs These costs are estimated based on our knowledge of the applicable laws and regulations, known facts and circumstances of specific obligations, and cost estimates obtained from our knowledge and past experience. 61 Asbestos presence The estimated amount of asbestos in our facilities was determined by our construction staff based on their knowledge of the architectural state of the facility, the age of the facility and whether any renovation had recently occurred. Due to facilities changing ownership several times and our experience during renovations of inconsistent use of building materials, it cannot be known with certainty the exact amount of asbestos present or the exact location of all asbestos that may need to be remediated. Inflation rate The inflation rate applied to current remediation costs is used to estimate the future value of the remediation costs at the time the retirement obligation is estimated to be settled. We have assumed an inflation rate of 5% based on the nature of the retirement obligations. Discount rate The estimated costs at the anticipated settlement date are discounted back to the year the asset was built or acquired to determine the amount of the obligation when it was incurred. The estimate of the initial obligation has been accreted to the current date in accordance with SFAS 143. The discount rate represents our credit adjusted, risk free rate of interest, which is estimated to be 9.5%. Using these estimates and assumptions, the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle, fixed asset cost, accumulated depreciation and the asset retirement obligation were calculated for each of our facilities that have known asset retirement obligations. Subsequent changes to these assumptions will affect future depreciation and accretion expense. ACCOUNTING FOR INCOME TAXES We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109) and FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, as amended by FASB Staff Position No. 48 1 (FIN 48). This approach requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Income tax receivables and liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on the amounts that more likely than not will be sustained upon ultimate settlement with taxing authorities. Developing our provision for income taxes and analysis of uncertain tax positions requires significant judgment and knowledge of federal and state income tax laws, regulations and strategies, including the determination of deferred tax assets and liabilities and, if necessary, any valuation allowances that may be required for deferred tax assets. We assess the realization of our deferred tax assets to determine whether an income tax valuation allowance is required. Based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, and the weight of that evidence to the extent such evidence can be objectively verified, we determine whether it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. The main factors that we consider include: Cumulative losses in recent years; Income/losses expected in future years; Unsettled circumstances that, if unfavorably resolved, would adversely affect future operations and profit levels; The availability, or lack thereof, of taxable income in prior carryback periods that would limit realization of tax benefits; The carryforward period associated with the deferred tax assets and liabilities; and Prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. We consider many factors when evaluating our uncertain tax positions, and such judgments are subject to periodic review. Tax benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recognized in the period in which one of the following conditions is satisfied: (1) the more likely than not recognition threshold is satisfied; (2) the position is ultimately settled through negotiation or litigation; or (3) the statute of limitations for the taxing authority to examine and challenge the position has expired. Tax benefits associated with an uncertain tax position are derecognized in the period in which the more likely than not recognition threshold is no longer satisfied. While we believe we have adequately provided for our income tax receivables or liabilities and our deferred tax assets or liabilities in accordance with SFAS 109 and FIN 48, adverse determinations by taxing authorities or changes in tax laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 62 ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK BASED COMPENSATION Effective January 1, 2006, we account for the cost of stock based compensation using the fair value method required by SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)), under which the cost of stock option grants and other incentive awards to employees, directors, advisors and consultants generally is measured by the fair value of the awards on their grant date and is recognized over the vesting periods of the awards, whether or not the awards had any intrinsic value during the period. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we accounted for the cost of stock based compensation using the fair value method recommended by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS 123). Under SFAS 123(R), we estimate the fair value of stock option grants as of the date of each grant, using a binomial lattice model. The key assumptions of the binomial lattice model include: Expected volatility; Expected dividend yield; Expected life; Expected forfeiture rate; Risk free interest rate range; Early exercise threshold; and Early exercise rate. The expected volatility used in the binomial lattice model incorporates historical and implied share price volatility and is based on an analysis of historical prices of our stock and open market exchanged options. The expected volatility reflects the historical volatility for a duration consistent with the contractual life of the options, and the volatility implied by the trading of options to purchase our stock on open market exchanges. The historical share price volatility excludes the movements in our stock price during the period October 1, 2002 through December 31, 2002 due to unique events occurring during that time, which caused the extreme volatility of our stock price. The expected life of options granted is derived from the output of the binomial lattice model and represents the period of time that the options are expected to be outstanding. This model incorporates an early exercise assumption in the event of a significant increase in stock price. The risk free interest rates are based on zero coupon United States Treasury yields in effect at the date of grant consistent with the expected exercise timeframes. Under SFAS 123, we estimated the fair value of stock option grants as of the date of each grant, using a Black Scholes option pricing model. This model incorporated our reasoned assumptions regarding (1) the expected volatility of our common stock price, (2) estimated risk free interest rates, and (3) the expected dividend yield, if any, all over the expected lives of the respective options. We did not adjust the model for non transferability, risk of forfeiture or the vesting restrictions of the option, all of which would reduce the option value if factored into our calculations. The most critical of the above assumptions in our calculations of fair value is the expected life of an option, because it, in turn, is a principal part of our calculations of expected volatility and interest rates. Accordingly, we reevaluate our estimate of expected life at each major grant date. Our reevaluation is based on recent exercise patterns. 63 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The table below presents information about certain of our market sensitive financial instruments as of December 31, 2007. The fair values were determined based on quoted market prices for the same or similar instruments. At December 31, 2007, we had no borrowings subject to or with variable interest rates. Maturity Date, Year Ending December 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total Fair Value (Dollars in Millions) Fixed rate long term debt $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1,001 $ 601 $ 3,256 $ 4,861 $ 4,343 Average interest rates 17.2 % 17.2 % 17.2 % 6.8 % 6.8 % 8.9 % 8.2 % We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage or prepayment features. At December 31, 2007, we had long term, market sensitive investments held by our captive insurance subsidiaries. Our market risk associated with our investments in debt securities classified as non current assets is substantially mitigated by the long term nature and type of the investments in the portfolio. At December 31, 2007, we had accumulated unrealized losses of approximately $1 million related to our captive insurance companies investment portfolios. We have no affiliation with partnerships, trusts or other entities (sometimes referred to as special purpose or variable interest entities) whose purpose is to facilitate off balance sheet financial transactions or similar arrangements. Thus, we have no exposure to the financing, liquidity, market or credit risks associated with such entities. 64 
 
