FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20021227131211.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.  Other Events.
 
On December 20, 2002, Northrop Grumman Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Northrop Grumman"), BCP Acquisition Company L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company ("BCP"), TRW Inc., an Ohio corporation ("TRW"), and TRW Automotive Inc., a Delaware corporation ("TAI"), executed Amendment No.1 (the "Amendment") to the Master Purchase Agreement, between Northrop Grumman and BCP, dated as of November 18, 2002 and filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Northrop Grumman on November 19, 2002 (the "Master Purchase Agreement"). The Amendment provides for TRW and TAI to become parties to the Master Purchase Agreement. A copy of the Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
(c)  
Exhibits
 
The following is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated as of December 23, 2002.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
This Amendment No. 1, dated December 20, 2002 (this ""), to the Master Purchase Agreement, dated November 18, 2002 (the ""), between Northrop Grumman Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), and BCP Acquisition Company L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (""), is hereby made among Northrop Grumman, BCP LLC, TRW Inc., an Ohio corporation (""), and TRW Automotive Inc., a Delaware corporation ("").
Amendment
Master Purchase Agreement
Northrop Grumman
BCP LLC
TRW
TAI
 
 
WHEREAS, Northrop Grumman and BCP LLC are the original parties to the Master Purchase Agreement;
 
WHEREAS, Northrop Grumman and TRW are parties to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 30, 2002 and consummated the closing of the transactions contemplated thereunder on December 11, 2002; and
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 7.12 of the Master Purchase Agreement, each of TRW and TAI hereby wish to become a party thereto.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.    .    Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Master Purchase Agreement.
Defined Terms
 
2.    .    TRW and TAI hereby agree to become, and are deemed to be, as of the date hereof, parties to the Master Purchase Agreement. Concurrently with the execution of this Amendment No. 1, each of TRW and TAI is delivering to BCP LLC a duly executed officer's certificate (in the forms attached hereto as and ) required pursuant to Section 7.12 of the Master Purchase Agreement.
TRW and TAI Parties
Exhibits A-1
A-2
 
3.    .    Except as set forth in this Amendment No. 1, the Master Purchase Agreement is ratified and confirmed in all respects. This Amendment No. 1 shall be effective as of the date hereof.
No Other Amendments; Effectiveness
 
4.    .    This Amendment No. 1 shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has duly executed this Amendment No. 1 as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 


