FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20020812172021.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
99.1    Transmittal Letter
99.2    Sworn Statement of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
99.3    Sworn Statement of Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Furnished herewith are the transmittal letter and the sworn statements required by Securities and Exchange Commission Order File No. 4-460 pursuant to Section 21(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that were transmitted today via telecopy (with originals sent for next day delivery) to the Secretary of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Via Telecopy: (202) 942-9651; and
FedEx
 
Jonathon G. Katz, Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
450 Fifth Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20549-0609
 
Re: Commission Order of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
File No. 4-460 pursuant to Section 21(a)(i)
 
Dear Mr. Katz:
 
Transmitted herewith are written statements under oath of Kent Kresa, Northrop Grumman Corporation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Richard B. Waugh, Jr., Northrop Grumman's Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, both in the form of Exhibit A to the above-captioned Order and each declaring that the contents of the statement have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Northrop Grumman Corporation Board of Directors.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
I, Kent Kresa, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer), state and attest that:
 
(1)  To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Northrop Grumman Corporation, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:
 
 
 
(2)  I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Northrop Grumman Corporation.
 
(3)  In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report":
 
 
 
 
 
 
    The Office of Management and Budget has approved this collection of information pursuant to 44 U.S.C.  3507 and 5 C.F.R.  1320.13. The OMB control number for this collection of information pursuant to this Order and Exhibit A is 3235-0569, and it expires on January 31, 2003. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid control number. The information will be used to provide greater assurance to the Commission and to investors that persons have not violated, or are not currently violating, the provisions of the federal securities laws governing corporate issuers' financial reporting and accounting practices, and to aid the Commission in assessing whether it is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors for the Commission to adopt or amend rules and regulations governing corporate issuers' financial practices and/or for the Commission to recommend legislation to Congress concerning these matters. We estimate that providing the requested information will take, on average, approximately 25 hours. Any member of the public may direct to the Commission any comments concerning the accuracy of this burden estimate and any suggestions for reducing this burden. Responses to the collection of information are mandatory and will not be kept confidential.
Paperwork Reduction Act Disclosure:
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings
 
I, Richard B. Waugh, Jr., Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer), state and attest that:
 
(1)  To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Northrop Grumman Corporation, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:
 
 
(2)  I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Northrop Grumman Corporation.
 
(3)  In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report":
 
 
 
 
 
 
    The Office of Management and Budget has approved this collection of information pursuant to 44 U.S.C.  3507 and 5 C.F.R.  1320.13. The OMB control number for this collection of information pursuant to this Order and Exhibit A is 3235-0569, and it expires on January 31, 2003. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid control number. The information will be used to provide greater assurance to the Commission and to investors that persons have not violated, or are not currently violating, the provisions of the federal securities laws governing corporate issuers' financial reporting and accounting practices, and to aid the Commission in assessing whether it is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors for the Commission to adopt or amend rules and regulations governing corporate issuers' financial practices and/or for the Commission to recommend legislation to Congress concerning these matters. We estimate that providing the requested information will take, on average, approximately 25 hours. Any member of the public may direct to the Commission any comments concerning the accuracy of this burden estimate and any suggestions for reducing this burden. Responses to the collection of information are mandatory and will not be kept confidential.
Paperwork Reduction Act Disclosure:


