FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20021125172648.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): November 25, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events
 
 
Northrop Grumman Corporation will commence the mailing of supplemental disclosure material to the joint proxy statement/prospectus dated November 4, 2002 of Northrop Grumman and TRW Inc. to Northrop Grumman stockholders on or about November 26, 2002. The full text of the supplemental disclosure material is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
                (c)    Exhibits
 
                        99.1 Supplemental Disclosure Material
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
November 25, 2002
 
To Northrop Grumman Corporation's stockholders:
 
On November 18, 2002, Northrop Grumman Corporation signed a Master Purchase Agreement providing for the sale and transfer by Northrop Grumman of the assets and certain liabilities of TRW Inc.'s automotive business to The Blackstone Group following completion of the Northrop Grumman/TRW Merger. As described in the joint proxy statement/prospectus dated November 4, 2002 previously sent to you for the December 11, 2002 special meeting of Northrop Grumman stockholders, the disposition of the automotive business has always been our plan and it is gratifying to announce the signing of a definitive agreement.
 
The sale of the automotive business will not occur until completion of the Northrop Grumman/TRW Merger described in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and the other conditions described in the Master Purchase Agreement are either satisfied or waived. The attached materials summarize the material terms and conditions of the Master Purchase Agreement and other matters relating to the proposed sale, including the potential effect of the transaction with The Blackstone Group on the pro forma financial information presented in the joint proxy statement/prospectus previously sent to you. Please review these materials carefully prior to voting on the merger at the special meeting on December 11, 2002, and thank you for your continued interest and support.
 
Sincerely yours,
 
Kent Kresa,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Northrop Grumman Corporation
 
Enclosed is an additional proxy card, which you can use to vote your shares with respect to the Northrop Grumman/TRW Merger if you have not already done so.
 
If you already have voted and do not wish to change your vote, you do not need to do anything.
 
If you already have voted and wish to change your vote, you can do so by completing, signing and returning the enclosed proxy card or by following the instructions for telephone or internet voting on the proxy card.
 
REMEMBER THAT THE LAST DATED PROXY YOU SUBMIT WILL BE COUNTED AT THE DECEMBER 11th SPECIAL MEETING FOR THE MERGER, WHETHER IT IS SUBMITTED BY MAIL, BY TELEPHONE OR OVER THE INTERNET.
 
 
This document contains information which supplements the information in the joint proxy statement/prospectus dated November 4, 2002 previously sent to Northrop Grumman stockholders and TRW shareholders. This document is first being mailed to such stockholders and shareholders on or about November 26, 2002 and should be read in conjunction with the joint proxy statement/prospectus.
 
This document summarizes the material terms and conditions of the proposed sale (referred to as the "Automotive Sale") of TRW Inc.'s automotive business (referred to as the "Automotive Business") pursuant to a Master Purchase Agreement between BCP Acquisition Company L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company and subsidiary of Blackstone Capital Partners (referred to as "BCP Acquisition"), and Northrop Grumman Corporation, a Delaware corporation (referred to as "Northrop Grumman").
 
 
On November 18, 2002, Northrop Grumman and BCP Acquisition signed a Master Purchase Agreement providing for the sale and transfer of the Automotive Business to one or more entities formed by BCP Acquisition (referred to collectively as the "Purchaser"). The assets and liabilities subject to the Master Purchase Agreement constitute substantially all the assets and operating and contractual liabilities associated with the Automotive Business, subject to a purchase price adjustment with respect to the assumption of indebtedness as described below. These assets and liabilities are expected to be acquired by Northrop Grumman in the fourth quarter of 2002 in the proposed merger (the "TRW Merger") of Richmond Acquisition Corp., an Ohio corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Northrop Grumman, with and into TRW, with TRW surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Northrop Grumman. Therefore, the Automotive Sale cannot occur unless the TRW Merger is completed, among other things, as described in greater detail in the section entitled "THE MASTER PURCHASE AGREEMENTConditions to the Completion of the Automotive Sale" below. Please note that references to TRW and its subsidiaries in this document refer to those entities after the TRW Merger occurs, unless the context clearly suggests otherwise.
 
 
This document is intended to summarize the material terms and conditions of the Automotive Sale. The Master Purchase Agreement itself was filed as an exhibit to Northrop Grumman's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 19, 2002 and is available without charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Northrop Grumman stockholders and TRW shareholders should read the Master Purchase Agreement and related exhibits as they contain important information regarding the Automotive Sale.
 
Structure of the Automotive Sale
 
Prior to the sale of the Automotive Business to the Purchaser, substantially all the assets and certain of the liabilities associated with the Automotive Business will be transferred to and assumed by one or more newly-formed TRW entities (referred to as the "New Auto Entities"). In the Automotive Sale, the Purchaser will acquire 100% of the equity interests of the New Auto Entities from TRW and its affiliates, which will then be direct or indirect subsidiaries of Northrop Grumman as a result of the TRW Merger.
 
Closing of the Automotive Sale
 
The closing of the Automotive Sale will take place within three business days after the of:
later
 
 
 
 
 
Northrop Grumman and the Purchaser currently anticipate that the Automotive Sale will be completed in the first quarter of 2003.
 
Consideration to be Received in the Automotive Sale
 
TRW and its affiliates, as wholly-owned subsidiaries of Northrop Grumman, collectively will receive from the Purchaser:
 
 
 
 
This cash amount also could be increased to up to approximately $3.95 billion if additional parties purchase equity of the Purchaser as described in "Reduction of the TRW Equity Interest" below.
 
In addition, TRW and its affiliates, as wholly-owned subsidiaries of Northrop Grumman, will receive:
 
 
 
Reduction of the TRW Equity Interest
 
During the period from the signing of the Master Purchase Agreement until the closing of the Automotive Sale, the Purchaser has agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to solicit purchases of shares of capital stock of the Purchaser from additional equity investors. Any shares sold will reduce the BCP Acquisition equity interest in the Purchaser and the TRW Equity Interest equally. BCP Acquisition is authorized to arrange for the sale of up to $196 million of the initial TRW Equity Interest, which will reduce the TRW Equity Interest to approximately 19.9% and will thereby increase the aggregate cash proceeds paid to TRW from the Automotive Sale to approximately $3.95 billion.
 
Terms of the Subordinated Note
 
Part of the consideration paid to TRW and its affiliates in connection with the Automotive Sale will be a subordinated promissory note from the Purchaser with a face amount of $600 million. The principal terms of the subordinated note are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions to the Automotive Sale
 
The obligations of each party to complete the Automotive Sale are subject to satisfaction or waiver of the following conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The obligations of the Purchaser to complete the Automotive Sale is subject to satisfaction or waiver of customary conditions, including among others the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The obligations of Northrop Grumman, TRW and TRW Automotive to complete the Automotive Sale are subject to satisfaction or waiver of the customary conditions including among others, that Northrop Grumman shall have received a solvency letter from an independent valuation firm reasonably acceptable to Northrop Grumman confirming the solvency of the Purchaser after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Master Purchase Agreement.
 
Representations, Warranties and Covenants
 
The Master Purchase Agreement contains representations and warranties of the parties regarding customary matters pertaining to the Automotive Business, corporate matters and the availability of financing commitments. The Master Purchase Agreement also includes certain customary covenants of the parties related to actions and obligations of the parties prior to and after the Automotive Sale.
 
In addition, the Master Purchase Agreement contains a covenant of Northrop Grumman, TRW and their respective subsidiaries not to directly or indirectly compete with the Automotive Business for five years after the Automotive Sale.
 
Termination of Master Purchase Agreement
 
The Master Purchase Agreement may be terminated prior to the Automotive Sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect of Termination
 
The Master Purchase Agreement provides for a termination fee and reimbursement of certain expenses if the Master Purchase Agreement is terminated in the circumstances described below.
 
Termination Fee
 
If either party terminates the Master Purchase Agreement:
 
 
 
Northrop Grumman must pay BCP Acquisition a fee equal to 27.3% of the fee paid by TRW as liquidated damages; , , that BCP Acquisition must refund the liquidated damages with interest from the date of payment if BCP Acquisition or any of its affiliates completes an acquisition of the Automotive Business within 18 months after the date Northrop Grumman pays the liquidated damages fee.
provided
however
 
Expense Reimbursement
 
If the Master Purchase Agreement is terminated by BCP Acquisition pursuant to the Non-Certification Termination Right, Northrop Grumman must reimburse BCP Acquisition and certain of its affiliates for up to $15 million of the documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by such parties after August 6, 2002 in connection with the Master Purchase Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby.
 
Indemnification
 
The parties have agreed that from and after the closing of the Automotive Sale, the indemnification provisions in the Master Purchase Agreement will be the sole and exclusive remedy of the parties, with certain limitations. These provisions provide for indemnification for losses relating to specified events, subject to a $50 million deductible with respect to aggregate losses suffered by a party seeking indemnity (other than losses from certain specified matters not subject to the deductible) and with a maximum of $500 million of aggregate losses for which indemnity for breaches of representations and warranties may be claimed (other than losses from certain specified representations and warranties as to which this maximum limit does not apply).
 
Northrop Grumman's Obligations
 
Subject to certain limitations, Northrop Grumman has agreed to, or to cause TRW to, indemnify the Purchaser and each of its directors, officers, employees, affiliates, agents, successors and assigns, harmless from and against any losses based upon:
 
 
 
 
In addition, Northrop Grumman has agreed to indemnify and hold the Purchaser harmless from and against:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Purchaser's Obligations
 
Subject to certain limitations, the parties have agreed to cause the Purchaser to indemnify and hold harmless Northrop Grumman, TRW and TRW Automotive and each of their directors, officers, employees, affiliates, agents, successors and assigns, harmless from and against any and all losses based upon:
 
 
 
 
 
No-Shop Restrictions
 
The Master Purchase Agreement contains customary restrictions and prohibitions on Northrop Grumman or TRW (after the TRW Merger) continuing or pursuing discussions regarding any competing proposal to the Automotive Sale. BCP Acquisition also has agreed to certain restrictions and prohibitions on facilitating, participating in or providing information in connection with any acquisition proposal other than the Automotive Sale.
 
Ancillary Agreements
 
The Master Purchase Agreement provides that the parties will enter into agreements governing certain relationships between and among the parties after the closing of the Automotive Sale. These agreements (referred to as the "Ancillary Agreements") include:
 
 
 
 
 
Other Agreements
 
The parties also have agreed to negotiate in good faith a stockholders agreement, based on certain agreed principles, which provides for the governance of the Purchaser entity in which TRW holds the TRW Equity Interest and its direct or indirect subsidiaries after the Automotive Sale. This stockholders agreement also will contain provisions relating to certain specific stockholder rights, such as registration rights and co-sale rights with respect to certain sales of capital stock.
 
In addition, the parties contemplate that the Purchaser and Blackstone Management Partners IV, L.L.C., will enter into a transaction and monitoring fee agreement providing for certain structuring, advisory and management services and related fees and reimbursement of expenses. Under the terms of this agreement, Blackstone Management Partners IV, L.L.C. will receive a $49 million transaction and advisory fee relating to the Automotive Sale, an annual monitoring fee of $5 million and will be reimbursed for certain expenses relating to the services from the closing of the Automotive Sale through the "Termination Date" (as defined in the agreement).
 
 
Source of Funds
 
The Purchaser contemplates raising up to $3.257 billion through the issuance of debt securities of the Purchaser entity that will hold the Automotive Business. There is an express financing condition to the Automotive Sale which requires that BCP Acquisition Corp. (or such direct and indirect subsidiaries) successfully complete such a debt financing transaction on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the commitment letters relating to such financings.
 
Potential Effect of Automotive Sale on Pro Formas
 
Pages 104 through 111 of the joint proxy statement/prospectus dated November 4, 2002 previously mailed to Northrop Grumman stockholders and TRW shareholders contain unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and related notes (the "Pro Formas") which reflect the pro forma effect of a sale of the Automotive Business for $5 billion in cash. The following information should be read in conjunction with the Pro Formas, because it describes certain differences from the Pro Formas in light of the terms of the Automotive Sale set forth in the Master Purchase Agreement. As described above, Northrop Grumman believes that the 42.4% equity interest in the Purchaser payable to TRW connection with in the Automotive Sale will be reduced to approximately 19.9% before the Automotive Sale closes. Therefore, the following information assumes such a reduction, unless expressly noted otherwise.
 
With respect to the effect on the balance sheet at June 30, 2002 on page 106 of the joint proxy statement/prospectus:
 
 
 
 
 
 
With respect to the effect on the income statements presented on pages 107 through 109 of the joint proxy statement/prospectus:
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain statements and assumptions in these materials contain or are based on "forward-looking" information and involve risks and uncertainties. Northrop Grumman and TRW believe that such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking information includes, among other things, statements as to the impact of the items described on revenues and earnings, and other statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, business strategies, operating efficiencies or synergies, competitive positions, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management, and other matters. Such statements are subject to numerous assumptions and uncertainties, many of which are outside of Northrop Grumman's and TRW's control. These include completion of the Automotive Sale, governmental regulatory processes, Northrop Grumman's ability to successfully integrate the operations of TRW, Northrop Grumman's ability to realize preliminary accounting estimates for accounting conformance and purchase accounting valuations for TRW, which can only be finalized after close of the relevant transaction and which may materially vary from these estimates, assumptions with respect to future revenues, expected program performance and cash flows, the outcome of contingencies including, among others, the timing and amounts of tax payments, litigation matters, environmental claims and remediation efforts, divestitures of businesses, successful negotiation of contracts with labor unions, and anticipated costs of capital investments. Northrop Grumman's and TRW's respective operations are subject to various additional risks and uncertainties resulting from their positions as suppliers, either directly or as subcontractors or team members, to the United States government and its agencies, as well as to foreign governments and agencies.
 
Actual outcomes are dependent upon many factors. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "hopes," "targets" or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this joint proxy statement/prospectus, and in the case of documents incorporated by reference, as of the date of those documents. Neither Northrop Grumman nor TRW undertakes any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statements or to report any events or circumstances after the date of this joint proxy statement/prospectus or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
Any questions or requests for assistance or additional copies of these materials or the joint proxy statement/prospectus dated November 4, 2002 may be directed to the respective information agents at their respective telephone numbers and locations listed below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shareholders may also contact their local broker, commercial bank, trust company or nominee for assistance concerning these supplemental materials.
 
 
The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints W. Burks Terry and John H. Mullan, and each of them, attorneys and proxies with full power of substitution, to represent the undersigned and to vote all shares of Common Stock, $1.00 par value, of Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company"), that the undersigned would be entitled to vote if personally present at the Special Meeting of Stockholders of the Company to be held on Wednesday, December 11, 2002 at 9:00 a.m. (Pacific Standard Time) at the Fairmont Miramar Hotel, 101 Wilshire Boulevard, Santa Monica, California 90401, and at any and all adjournments or postponements thereof (the "Meeting"), as specified on the reverse side of this card (or, if no direction is given, "FOR" Proposal 1) and in such proxyholder's discretion upon any other matter that may properly come before the Special Meeting.
 
THIS PROXY WILL BE VOTED AS DIRECTED. IF NOT OTHERWISE DIRECTED, THIS PROXY WILL BE VOTED "FOR" PROPOSAL 1.
 
PLEASE MARK, DATE AND SIGN THIS PROXY AND RETURN IT PROMPTLY, EVEN IF YOU PLAN TO ATTEND THE SPECIAL MEETING.
 
If shares are held on your behalf under any of the Company Savings Plans, this proxy/voting instruction card serves to provide confidential instructions to the plan Trustee who then votes the shares. Instructions must be received on or before December 5, 2002 to be included in the tabulation for the Trustee's vote. If no instructions are provided, the applicable Trustee will vote the respective plan shares according to the provisions of the applicable plan documents and/or trust agreements.
 
 
x
Please mark your
vote as indicated
at left.
 
This proxy will be voted as marked or, if not otherwise marked, this proxy will be voted "FOR" Proposal 1.
 
 
 
 
                                                                                       
 
 ,  2002
                                                                      
SIGNATURE(S)                                                     DATE
 
 
 
Your vote is important. Please consider the issues discussed in the proxy statement and cast your vote by:
 
 
You can vote by phone or via the Internet anytime on or before December 10, 2002. You will need the control number printed at the top of this instruction card to vote by phone or via the Internet. If you do so, you do not need to mail in your proxy/voting instruction card. If you mail your proxy/voting instruction card, it must be received on or before December 10, 2002. However, if you are voting shares you hold in the Company Savings Plans, your proxy/voting instruction card or your phone or internet vote must be received by December 5, 2002.
 


