FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20051025081221.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On October 25, 2005, Northrop Grumman Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, under the heading "Northrop Grumman Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results." The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.
 
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the Requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
Northrop Grumman Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations $0.80
 
Income from Continuing Operations $288 Million
 
Cash from Operations Increases to Approximately $900 Million
 
2005 Guidance for Earnings per Share Increased to $3.60 to $3.70
 
2006 Guidance for Earnings per Share of $4.10 to $4.30 Confirmed
 
2005 and 2006 Guidance for Sales and Cash from Operations Confirmed
 
LOS ANGELES  Oct. 25, 2005  Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE: NOC) reported third quarter 2005 income from continuing operations of $288 million, or $0.80 per diluted share, compared with $291 million, or $0.80 per diluted share, for the same period of 2004. Third quarter 2005 sales were unchanged at $7.4 billion.
 
As announced on Oct. 10, 2005, Northrop Grumman's third quarter 2005 consolidated sales and earnings were negatively impacted by hurricane damage to the company's Ship Systems facilities on the Gulf Coast. Hurricane-related impacts reduced Ships third quarter operating margin by $165 million and reduced consolidated third quarter earnings by $0.30 per diluted share. The hurricane-related impacts were partially offset by the sale of 2.1 million shares of Endwave Corporation (Nasdaq: ENWV) common stock, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $81 million, or $0.15 per diluted share.
 
"We again demonstrated our ability to produce higher sales, margin and cash across our businesses," said Ronald D. Sugar, Northrop Grumman chairman, chief executive officer and president. "Although Hurricane Katrina impacted Ships, sales and operating margin rose in every other business, and we've generated $2 billion in operating cash year to date, 20 percent more than last year."
 
The company's third quarter 2005 consolidated operating margin includes higher operating margin in all of the company's segments, with the exception of Ships, and operating margin rate expansion in Mission Systems, Information Technology and Space Technology.
 
 
Northrop Grumman Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
Operating margin declined to $433 million from $538 million for the same period of 2004, due to the hurricane-related impacts in Ships.
 
Unallocated expenses for the 2005 third quarter declined to $42 million from $62 million in the same period of 2004 reflecting lower legal costs and lower mark-to-market stock compensation expense.
 
During the third quarter of 2005, the company sold 2.1 million shares of Endwave common stock, which generated $81 million in pre-tax earnings. This contributed to the increase in Other, net for the 2005 third quarter to $95 million from an expense of $6 million for the same period in 2004.
 
The effective tax rate applied to income from continuing operations for the 2005 third quarter was 33.8 percent compared with 34.2 percent in the 2004 third quarter.
 
Net income for the 2005 third quarter increased to $293 million, or $0.81 per diluted share, from $278 million, or $0.76 per diluted share, for the same period of 2004. Third quarter 2005 net income reflects a $5 million gain on disposal of discontinued operations, and third quarter 2004 results include a $13 million loss on disposal of discontinued operations.
 
Contract acquisitions increased to $5.2 billion in the third quarter of 2005 from $4.7 billion for the same period of 2004. Total backlog, which includes funded backlog and firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer, was $56.2 billion at Sept. 30, 2005.
 
Cash Measurements and Debt
 
Net cash provided by operating activities for the 2005 third quarter increased to $891 million from $739 million for the third quarter of 2004. Capital spending in the 2005 third quarter totaled $173 million.
 
Northrop Grumman's total debt was $5.2 billion at Sept. 30, 2005, unchanged from Dec. 31, 2004. Net debt was $3.4 billion at Sept. 30, 2005, compared with $3.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2004.
 
2005 & 2006 Guidance
 
For 2005, the company expects sales to increase to between $30.5 and $31 billion, and earnings from continuing operations to increase to $3.60 to $3.70 per diluted share. The 2005 guidance includes estimated pension expense as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of $415 million, and government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) pension expense of $395 million. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2005 is expected to range between $2.2 and $2.5 billion.
 
For 2006, the company expects sales to increase to approximately $32 billion, and earnings from continuing operations to increase to between $4.10 and $4.30 per diluted share, which assumes that pension expense as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and CAS pension expense are the same as estimates for
 
Northrop Grumman Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
2005. Actual 2006 pension expense is subject to variation and will depend on plan asset returns in 2005 and discount rate and expected rate of return assumptions. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2006 is expected to range between $2.3 and $2.5 billion.
 
Segment Results
 
Effective Jan. 1, 2005, certain business areas within the Electronic Systems, Ships and Space Technology segments were realigned and some business areas have been renamed. Where applicable, all prior period information has been reclassified to reflect these realignments, as shown in Schedule 5 of this press release. In addition, the Air Combat Systems business area in the Integrated Systems segment has been renamed and is referred to as Integrated Systems Western Region in the discussion below.
 
ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS
 
 
Electronic Systems third quarter 2005 sales increased 2 percent from the third quarter of 2004 primarily due to increases in Government Systems and Defensive & Navigation Systems, which were partially offset by lower sales in Aerospace Systems. Government Systems sales increased 32 percent, and Defensive & Navigation Systems sales increased 11 percent. Electronic Systems third quarter 2005 operating margin increased 2 percent from the third quarter of 2004.
 
On Jan. 1, 2005, the manufacturer of complex printed circuit boards and assemblies and the electronic connector manufacturer previously reported under "Other" were realigned to the company's Electronic Systems segment. The impact to prior year results for Electronic Systems is not significant and prior year results have not been reclassified.
 
SHIPS
 
 
Ships third quarter 2005 sales, which include the financial results of the Newport News and Ship Systems sectors, decreased 20 percent from the third quarter of 2004, due to hurricane impacts and lower DD(X) sales at the Ship Systems sector. Sales in Surface Combatants, Expeditionary Warfare and Commercial & Other declined due to hurricane-related work delays and the adjustment of prior sales to account for hurricane-related cost growth. The decrease in Surface Combatants also includes lower DD(X) sales than in the prior year period. Sales in
 
Northrop Grumman Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
Submarines and Aircraft Carriers increased 6 percent and 4 percent, respectively, over the prior year results.
 
The decline in Ships third quarter 2005 operating margin reflects a $150 million cumulative adjustment to account for hurricane-related cost growth at the Ship Systems sector, as well as a $15 million impact from hurricane-related work delays at Ship Systems. Third quarter 2005 results also include higher margin in Aircraft Carriers and Submarines due to higher sales volume and improved performance.
 
INTEGRATED SYSTEMS
 
 
Integrated Systems third quarter 2005 sales increased 23 percent from the third quarter of 2004 due to higher sales in Airborne Early Warning & Electronic Warfare Systems and Integrated Systems Western Region. Airborne Early Warning & Electronic Warfare Systems sales increased 42 percent due to higher volume from the E-2 Advanced Hawkeye and EA-18G programs, and Integrated Systems Western Region sales increased 18 percent due to higher sales in the Joint Unmanned Combat Air System (J-UCAS), Multi-Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP-RTIP) and B-2 programs.
 
Integrated Systems third quarter 2005 operating margin increased 7 percent from the third quarter of 2004 reflecting higher sales offset by a higher proportion of lower margin development program sales than in the prior year period.
 
MISSION SYSTEMS
 
 
Mission Systems third quarter 2005 sales increased 11 percent from the third quarter of 2004 due to higher sales in Missile Systems and Command, Control & Intelligence Systems. Missile Systems sales rose 31 percent primarily due to higher revenue in the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile program. Command, Control & Intelligence Systems revenue rose 5 percent.
 
Mission Systems third quarter 2005 operating margin increased 22 percent from the third quarter of 2004 primarily due to higher sales and improved performance in Missile Systems and Command, Control & Intelligence Systems.
 
Northrop Grumman Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
 
 
Information Technology third quarter 2005 sales increased 4 percent from the third quarter of 2004 due to higher sales in Government Information Technology and Commercial Information Technology, partially offset by lower sales in Enterprise Information Technology. Government Information Technology sales rose 9 percent due to higher volume in existing programs, new program awards, and the acquisition of Integic. Commercial Information Technology sales rose 11 percent, primarily due to higher volume on existing programs and new program awards.
 
Information Technology third quarter 2005 operating margin increased 16 percent from the third quarter of 2004, primarily due to higher sales in Government Information Technology and Commercial Information Technology and improved performance in Commercial Information Technology and Technology Services, partially offset by lower performance in Enterprise Information Technology.
 
SPACE TECHNOLOGY
 
 
Space Technology third quarter 2005 sales increased 2 percent from the third quarter of 2004, primarily due to higher sales in Civil Space and Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance, which were partially offset by lower sales in Missile & Space Defense and Satellite Communications. Civil Space revenue increased 23 percent, due to higher volume from NASA and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration programs. Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance revenue rose 6 percent due to higher volume in restricted programs.
 
Space Technology third quarter 2005 operating margin increased 18 percent from the third quarter of 2004 primarily due to improved performance in Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance and higher sales volume in Civil Space.
 
Third Quarter 2005 Highlights
 
 
Northrop Grumman Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Northrop Grumman
 
Northrop Grumman Corporation is a global defense company headquartered in Los Angeles, Calif. Northrop Grumman provides technologically advanced, innovative products,
 
Northrop Grumman Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
services and solutions in systems integration, defense electronics, information technology, advanced aircraft, shipbuilding and space technology. With more than 125,000 employees, and operations in all 50 states and 25 countries, Northrop Grumman serves U.S. and international military, government and commercial customers.
 
Northrop Grumman will webcast its earnings conference call at 12 p.m. ET on Oct. 25, 2005. A live audio broadcast of the conference call along with a supplemental presentation will be available on the investor relations page of the company's Web site at
www.northropgrumman.com.
 
Note: Certain statements and assumptions in this release contain or are based on "forward-looking" information that Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company) believes to be within the definition in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties, and include, among others, statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as "project," "expect," "estimate," "assume," "believe," "guidance" or variations thereof. This information reflects the Company's best estimates when made, but the company expressly disclaims any duty to update this information if new data becomes available or estimates change after the date of this release.
 
Such "forward-looking" information includes, among other things, financial guidance regarding sales, segment operating margin, pension expense, employer contributions under pension plans and medical and life benefits plans, and cash flow, and is subject to numerous assumptions and uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company's control. These include the Company's assumptions with respect to future revenues, expected program performance and cash flows, returns on pension plan assets and variability of pension actuarial and related assumptions, the outcome of litigation and appeals, hurricane recoveries, environmental remediation, divestitures of businesses, successful reduction of debt, successful negotiation of contracts with labor unions, effective tax rates and timing and amounts of tax payments, the results of any audit or appeal process with the Internal Revenue Service, and anticipated costs of capital investments, among other things.
 
The Company's operations are subject to various additional risks and uncertainties resulting from its position as a supplier, either directly or as subcontractor or team member, to the U.S. Government and its agencies as well as to foreign governments and agencies; actual outcomes are dependent upon various factors, including, without limitation, the Company's successful performance of internal plans; government customers' budgetary constraints; customer changes in short-range and long-range plans; domestic and international competition in both the defense and commercial areas; product performance; continued development and acceptance of new products and, in connection with any fixed price development programs, controlling cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates; performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors; government import and export policies; acquisition or termination of government contracts; the outcome of political and legal processes and of the assertion or prosecution of potential substantial claims by or on behalf of a U.S. Government customer; natural disasters, including recent hurricanes affecting the Company's Gulf Coast shipyards and the associated risks underlying the Company's assumptions regarding timely return of experienced workers with critical skills, achieving expected learning-curve progress, amounts and timing of recoveries under insurance contracts, availability of materials and supplies, reconstitution of the supply chain and other infrastructure within and outside Company facilities to enable efficient production, contractual performance relief and the application of cost sharing terms, impacts of timing of cash receipts and the availability of other mitigating elements; terrorist acts; legal, financial, and governmental risks related to international transactions and global needs for military aircraft, military and civilian electronic systems and support, information technology, naval vessels, space systems and related technologies, as well as other economic, political and technological risks and uncertainties and other risk factors set out in the Company's filings from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, Company reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
 
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
 
 
 
 
Pension expense is included in determining segment operating margin to the extent that the cost is currently recognized under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS). In order to reconcile from segment operating margin to total company operating margin, these amounts are reported under the caption "Reversal of CAS pension expense included above." Total pension expense or income determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States is reported separately as a reconciling item under the caption "Pension expense." The reconciling item captioned "Unallocated expenses" includes the portion of corporate, legal, environmental, other retiree benefits, stock compensation, and other expenses not allocated to the segments.
SCHEDULE 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 5
 
Electronic Systems
 


