FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20050118063013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1Registrant's Business and Operations
 
 
On January 14, 2005 the Compensation and Management Development Committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors ("Board") of Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") approved an agreement subsequently entered into on that date (the "Agreement") between the Company and Charles H. Noski, the Chief Financial Officer of the Company that provides for Mr. Noski's resignation on the day after the Company's Form 10-K for 2004 is accepted by the SEC. The Agreement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. As set forth in the Agreement, Mr. Noski will receive a prorated 2005 bonus under the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan and be eligible to exercise his vested options until 90 days after he is notified that the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ending June 30, 2005 has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
On January 14, 2005 Charles H. Noski, the Chief Financial Officer of Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") agreed to resign on the day after the SEC's acceptance of the filing of the Company's Form 10-K for 2004 (the Agreement provides that Mr. Noski will continue to supervise the preparation of the Form 10-K and would sign as the Chief Financial Officer). The Agreement contains the terms applicable to Mr. Noski's resignation and provides that Mr. Noski's Employment Agreement with the Company will terminate on the date of his resignation except as set forth in the Agreement. The Agreement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. Mr. Noski's term as a Director of the Company will expire on the day of the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, May 17, 2005 and he has indicated he will not stand for re-election to the Board.
 
Section 5Corporate Governance and Management
 
 
On January 14, 2005 Charles H. Noski, the Chief Financial Officer of Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") agreed to resign as an employee of the Company on the day after the SEC's acceptance of the filing of the Company's Form 10-K for 2004 (Mr. Noski would continue to supervise the preparation of the Form 10-K and would sign as the Chief Financial Officer). The Agreement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. Mr. Noski will not stand for re-election to the Company's Board of Directors at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 17, 2005.
Item 5.02(b)
 
On January 14, 2005, the Company's Board of Directors elected Wesley G. Bush as Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective upon the departure of Mr. Charles H. Noski as described in Item 5.02(b) above following the filing of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Item 5.02(c)
 
Mr. Bush is 43 years of age and currently is Corporate Vice President and President of the Company's Space Technology sector. Prior to the acquisition of TRW Inc., Mr. Bush was Executive Vice President of TRW Inc., and President and Chief Executive Officer of TRW Aeronautical Systems (2001-2001); Vice President and General Manager, TRW Ventures, TRW Space & Electronics Group (2000-2001); Vice President and General Manager, Telecommunications Division, TRW Space & Electronics Group (1999); Vice President, Planning and Business Development, TRW Space and Electronics Group (1998).
 
The Company has advised Mr. Bush that his salary, bonus opportunity and equity incentives will be reviewed and revised as appropriate to align them with the duties and responsibilities of the Chief Financial Officer position.
 
There are no family relationships between Mr. Bush and any director or executive officer of the Company.
 
Mr. Bush currently does not serve as a director of any company with a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Exchange Act or subject to the requirements of section 15(d) of such Act or any company registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1Agreement between Charles H. Noski and Northrop Grumman Corporation, dated January 14, 2005.
 
Exhibit 99.2Agreement dated December 12, 2002 between Wesley G. Bush and Northrop Grumman Corporation in contemplation of the acquisition of TRW Inc. by Northrop Grumman Corporation.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the Requirements of the Security Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
January 14, 2005
 
Mr. Charles Noski
 
Dear Chuck:
 
Discussions have occurred between us regarding your potential resignation as a Corporate Vice President and the Chief Financial Officer of Northrop Grumman Corporation ("Northrop Grumman"). This letter constitutes my understanding of the terms that would govern your resignation. As we have discussed, your decision to resign and this agreement have been approved by the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Committee"). Northrop Grumman regretfully accepts your resignation with sincere appreciation for the outstanding job you have done as both Chief Financial Officer and as a member of the Board of Directors.
 
The terms and conditions of your resignation are set forth below:
 
1. As Chief Financial Officer you will continue to oversee the preparation and filing of the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 on behalf of Northrop Grumman and will sign the Form 10-K as the Chief Financial Officer. Your employment shall continue through the electronic acceptance of the Form 10-K by the SEC. Your resignation as an officer and employee of Northrop Grumman will be effective the day after the acceptance of the Form 10-K by the SEC. Northrop Grumman waives the notice requirement in 13 of your Employment Agreement with respect to your resignation.
 
2. We have agreed that you will not stand for reelection as a director when your term expires this year since you would not be an independent director.
 
3. Your resignation constitutes a termination under 13 of the Employment Agreement and, accordingly, Northrop Grumman's obligations under the Employment Agreement are as set forth therein, including the payment of your Accrued Obligations (as defined in 10C of the Employment Agreement). Section 10C(x) entitles you to a
bonus under the Incentive Compensation Plan for calendar year 2004, and the Committee has accepted and approved my recommendation to it that such bonus be calculated by using an Individual Performance Factor that reflects my evaluation of your performance during 2004, which factor will be, of course, no less than 1.0, and that you have a UPF applied consistent with that which is applied for other members of the Corporate Policy Council.
 
4. Pursuant to the terms of the grant certificate for your 2003 stock option award, you are vested in 22,500 options. Your time for exercising these options would otherwise expire on the 90
th
day after your resignation. Northrop Grumman agrees to extend your time for exercise of these options until the date that is 90 days after the date on which you are notified that the company has filed its Form 10-Q for the quarter ending June 30, 2005.
 
5. You shall receive a prorated 2005 bonus under the Incentive Compensation Plan, payable in 2006 at the same time as other executives are paid bonuses under the Incentive Compensation Plan. The prorated bonus shall be determined by dividing the number of days you are employed by Northrop Grumman during 2005 by 365. For the purpose of computing this bonus, your Individual Performance Factor will be 1.0 and your UPF shall be consistent with that for members of the Corporate Policy Council.
 
6. Your Employment Agreement shall terminate upon your resignation, except for certain terms that continue past termination as set forth in 26.
 
Please acknowledge that this agreement correctly sets forth the terms of your decision to resign by signing this letter and returning one copy to me. Thank you for your many contributions to Northrop Grumman both as our Chief Financial Officer and as a Director.
 
 
I agree to the terms outlined in this letter
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive shall, during the course of his employment during the term hereof:
 
 
 
and
 
 
 
 
TRW and Putnam Fiduciary Trust Company entered into a Rabbi Trust Agreement on or about December 5, 2002. Executive acknowledges and agrees that he is not entitled to any payment or benefit from the trust (the "Trust") formed pursuant to such agreement and the Payment Schedule pursuant to such agreement is hereby so amended. In the event that Executive receives any payment from the Trust, such payment shall offset on a dollar for dollar basis any obligation of the Company to Executive under this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The options, RPSRs, and RSRs granted to Executive shall be awarded under and shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's 2001 Long Term Incentive Stock Plan, as amended from time to time (the
 
"LTISP"), the Guide to Administration for the LTISP, as amended from time to time (the "Guide"), and the grant certificates provided to Executive.
 
The foregoing share, RPSR, and RSR numbers are subject to adjustment for stock splits and similar events in accordance with the adjustment provisions of the LTISP.
 
Each option granted to Executive on the Initial Grant Date shall have a maximum term of ten years and shall vest in four substantially equal installments, with an installment becoming vested, subject to Executive's continued employment through the respective vesting date, on each of the first through fourth anniversaries of the respective date of grant of the option.
 
The RPSRs granted on the Initial Grant Date shall have a January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005 performance period.
 
The options and RPSRs granted in or around August 2003 shall be on terms otherwise similar to the terms applicable to other Company elected officer grants made at that time. Performance targets for the grant shall be established by the Company.
 
Executive's RSR award shall vest in three substantially equal installments, with an installment becoming vested, subject to Executive's continued employment through the respective vesting date, on each of the first through third anniversaries of the date of grant of the award.
 
Notwithstanding any contrary death, Disability (as defined in the Guide), or involuntary separation vesting or RPSR payment provision that may customarily apply with respect to awards under the LTISP, the following special vesting and RPSR payment provisions shall apply with respect to Executive's option, RPSR, and RSR grants made as of the Initial Grant Date (but not the contemplated August 2003 awards or any other subsequent award) in the event that Executive's employment terminates in the circumstances described: in the event that Executive's employment with the Company terminates due to the Executive's death or Disability (as defined in the Guide) or in the event that Executive's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause (as defined in Section 8), then (a) the portion of Executive's options and RSRs granted on the Effective Date that are then outstanding and otherwise unvested shall thereupon become fully vested (but such options shall otherwise be subject to any limited post-termination exercise period that may apply), and (b) the Executive's RPSRs granted on the Effective Date shall be paid in accordance with their usual terms as though Executive's employment by the Company had not terminated (without pro ration) except that the
 
30% minimum payment provisions applicable to certain RPSRs shall not apply (accordingly, no payment of such RPSRs shall be made unless and until payments with respect to such RPSRs are made to participants who continue to be employed by the Company).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Life and AD&D Insurance
 
The noncontributory life insurance coverage provided to you is three times your annual base salary, with a maximum of $600,000. Accidental death and dismemberment coverage is six times your annual base salary, with a maximum of $1,000,000.
 
Long-term Disability
 
Benefit is 65% of base salary, with a maximum of $15,000 per month, including your Social Security benefit.
 
Medical Care
 
Provided you have not enrolled in the Safety Net Plan, you and your eligible dependents are covered by a supplemental plan which provides for reimbursement of 100% of allowable reasonable and customary charges, with an annual maximum of $10,000 per person. You will still be responsible for the deductible and required contributions.
 
Dental Care
 
Provided you have not enrolled in the Preventive Plan, you are covered by a supplemental plan which provides you and your family with 100% reimbursement of allowable reasonable and customary charges, with an annual maximum of $2,000. You will still be responsible for the deductible and required contributions.
 
Comprehensive Personal Liability
 
To help provide financial protection against potentially devastating effects of lawsuits, you have $5,000,000 comprehensive personal liability coverage to supplement your personal, nonbusiness coverage. There is a minimum personal coverage requirement, as well as a small deductible amount in some cases. Coverage is also extended to lawsuits arising out of ownership of such items as animals, swimming pools, boats, and all registered vehicles, excluding aircraft.
 
Executive Physical Program
 
Because Northrop Grumman regards the periodic physical examination of key personnel as being important to both the executive and the company, you are entitled to an annual, company-paid, comprehensive physical examination. This examination may be obtained from one of several designated medical centers.
 
Company Car/Allowance
 
Recognizing that most executives desire to have an attractive, comfortable automobile for their use, you will be paid an annual car allowance (currently $15,000), in increments with each regular paycheck. This allowance is designed to reimburse you for the cost of a new automobile every three years, plus insurance and maintenance costs. Reimbursements for gasoline and car washes will also be provided.
 
Financial Planning and Income Tax Return Preparation
 
In order to fully maximize the value of your executive compensation package, and to keep you abreast of current estate planning and related tax considerations, reimbursement will be made for financial planning assistance and income tax return preparation from a reputable firm of your choice. You will be reimbursed up to $9,000 per year for these services.
 
Air Travel
 
For air travel of two hours or longer, you may fly first class. The company will reimburse you for membership in two airline clubs.
 
Clubs
 
The company will reimburse you for membership (initiation fees, monthly dues, and general club assessments) in two clubs, with an annual maximum of $5,000.
 
 
 
 
(a) If it shall be determined (as hereafter provided) that any payment or distribution by the Company or TRW to or for the benefit of Executive, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise (a "Payment") either before or after any purported termination of this Agreement, would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 (or any successor thereto) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), with respect to a change in control triggered by the Merger, or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax related to a change in control triggered by the Merger, together with any such interest and penalties related thereto, are hereafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment or payments (collectively, a "Gross-Up Payment"); provided, however, that no Gross-Up Payment shall be made with respect to the Excise Tax, if any, attributable to (i) any incentive stock option, as defined by Section 422 of the Code ("ISO") granted prior to the execution of this Agreement, or (ii) any stock appreciation or similar right, whether or not limited, granted in tandem with any ISO described in clause (i). The Gross-Up Payment shall be in an amount such that, after payment by Executive of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including any Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payment.
 
(b) Subject to the provisions of clause (e) below, all determinations required to be made under this Exhibit B, including whether an Excise Tax is payable by Executive and the amount of such Excise Tax and whether a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, shall be made by a nationally recognized firm of certified public accountants (the "Accounting Firm") selected by Executive in his sole discretion. Executive shall direct the Accounting Firm to submit its determination and detailed supporting calculations to both the Company and Executive within 15 calendar days after the date that Executive's employment with the Company terminates, if applicable, or such earlier time or times as may be requested by the Company or Executive. If the Accounting Firm determines that any Excise Tax is payable by Executive, the Company shall pay the required Gross-Up Payment to Executive within five business days after receipt of the aforesaid determination and calculations. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Executive, it shall, at the same time as it makes such determination, furnish Executive with an opinion that he has substantial authority not to report any Excise Tax on his federal income tax return. Any determination by the Accounting Firm as to the amount of the Gross-Up Payment to be paid by the Company within such 15 calendar-day period shall be binding upon the Company and Executive. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 (or any successor thereto) of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 6(e) thereof and Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, Executive shall direct the
 
Accounting Firm to determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and to submit its determination and detailed supporting calculations to both the Company and Executive as promptly as possible. Any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of Executive within three calendar days after receipt of such determination and calculations.
 
(c) The Company and Executive shall each cooperate with the Accounting Firm in connection with the preparation and issuance of the determination provided for in clause (b) above. Such cooperation shall include without limitation providing the Accounting Firm access to and copies of any books, records and documents in the possession of the Company or Executive, as the case may be, that are reasonably requested by the Accounting Firm.
 
(d) The fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm for its services in connection with the determinations and calculations provided for in clause (b) above shall be paid by Executive. The Company shall reimburse Executive for his payment of such costs and expenses within five business days after receipt from Executive of a statement therefore and evidence of his payment thereof.
 
(e) Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of a Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than 10 business days after Executive receives notice of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the earlier of (i) the expiration of the 30 calendar-day period following the date on which it gives such notice to the Company or (ii) the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due. If the Company notifies Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, Executive shall:
 
(i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim;
 
(ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including without limitation accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company;
 
(iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim; and
 
(iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim;
 
provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and
 
shall indemnify and hold Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax, including interest and penalties with respect thereto, imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this clause (e), the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conference with the taxing authority in respect of such claim (but Executive may participate therein at his own cost and expense) and may, at its sole option, either direct Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that if the Company directs Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to Executive on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax, including interest or penalties with respect thereto, imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance; and further provided that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of Executive with respect to which the contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of such contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder, and Executive shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
 
(f) If, after the receipt by Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to clause (e) hereof, Executive receives any refund with respect to such claim, Executive shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of clause (e) hereof) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after any taxes applicable thereto). If, after the receipt by Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to clause (e) hereof, a determination is made that Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial or refund prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
 


