FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20061103153923.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On November 3, 2006, Northrop Grumman Corporation ("the Company") sent a notice to its directors and executive officers informing them that the Northrop Grumman Savings Plan was changing its record keeper and that, as a result of this change, there will be a blackout period from 4:00 p.m. EST on December 20 through December 31, 2006, during which they will be prohibited from engaging in any transactions in common stock or related equity securities of the Company acquired in connection with service to or employment with the Company. The notice is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 3, 2006
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
As explained in more detail below, this prohibition is imposed by Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder by the Securities and Exchange Commission commonly referred to as Regulation BTR (Blackout Trading Restriction).
From 4:00 p.m. EST on December 20 through December 31, 2006, you will be prohibited from purchasing, selling or otherwise acquiring, transferring or exercising Northrop Grumman Corporation Common Stock or related equity securities, such as options, if you acquired such security in connection with your service to or employment with Northrop Grumman Corporation.
Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act prohibits directors and executive officers of an issuer from trading in the issuer's equity securities during any period during which employees are unable to purchase or sell issuer equity securities held in 401(k) or similar plans. This period is commonly referred to as a "blackout period." A blackout period is usually imposed for administrative reasons such as changes in plan record keepers, introduction of new investment alternatives or business combinations.
The Northrop Grumman Savings Plan (the "Plan") is changing its record keeper from Affiliated Computer Services to Hewitt Associates. As a result of this change, from 4:00 p.m. EST on December 20 through December 31, 2006, the record keepers require certain Plan activity to cease so that assets and account balances may be properly transferred. During this blackout period, Plan participants will be unable to change current investment elections, reallocate account balances, obtain loans, obtain distributions from the Plan (including hardship withdrawals), or change future contribution rates. Under these circumstances, because Northrop Grumman Corporation common stock is an investment option under the Plan, pursuant to Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, directors and executive officers are prohibited from trading in Northrop Grumman Corporation common stock or related equity securities acquired in connection with service to or employment with Northrop Grumman Corporation.
Please note the following:
 
 
 
 
 
These rules apply in addition to the trading restrictions under the Northrop Grumman Corporation's Corporate Policy A11 "Insider Trading" and Corporate Procedure A307 "Securities Trading Restrictions." If you engage in a transaction that violates these rules, you may be required to disgorge your profits from the transaction, and you may be subject to civil and criminal penalties.
Please contact John H. Mullan (310-201-3081) or Kathleen M. Salmas (310-201-3495) if you have any questions about your trading restrictions.
If you have any other questions, please feel free to contact Debbie Catsavas at 310-201-3181 or at 1840 Century Park East, Los Angeles, California 90067.
 


