FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20060425081714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On April 25, 2006, Northrop Grumman Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, under the heading "Northrop Grumman Reports First Quarter 2006 Results." The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.
 
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the Requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
Northrop Grumman Reports First Quarter 2006 Results
 
Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations of $1.02
 
Income from Continuing Operations of $357 Million
 
Contract Acquisitions a Record $12.3 Billion
 
2006 Guidance for Earnings per Share of $4.25 to $4.40 Reaffirmed
 
2006 Guidance for Cash from Operations of $2.3 to $2.6 Billion Reaffirmed
 
LOS ANGELES  Apr. 25, 2006  Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE: NOC) reported first quarter 2006 income from continuing operations of $357 million, or $1.02 per diluted share, compared with $398 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, for the same period of 2005. First quarter 2005 income from continuing operations included an after-tax gain of $45 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, from the sale of TRW Automotive common stock. First quarter 2006 sales decreased to $7.2 billion from $7.5 billion in the first quarter of 2005, due to lower sales in the company's Ships business.
 
"As expected, our first quarter includes strong operating performances from Information & Services, Aerospace and Electronics. At Ships, we continue to progress toward pre-Katrina production levels," said Ronald D. Sugar, Northrop Grumman chairman, chief executive officer and president. "Contract bookings during the quarter were a record $12.3 billion. Based on this strong start, we continue to expect double-digit growth in earnings per share and substantial cash generation in 2006."
 
The company's first quarter 2006 segment operating margin increased to $644 million from $638 million in first quarter of 2005. First quarter 2006 segment operating
 
 
 
 
margin reflects higher operating margin in Information & Services, Electronics and Aerospace, partially offset by lower operating margin in Ships.
 
Unallocated expenses for the 2006 first quarter increased to $35 million from $27 million in the same period of 2005. Operating margin was unchanged at $595 million.
 
Other income/expense for the 2006 first quarter decreased to an expense of $1 million from income of $82 million in the prior year period. First quarter 2005 included a pre-tax gain of $70 million from the sale of approximately 7.3 million shares of TRW Automotive common stock.
 
The effective tax rate applied to income from continuing operations for the 2006 first quarter was 30.9 percent compared with 33.2 percent in the 2005 first quarter.
 
Net income for the 2006 first quarter declined to $358 million, or $1.02 per diluted share, from $409 million, or $1.11 per diluted share, for the same period of 2005. First quarter 2005 net income included the $45 million after-tax gain from the TRW Automotive common stock sale and an $11 million after-tax gain from the sale of Teldix GmbH. Earnings per share are based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 350.8 million for the first quarter of 2006 and 367 million for the first quarter of 2005.
 
Contract acquisitions increased to $12.3 billion in the first quarter of 2006 from $7.8 billion for the same period of 2005. The increase includes the impact of contract acquisitions delayed from the 2005 fourth quarter by the delay in the passage of the 2006 defense budget, as well as several significant new business awards. Total backlog, which includes funded backlog and firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer, was $58 billion at Mar. 31, 2006 compared with $56.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2005.
 
Cash Measurements, Debt and Share Repurchases
 
Net cash used by operating activities in the first quarter of 2006 totaled $115 million compared with net cash provided by operating activities of $263 million in the first quarter of 2005. Capital spending totaled $173 million in the 2006 first quarter, including $54 million for Hurricane Katrina damage repair at Ships, compared with total capital spending of $197 million in the 2005 first quarter. During the 2006 first quarter, insurance recoveries related to hurricane damage, repair and restoration totaled $54 million.
 
Cash and cash equivalents declined to $373 million at Mar. 31, 2006 from $1.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2005. During the first quarter of 2006 the company reduced total debt by approximately $430 million and repurchased $787 million (including approximately 11.6 million shares under an Accelerated Share Repurchase agreement) of its common stock. Since the inception of its share repurchase programs in August of 2003, the company has retired approximately 53 million shares of its common stock for approximately $3 billion. Weighted average diluted shares outstanding declined to 350.8
 
 
million for the first quarter of 2006 compared with 367 million for the first quarter of 2005, and common shares outstanding totaled 343.3 million at Mar. 31, 2006. Under the most recent $1.5 billion share repurchase authorization announced in Oct. 2005, approximately $213 million remains. The company intends to complete the repurchase of shares under the current authorization by the end of 2006.
 
2006 Guidance
 
For 2006, the company continues to expect sales of approximately $31 billion, earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.25 to $4.40 and cash from operations of $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion.
 
Business Results
 
As was previously announced, beginning with the first quarter of 2006 the company has implemented enhancements in the reporting of its financial results. Effective Jan. 1, 2006, the company established a new reportable segment, Technical Services, to leverage existing business strengths and synergies in logistics support, sustainment and technical services. Technical Services consolidates multiple programs in logistics operations from the Electronics, Integrated Systems, Mission Systems and Information Technology segments.
 
In addition the company has categorized its seven reporting segments into four businesses. The results of the Mission Systems, Information Technology and Technical Services segments are aggregated as Information & Services. The results of the Integrated Systems and Space Technology segments are aggregated as Aerospace, and the Electronic Systems segment is now reported as Electronics. The Newport News and Ship Systems sectors continue to be reported as Ships.
 
The company has also revised its reporting of intercompany margin recognition and elimination for the company's operating segments. In order to provide a more relevant depiction of the management and performance of its businesses, operating margin for each of the company's segments will include margin on intersegment sales. Schedule 4 provides a reconciliation of the new reporting format with past financial reports. Schedule 2 provides a summary of the financial results for the four businesses and the seven reporting segments that comprise them. The operating information shown below excludes intersegment eliminations shown in Schedule 2.
 
 
Information & Services
 
 
Information & Services sales increased $34 million, or 1 percent, during the first quarter of 2006 due to higher sales in Mission Systems and Information Technology. The increase in sales at Mission Systems includes higher volume on Command, Control & Intelligence Systems programs, which was partially offset by lower volume on the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile program. Higher sales in Information Technology include higher volume on Defense, Civilian Agencies, and Intelligence programs. These increases were partially offset by lower Commercial, State & Local sales, primarily due to a $53 million sales decline in the reseller business. In the first quarter of 2006, the company announced the exit of the reseller business, which it expects to complete by the end of 2006.
 
Information & Services first quarter 2006 operating margin increased 13 percent, primarily due to improved performance in Missile Systems and Command, Control & Intelligence Systems programs in the Mission Systems segment.
 
Aerospace
 
 
First quarter 2006 Aerospace sales increased 7 percent from the first quarter of 2005 reflecting a 12 percent increase in Integrated Systems sales and slightly lower sales in Space Technology. Higher volume on the F/A-18, F-35, E-2C Advanced Hawkeye, and E-2 Post Multi-Year Procurement programs contributed to the increase in Integrated Systems revenue. Space Technology sales decreased 1 percent due to lower sales in Missile & Space Defense, Civil Space and Software Defined Radios programs, which were partially offset by higher sales in Satellite Communications programs.
 
 
Aerospace first quarter 2006 operating margin increased 5 percent from the first quarter of 2005 due to higher volume at Integrated Systems and improved performance at Space Technology.
 
Electronics
 
 
Electronics first quarter 2006 sales decreased 2 percent from the first quarter of 2005 primarily due to lower sales in Aerospace Systems and Navigation Systems. In Aerospace Systems, F-16 Block 60 program sales declined as deliveries progressed, and Navigation Systems sales were impacted by the divestiture of Teldix in 2005. These declines were partially offset by higher sales in Government Systems programs.
 
Electronics first quarter 2006 operating margin increased 9 percent from the first quarter of 2005 due to improved performance in Defensive Systems and Aerospace Systems programs.
 
Ships
 
 
Ships first quarter 2006 sales decreased 25 percent from the first quarter of 2005 due to lower volume on the DD(X) program, as well as lower volume due to hurricane-related work delays on the LPD, LHD, DDG, and Coast Guard Deepwater programs. Results for Aircraft Carrier and Submarine programs were comparable to prior year results.
 
Ships operating margin decreased 36 percent from the first quarter of 2005, and reflects lower DD(X) volume and lower volume and reduced margin rates for the LPD, LHD, DDG, and Coast Guard Deepwater programs as a result of hurricane-related cost growth and work delays.
 
First Quarter 2006 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Northrop Grumman
 
Northrop Grumman Corporation is a global defense company headquartered in Los Angeles, Calif. Northrop Grumman provides technologically advanced, innovative products, services and solutions in systems integration, defense electronics, information technology, advanced aircraft, shipbuilding and space technology. With approximately 125,000 employees and operations in all 50 states and 25 countries, Northrop Grumman serves U.S. and international military, government and commercial customers.
 
Northrop Grumman will webcast its earnings conference call at noon EDT on Apr. 25, 2006. A live audio broadcast of the conference call along with a supplemental presentation will be available on the investor relations page of the company's Web site at .
http://www.northropgrumman.com
 
Note: Certain statements and assumptions in this release contain or are based on "forward-looking" information that Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") believes to be within the definition in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties, and include, among others, statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as "project," "expect," "estimate," "assume," "believe," "plan," "guidance" or variations thereof. This information reflects the Company's best estimates when made, but the Company expressly disclaims any duty to update this information if new data become available or estimates change after the date of this release.
 
Such "forward-looking" information includes, among other things, financial guidance regarding sales, segment operating margin, pension expense, employer contributions under pension plans and medical and life benefits plans, and cash flow, and is subject to numerous assumptions and uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company's control. These include the Company's assumptions with respect to future revenues; expected program performance and cash flows; returns on pension plan assets and variability of pension actuarial and related assumptions; the outcome of litigation and appeals; hurricane recoveries; environmental remediation; divestitures of businesses; successful reduction of debt; successful negotiation of contracts with labor unions; effective tax rates and timing and amounts of tax payments; the results of any audit or appeal process with the Internal Revenue Service; and anticipated costs of capital investments, among other things.
 
The Company's operations are subject to various additional risks and uncertainties resulting from its position as a supplier, either directly or as subcontractor or team member, to the U.S. government and its agencies as well as to foreign governments and agencies; actual outcomes are dependent upon various factors, including, without limitation, the Company's successful performance of internal plans; government
 
 
customers' budgetary constraints; customer changes in short-range and long-range plans; domestic and international competition in both the defense and commercial areas; product performance; continued development and acceptance of new products and, in connection with any fixed-price development programs, controlling cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates; performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors; government import and export policies; acquisition or termination of government contracts; the outcome of political and legal processes and of the assertion or prosecution of potential substantial claims by or on behalf of a U.S. government customer; natural disasters, including recent hurricanes affecting the Company's Gulf Coast shipyards and the associated risks underlying the Company's assumptions regarding achieving expected learning-curve progress, amounts and timing of recoveries under insurance contracts, availability of materials and supplies, continuation of the supply chain, contractual performance relief and the application of cost sharing terms, impacts of timing of cash receipts and the availability of other mitigating elements; terrorist acts; legal, financial, and governmental risks related to international transactions and global needs for military aircraft, military and civilian electronic systems and support, information technology, naval vessels, space systems and related technologies, as well as other economic, political and technological risks and uncertainties and other risk factors set out in the Company's filings from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, Company reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
 
 
Members of the news media may receive our releases via e-mail by registering at:
http://www.northropgrumman.com/cgi-bin/regist_form.cgi
 
LEARN MORE ABOUT US: Northrop Grumman news releases, product information, photos and video clips are available on the Internet at:
http://www.northropgrumman.com
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
 
 
 
 
The net pension expense adjustment reflects the excess pension expense determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America over the pension expense included in the segments' cost of sales to the extent that these costs are currently recognized under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards.
SCHEDULE 3
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
 
 


