FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20071024080535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On October 24, 2007, Northrop Grumman Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, under the heading "Northrop Grumman Third Quarter 2007 Net Income Increases 62 Percent; 2007 Guidance Raised". The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)    Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
Northrop Grumman Third Quarter 2007 Net Income Increases 62 Percent;
2007 Guidance Raised
     
LOS ANGELES  Oct. 24, 2007  Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE: NOC) reported that third quarter 2007 income from continuing operations rose 59 percent to $490 million, or $1.41 per diluted share, from $308 million, or $0.88 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2006. Third quarter 2007 includes an after-tax gain of $21 million, or $0.06 per diluted share, for the reorganization of AMSEC LLC. Third quarter 2006 results included a $112.5 million pre-tax, or $0.20 per diluted share, legal provision. Sales for the 2007 third quarter increased 7 percent to $7.9 billion from $7.4 billion in the 2006 third quarter. Third quarter 2007 cash from operations increased to $1 billion from $962 million in the prior year period.
Operating Highlights*
* Operating results for all periods presented reflect the reclassification of Interconnect Technologies (formerly reported in Electronics) from continuing to discontinued operations.
 
     
"Higher sales, higher segment operating margin, and lower corporate expenses drove this quarter's EPS increase. Our four businesses performed well, expanding segment operating margin rate to more than 10 percent, led by a very strong performance at Ships. Cash from operations of more than $1 billion was a record and brought us to more than $2.1 billion year-to-date. We ended the quarter with a $64 billion total backlog, another record for the company," said Ronald D. Sugar, Northrop Grumman chairman and chief executive officer.
     
"Based on year-to-date double-digit growth in net income and EPS, we are raising guidance for 2007 earnings per share to approximately $5.10 on a sales base of approximately $31.5 billion. Our focus on performance is generating sales growth, higher margin rates, double-digit EPS growth and solid cash generation in 2007, and we are driving performance to ensure this strength continues in 2008," Sugar concluded.
     
Third quarter 2007 operating margin increased $258 million, or 47 percent, to $807 million from $549 million in the prior year period, driven by higher segment operating margin, substantially lower unallocated expense, and lower net pension adjustment. Segment operating margin increased $118 million, or 17 percent, and as a percent of sales increased 90 basis points to 10.3 percent from 9.4 percent in the prior year period. Third quarter 2007 unallocated expenses declined $107 million from the prior year period, which included a $112.5 million legal provision. Third quarter 2007 net pension adjustment declined $33 million. As a percent of sales, operating margin increased 280 basis points to 10.2 percent from 7.4 percent.
     
Federal and foreign income taxes for the 2007 third quarter increased to $241 million from $169 million in the third quarter of 2006. The effective tax rate applied to income from continuing operations for the 2007 third quarter was 33.0 percent compared with 35.4 percent in the 2006 third quarter.
     
Net income for the 2007 third quarter increased 62 percent to $489 million, or $1.41 per diluted share, from $302 million, or $0.86 per diluted share, for the same period of 2006. Earnings per share are based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 352.6 million for the third quarter of 2007 and 351 million for the third quarter of 2006. For both the three months and nine months in 2007, weighted average shares outstanding include 6.4 million shares for the dilutive effects of the company's Series B mandatorily redeemable preferred stock; the effects of these mandatorily redeemable preferred shares were not included in weighted average shares outstanding for the three and nine months in 2006 because they were not dilutive.
     
New business awards in the 2007 third quarter totaled $11.5 billion led by business awards at Aerospace and Electronics. New business awards are firm contractual additions to backlog received during the period. Funded contract acquisitions for the 2007 third quarter totaled $7.5 billion compared with $6.2 billion for the same period of 2006. Total backlog, which includes funded backlog and firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer, was $64.1 billion on Sept. 30, 2007.
 
Cash Flow Highlights
1
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure defined as cash from operations less capital expenditures and outsourcing contract & related software costs. Management uses free cash flow as an internal measure of financial performance.
     
Cash provided by operations in the 2007 third quarter totaled more than $1 billion compared with $962 million in the prior year period. The year-over-year improvement is primarily driven by higher net income, partially offset by an increase in cash income taxes paid. Third quarter 2007 capital spending totaled $133 million and included $30 million for Hurricane Katrina, compared with capital spending of $169 million in the third quarter of 2006, which included $26 million for Hurricane Katrina. Third quarter 2007 free cash flow increased to $873 million from $750 million. Year-to-date free cash flow increased to $1.6 billion from $949 million reflecting improved cash from operations and reductions in cash used in discontinued operations.
Cash Measurements, Debt and Capital Deployment
1
Total debt less cash and cash equivalents
2
Net debt divided by the sum of shareholders' equity and total debt.
     
Changes in cash and cash equivalents and total debt reflect the following cash deployment and financing actions during 2007:
 
2007 Guidance Updated
1
Segment operating margin is a non-GAAP measure used as an internal measure of financial performance for the four businesses.
2
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure defined as cash from operations less capital expenditures and outsourcing contract & related software costs. Management uses free cash flow as an internal measure of financial performance.
Business Results
Consolidated Sales & Segment Operating Margin
1
1
Segment operating margin is a non-GAAP measure used as an internal measure of financial performance for the four businesses.
2
Net pension adjustment includes pension expense determined in accordance with GAAP less pension expense allocated to the business segments under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards.
 
     As previously announced, beginning in the 2007 first quarter, Radio Systems is reported as part of Mission Systems. Operating results for all periods presented reflect the reclassification of Interconnect Technologies (formerly reported in Electronics) from continuing to discontinued operations. Schedule 6 provides previously reported quarterly financial results reflecting discontinued operations.
Information & Services
     
Information & Services third quarter 2007 sales increased $250 million, or 9 percent, from the prior year period driven by higher sales for all three reporting segments. Although sales increased, Information & Services operating margin declined by $13 million or 5 percent, and as a percent of sales declined to 7.8 percent from 8.9 percent in the prior year period.
     
Mission Systems sales increased $119 million, or 9 percent, due to the Essex Corporation acquisition, higher volume for several missile defense programs, and higher volume for several command, control & communications programs. Operating margin rose $13 million, or 10 percent, and as a percent of sales, was 9.9 percent compared with 9.8 percent in the prior year's third quarter. The increase in margin was primarily driven by higher volume, and includes improved performance for several programs, which was partially offset by an increase in amortization of purchased intangibles.
     
Information Technology sales rose $84 million, or 8 percent, largely due to higher volume for state and local programs and restricted intelligence programs. Higher volume for these programs was partially offset by lower volume for civilian agencies programs.
     
Information Technology third quarter 2007 operating margin declined $20 million, or 22 percent. As a percent of sales, operating margin declined to 6.5 percent from 9 percent principally due to lower performance for state and local IT outsourcing programs. The lower performance is due to growth in transition cost (including $22 million in increased amortization of deferred and other outsourcing costs). Third quarter operating margin also included improved performance for intelligence programs and discretionary spending for shared internal information systems infrastructure.
 
     
Technical Services sales rose $47 million, or 9 percent, primarily due to the Nevada Test Site program. Operating margin decreased $6 million, or 18 percent from the prior year period, which included performance improvements for several programs. As a percent of sales, operating margin declined to 4.9 percent from 6.5 percent in the prior year period.
Aerospace
     
Aerospace third quarter 2007 sales declined slightly from the prior year period due to lower volume in Integrated Systems, partially offset by higher volume in Space Technology. Aerospace third quarter 2007 operating margin was comparable to the prior year period, and as a percent of sales, increased to 10.2 percent from 10.1 percent.
     
Integrated Systems sales declined $62 million, or 5 percent, primarily due to lower volume for the E-2D Advanced Hawkeye, F-35 and EA-18G programs, as these programs transition from development to production, as well as significant customer-directed scope reductions associated with the E-10A platform and related MP-RTIP efforts. Lower volume in these programs was partially offset by higher volume for the F/A-18 and Global Hawk programs. Integrated Systems operating margin rose $8 million, or 6 percent, and as a percent of sales, increased to 11.6 percent from 10.4 percent in the prior year period. The operating margin increase includes performance improvements for E-2 programs, which more than offset the impact of lower sales volume.
     
Space Technology sales increased $51 million, or 7 percent, primarily due to higher volume for restricted programs and the James Webb Space Telescope. Increases in these programs were partially offset by lower volume in the Advanced Extremely High Frequency program. Space Technology operating margin decreased $7 million, or 11 percent, and as a percent of sales declined to 7.9 percent from 9.4 percent in the prior year period. Space Technology operating margin in the 2006 third quarter included several favorable performance adjustments.
 
Electronics
     
Electronics third quarter 2007 sales were slightly higher than the prior year period and include higher volume for electro-optical and infrared countermeasures programs, a restricted program and commercial products, which was partially offset by declining volume on fixed price development programs.
     
Electronics third quarter 2007 operating margin increased $13 million, or 7 percent, and as a percent of sales, increased to 12.6 percent from 11.9 percent in the prior year period. Operating margin for the 2007 third quarter includes favorable performance adjustments on several programs.
Ships
     
Ships third quarter 2007 sales rose $231 million, or 19 percent, from the prior year period. The increase primarily includes higher volume for the LPD, DDG, LHA and U.S. Coast Guard programs. Third quarter 2007 sales also include $36 million from AMSEC. AMSEC was reorganized in July 2007, and the businesses retained under the reorganization are now reported in the Ships segment.
     
Ships third quarter 2007 operating margin increased $107 million, or 141 percent, from the prior year period. As a percent of sales, operating margin rate more than doubled to 12.5 percent from 6.1 percent in the prior year period. The increase in third quarter 2007 operating margin over the prior year period reflects risk reduction upon completion of several contract actions, higher volume, performance improvements, and a $22 million pre-tax gain resulting from the AMSEC reorganization.
Third Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
About Northrop Grumman
     
Northrop Grumman Corporation is a $30 billion global defense and technology company whose 120,000 employees provide innovative systems, products, and solutions in information and services, electronics, aerospace and shipbuilding to government and commercial customers worldwide.
     
Northrop Grumman will webcast its earnings conference call at 12:30 p.m. EDT on Oct. 24, 2007. A live audio broadcast of the conference call along with a supplemental presentation will be available on the investor relations page of the company's Web site at .
http://www.northropgrumman.com
Note: Certain statements and assumptions in this release contain or are based on "forward-looking" information that Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") believes to be within the definition in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties, and include, among others, statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as "project," "expect," "estimate," "assume," "believe," "plan," "guidance" or variations thereof. This information reflects the Company's best estimates when made, but the Company expressly disclaims any duty to update this information if new data become available or estimates change after the date of this release.
Such "forward-looking" information includes, among other things, financial guidance regarding sales, segment operating margin, pension expense, employer contributions under pension plans and medical and life benefits plans, cash flow, and earnings per share, and is subject to numerous assumptions and uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company's control. These include the Company's assumptions with respect to future revenues; expected program performance and cash flows; returns on pension plan assets and variability of pension actuarial and related assumptions; the outcome of litigation, appeals and investigations; hurricane-related insurance recoveries; environmental remediation; acquisitions and divestitures of businesses; successful reduction of debt; performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors; product performance and the successful execution of internal plans; successful negotiation of contracts with labor unions; effective tax rates and timing and amounts of tax payments; the results of any audit or appeal process with the Internal Revenue Service; and anticipated costs of capital investments, among other things.
The Company's operations are subject to various additional risks and uncertainties resulting from its position as a supplier, either directly or as subcontractor or team member, to the U.S. government and its agencies as well as to foreign governments and agencies; actual outcomes are dependent upon various factors, including, without limitation, the Company's successful performance of internal plans; government customers' budgetary constraints; customer changes in short-range and long-range plans; domestic and international competition in both the defense and commercial areas; product performance; continued development and acceptance of new products and, in connection with any fixed-price development programs, controlling cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates; performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors; government import and export policies; acquisition or termination of government contracts; the outcome of political and legal processes and of the assertion or prosecution of potential substantial claims by or on behalf of a U.S. government customer; natural disasters, including amounts and timing of recoveries under insurance contracts, availability of materials and supplies, continuation of the supply chain, contractual performance relief and the application of cost sharing terms, allowability and allocability of costs under U.S. Government contracts, impacts of timing of cash receipts and the availability of other mitigating elements; terrorist acts;
 
legal, financial, and governmental risks related to international transactions and global needs for military aircraft, military and civilian electronic systems and support, information technology, naval vessels, space systems, technical services and related technologies, as well as other economic, political and technological risks and uncertainties and other risk factors set out in the Company's filings from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, Company reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
Members of the news media may receive our releases via e-mail by registering at:
http://www.northropgrumman.com/cgi-bin/regist_form.cgi
LEARN MORE ABOUT US: Northrop Grumman news releases, product information, photos and video clips are available on the Internet at:
http://www.northropgrumman.com
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
SCHEDULE 5
 
SCHEDULE 6


