FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20070724080551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On July 24, 2007, Northrop Grumman Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, under the heading "Northrop Grumman Second Quarter 2007 Net Income Increases 7 Percent." The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c)    Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Northrop Grumman Second Quarter 2007 Net Income Increases 7 Percent
     LOS ANGELES  July 24, 2007  Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE: NOC) reported that second quarter 2007 income from continuing operations rose 4 percent to $460 million, or $1.31 per diluted share, from $442 million, or $1.26 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2006. Sales for the 2007 second quarter increased 4 percent to $7.9 billion from $7.6 billion in the 2006 second quarter. Cash provided by operations for the 2007 second quarter increased to $741 million from $638 million in the prior year period.
Operating Highlights
     "Sales growth, higher segment operating margin, and lower corporate expenses drove this quarter's earnings increase. Information & Services led the sales growth with a 15 percent increase, and all four of our businesses contributed to higher segment
 
 
operating margin. Cash from operations also improved substantially," said Ronald D. Sugar, Northrop Grumman chairman and chief executive officer.
     "Year-to-date we are on track to generate higher sales, improved margin, and higher earnings. And based on year-to-date results, we expect both cash from operations and free cash flow to be in the upper end of our 2007 guidance range," Sugar concluded.
     Operating margin for the 2007 second quarter increased 9 percent to $744 million from $682 million for the 2006 second quarter. As a percent of sales, operating margin increased 40 basis points to 9.4 percent from 9 percent in the prior year period. The increase includes higher segment operating margin, lower net pension expense and higher unallocated & other expenses. Second quarter 2007 segment operating margin increased 5 percent, and as a percent of sales, was comparable to the prior year period at 9.8 percent. Second quarter 2007 net pension expense declined $40 million. Unallocated & other expenses increased to $63 million and include lower post retirement benefit expenses, which were more than offset by a $50 million increase in provisions for various legal and investigative matters. Unusual items, summarized below, had a net negative effect of $4 million to segment operating margin (approximately 5 basis points to segment operating margin rate) and a negative net effect of $54 million to operating margin (approximately 70 basis points to operating margin rate). In the 2006 second quarter unusual items had a $51 million net negative impact to segment operating margin (approximately 70 basis points to segment operating margin rate).
Unusual Items included in Q2 2007 Operating Margin ($ millions)
 
     Federal and foreign income taxes for the 2007 second quarter increased to $192 million from $147 million in the second quarter of 2006. The effective tax rate applied to income from continuing operations for the 2007 second quarter was 29.4 percent compared with 25 percent in the 2006 second quarter. In the 2007 second quarter the company reached a favorable settlement with the Internal Revenue Service regarding a portion of its audit for the years 2001 through 2003. As a result, the company recognized tax benefits totaling $16 million. In the second quarter of 2006 the company recognized
 
 
tax benefits totaling $48 million due to reversal of previously established expense provisions for audits of the B-2 program in years 1997 through 2000.
     Net income for the 2007 second quarter increased 7 percent to $460 million, or $1.31 per diluted share, from $430 million, or $1.23 per diluted share, for the same period of 2006. Earnings per share are based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 355.3 million for the second quarter of 2007 and 350.1 million for the second quarter of 2006. For both the second quarter and six months periods in 2007, weighted average shares outstanding include the dilutive impact of 6.4 million shares of the company's Series B mandatorily redeemable preferred stock.
     Funded contract acquisitions for the 2007 second quarter totaled $6.6 billion compared with $8.1 billion for the same period of 2006. Funded contract acquisitions for the 2006 second quarter included a $2.3 billion contract for the LPD program in the Ships business. Total backlog, which includes funded backlog and firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer, was $60.4 billion at June 30, 2007.
Cash Flow Highlights
 
     Cash provided by operations in the 2007 second quarter totaled $741 million compared with $638 million in the prior year period. The year-over-year improvement is primarily driven by higher net income and also includes less cash expended for discontinued operations, partially offset by an increase in cash income taxes paid. Second quarter 2007 capital spending totaled $140 million and included $31 million for Hurricane Katrina, compared with capital spending of $151 million in the second quarter of 2006, which included $42 million for Hurricane Katrina. Second quarter 2007 free cash flow increased to $551 million from $487 million. Year-to-date free cash flow increased to $763 million from $199 million reflecting improved cash from operations and reductions in cash used in discontinued operations.
 
 
Cash Measurements, Debt and Capital Deployment
 
     Cash and cash equivalents totaled $521 million at June 30, 2007 compared with $1 billion at Dec. 31, 2006, and total debt declined to $4 billion at June 30, 2007 from $4.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2006. Changes in cash and cash equivalents and total debt reflect the following cash deployment and financing actions during 2007:
2007 Guidance Updated
 
 
 
Business Results
CONSOLIDATED SALES & SEGMENT OPERATING MARGIN
1
 
     As previously announced, beginning in the 2007 first quarter, Radio Systems is reported as part of Mission Systems. Schedule 5 provides previously reported quarterly financial results and realigned results reflecting the transfer of Radio Systems.
Information & Services
 
 
     Information & Services second quarter 2007 sales increased 15 percent from the prior year period due to double-digit revenue increases for Information Technology and Technical Services. Operating margin for Information & Services rose 6 percent in the 2007 second quarter. As a percent of sales, operating margin declined to 8.7 percent from 9.5 percent in the prior year period. The increase in operating margin is due to higher volume, and the decline in operating margin rate reflects a higher percentage of lower margin state and local business for Information Technology and the impact of the lower margin Nevada Test Site program in Technical Services.
     Mission Systems sales increased nearly 10 percent due to the acquisition of Essex Corporation, higher volume for the Kinetic Energy Interceptor program, and higher volume for several command, control & communications programs. Operating margin rose 11 percent, and as a percent of sales, increased to 10.4 percent from 10.2 percent in the prior year period. The increases in operating margin and rate are due to higher volume, including the Essex acquisition, and improved program performance.
     Information Technology sales rose 17 percent due to newly commenced state and local programs, including Virginia IT and San Diego County outsourcing and New York City Wireless programs, as well as higher volume for Intelligence programs. Operating margin rose 7 percent. As a percent of sales, operating margin declined to 7.9 percent from 8.6 percent in the prior year period. The increase in operating margin and the lower rate reflect the impact of newly commenced state and local programs.
     Technical Services sales rose 28 percent due to the Nevada Test Site program. Operating margin decreased 16 percent from the prior year period, and as a percent of sales, declined to 5.8 percent from 8.8 percent in the prior year period. The comparison to prior year's results reflect favorable performance adjustments on several programs in the 2006 second quarter as well as the impact of the lower margin Nevada Test Site program.
Aerospace
     Aerospace second quarter 2007 sales declined 6 percent from the prior year period due to lower volume in Integrated Systems, partially offset by higher sales in Space Technology. Aerospace second quarter 2007 operating margin increased 8 percent from the prior year period, and as a percent of sales, increased to 10.9 percent from 9.5 percent in the prior year period.
 
 
     Integrated Systems sales declined 11 percent primarily due to lower volume for the E-2D Advanced Hawkeye, F-35 and EA-18G programs, as these programs transition from development to production, as well as lower volume for the J-UCAS program as it nears completion, and significant customer-directed scope reductions associated with the E-10A platform and related MP-RTIP efforts. Integrated Systems operating margin rose 6 percent, and as a percent of sales, increased to 12.2 percent from 10.2 percent in the prior year period. The operating margin increase includes a $27 million adjustment related to the settlement of prior years overhead costs, which more than offset the impact of lower sales volume.
     Space Technology sales increased 4 percent, primarily due to higher volume for restricted, James Webb Space Telescope, and Space Radar programs. Increases in these programs were partially offset by lower volume in the Advanced Extremely High Frequency and NPOESS programs. Space Technology operating margin increased 15 percent, and as a percent of sales increased to 9 percent from 8.1 percent, reflecting higher sales volume and improved program performance.
Electronics
     Electronics second quarter 2007 sales increased 7 percent from the prior year period principally due to higher sales for Army programs and a restricted program. These sales increases were partially offset by declining volume on fixed price development programs.
     Electronics second quarter 2007 operating margin was comparable to the prior year period, and as a percent of sales, declined to 10 percent from 10.7 percent. Operating margin for the 2007 second quarter includes pre-tax facility shutdown and closure costs of $11 million and a $27 million negative pre-tax contract earnings adjustment for the F-16 Block 60 fixed price development program, which more than offset the impact of higher sales volume. Second quarter 2006 operating margin included pre-tax negative contract earnings adjustments of $28 million for the ASPIS II program and $23 million for the MESA radar program.
 
 
Ships
     Ships second quarter 2007 sales declined 5 percent from the prior year period due to lower volume in the DDG 51 and LHD programs (due to a now-concluded labor strike at the company's Pascagoula, Miss. shipyard), lower volume for aircraft carrier and submarine programs, and lower volume for the DDG 1000 program as it transitions from development to detail design and production.
     Ships second quarter 2007 operating margin increased 4 percent from the prior year period, and as a percent of sales, increased to 9.9 percent from 9 percent in the prior year period. Second quarter 2007 operating margin includes a $62 million pre-tax insurance recovery for losses under its contracts ("lost profits") related to the impact of Hurricane Katrina on the company's Gulf Coast shipyards and improved performance for the company's LHA 6 program. These positive impacts to operating margin and rate were partially offset by a negative $55 million pre-tax contract adjustment on the LHD 8 program due to schedule extension and subsystems cost growth. Second quarter operating margin was also impacted by lower volume on the strike-impacted programs. The second quarter of 2006 included class Block II material incentives and favorable performance adjustments.
Virginia-
Second Quarter Highlights
 
 
About Northrop Grumman
     Northrop Grumman Corporation is a $30 billion global defense and technology company whose 120,000 employees provide innovative systems, products, and solutions in information and services, electronics, aerospace and shipbuilding to government and commercial customers worldwide.
 
 
     Northrop Grumman will webcast its earnings conference call at 12 p.m. EDT on July 24, 2007. A live audio broadcast of the conference call along with a supplemental presentation will be available on the investor relations page of the company's Web site at .
http://www.northropgrumman.com
Note: Certain statements and assumptions in this release contain or are based on "forward-looking" information that Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") believes to be within the definition in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties, and include, among others, statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as "project," "expect," "estimate," "assume," "believe," "plan," "guidance" or variations thereof. This information reflects the Company's best estimates when made, but the Company expressly disclaims any duty to update this information if new data become available or estimates change after the date of this release.
Such "forward-looking" information includes, among other things, financial guidance regarding sales, segment operating margin, pension expense, employer contributions under pension plans and medical and life benefits plans, cash flow, and earnings per share, and is subject to numerous assumptions and uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company's control. These include the Company's assumptions with respect to future revenues; expected program performance and cash flows; returns on pension plan assets and variability of pension actuarial and related assumptions; the outcome of litigation, appeals and investigations; hurricane-related insurance recoveries; environmental remediation; acquisitions and divestitures of businesses; successful reduction of debt; performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors; product performance and the successful execution of internal plans; successful negotiation of contracts with labor unions; effective tax rates and timing and amounts of tax payments; the results of any audit or appeal process with the Internal Revenue Service; and anticipated costs of capital investments, among other things.
The Company's operations are subject to various additional risks and uncertainties resulting from its position as a supplier, either directly or as subcontractor or team member, to the U.S. government and its agencies as well as to foreign governments and agencies; actual outcomes are dependent upon various factors, including, without limitation, the Company's successful performance of internal plans; government customers' budgetary constraints; customer changes in short-range and long-range plans; domestic and international competition in both the defense and commercial areas; product performance; continued development and acceptance of new products and, in connection with any fixed-price development programs, controlling cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates; performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors; government import and export policies; acquisition or termination of government contracts; the outcome of political and legal processes and of the assertion or prosecution of potential substantial claims by or on behalf of a U.S. government customer; natural disasters, amounts and timing of recoveries under insurance contracts, availability of materials and supplies, continuation of the supply chain, contractual performance relief and the application of cost sharing terms, allowability and allocability of costs under U.S. Government contracts, impacts of timing of cash receipts and the availability of other mitigating elements; terrorist acts; legal, financial, and governmental risks related to international transactions and global needs for military aircraft, military and civilian electronic systems and support, information technology, naval vessels, space systems, technical services and related technologies, as well as other economic, political and technological risks and uncertainties and other risk factors set out in the Company's filings from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, Company reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
Members of the news media may receive our releases via e-mail by registering at:
http://www.northropgrumman.com/cgi-bin/regist_form.cgi
LEARN MORE ABOUT US: Northrop Grumman news releases, product information, photos and video clips are available on the Internet at:
http://www.northropgrumman.com
0707-328
 
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
SCHEDULE 5
 
SCHEDULE 6


