FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20070223164059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
5.02(d) Election of Directors
(1) On February 20, 2007, Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") elected Donald E. Felsinger to its Board of Directors.
Donald E. Felsinger is chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of Sempra Energy, a position he has held since February 1, 2006. In June 2004, Mr. Felsinger became president and chief operating officer of Sempra Energy and a member of its board of directors. From 1998 through 2004, he was group president and chief executive officer of Sempra Global. Prior to the merger that formed Sempra Energy he served as president and chief operating officer of Enova Corporation, the parent company of San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E). Prior positions included president and chief executive officer of SDG&E, executive vice president of Enova Corporation, and executive vice president of SDG&E. Mr. Felsinger is a member of The Conference Board and the California Business Roundtable.
(2) There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Felsinger and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Felsinger was selected as a director.
(3) Mr. Felsinger was appointed to the Audit Committee and the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
(5) Mr. Felsinger is entitled to receive a director retainer fee of $200,000 per year, 50% of which is deferred into a stock unit account pursuant to the Company's 1993 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors. All deferrals into the stock unit account will be paid out in Company Common Stock at the conclusion of Mr. Felsinger's service on the Board of Directors. He will also be paid a $10,000 annual retainer fee for service on the Audit Committee. Both retainers will be prorated for 2007.
On February 21, 2007, the Compensation and Management Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company took the actions described below with regard to the compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers, with the exception of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and the Independent Members of the Board of Directors took the actions described below with regard to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer:
(a) Authorized base salary adjustments effective March 3, 2007 for the Named Executive Officers and approved cash bonus compensation for performance in 2006 as follows:
 
(b) Approved the 2007 goals under the 2002 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Bonus Plan"). Under the Bonus Plan, participants earn cash bonus compensation based upon their individual performance and achievement of specific performance measures. Each participant's target award is based on a percentage of base salary, and awards are paid in the year following the performance period. The 2007 measures for the Bonus Plan are based on the financial metrics of organic sales growth, operating margin, and cash from operations along with supplemental operational measures. Target percentages for the Named Executive Officers are: Dr. Sugar  130%; Mr. Bush  90%; Messrs. Seymour, O'Neill, and Terry  70%.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 23, 2007


