FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20081023145411.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     (d) 
Election of Two New Directors
     (1) On October 20, 2008, Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") elected Bruce S. Gordon and Madeleine Kleiner to its Board of Directors (the "Board").
     Bruce S. Gordon, 62, served as president and chief executive officer for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) from 2005 to 2007. He retired as president of the Retail Markets Group for Verizon Communications Inc. in 2003. Mr. Gordon currently serves as lead director of Tyco International LTD and as a director of CBS Corporation.
     Madeleine Kleiner, 57, most recently served as executive vice president and general counsel for Hilton Hotels Corporation from January 2001 until January 2008.
     (2) There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Gordon nor Ms. Kleiner and any other persons pursuant to which either Mr. Gordon or Ms. Kleiner was selected as a director.
     (3) Mr. Gordon was appointed to the Compensation Committee and the Policy Committee of the Board. Ms. Kleiner was appointed to the Audit Committee and the Governance Committee.
     (4) No information is required by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
     (5) Mr. Gordon and Ms. Kleiner are each entitled to receive a director retainer fee of $220,000 per year of which $100,000 is paid in cash and $120,000 is deferred into a stock unit account pursuant to the Company's 1993 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors and will be paid out in Company Common Stock at the conclusion of each of Mr. Gordon's and Ms. Kleiner's service. Ms. Kleiner is entitled to receive an additional $10,000 for serving on the Audit Committee. The retainer for each new director will be prorated in 2008.
     (a) 
Amendment to Bylaws
     On October 20, 2008, the Board approved an amendment to Article III, Section 3.02 of the Bylaws of the Company to increase the authorized number of directors of the Company from twelve (12) to fourteen (14).
   (d) .
Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 23, 2008
Table of Contents

Exhibit 3.2
Northorp Grumman Corporation Bylaws Amendment October 20, 2008
Section 3.02 Number
Excepts as otherwise fixed pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 of Article Fourth of the Certificate in connection with rights to elect additional directors under specific circumstances which may be granted to the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock, par value One Dollar ($1.00) per share of the Corporation ("Preferred Stock"), the Board of Directors shall consist of fourteen authorized directorships.

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Northrop Grumman Elects Bruce S. Gordon to Board of Directors
     LOS ANGELES  Oct. 20, 2008  Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE:NOC) announced today that Bruce S. Gordon has been elected to the company's board of directors.
     A photo accompanying this release is available at:
http://media.primezone.com/noc/
     Northrop Grumman's board now totals 14 members, 13 of whom are non-employee directors.
     "Bruce Gordon is a highly experienced director with a distinguished career as an executive in the telecommunications industry and as the leader of the NAACP," said Ronald D. Sugar, Northrop Grumman chairman and chief executive officer.
     Gordon completed a 35-year career in the telecommunications industry in 2003, retiring as the President of the Retail Markets Group for Verizon Communications Inc. As an employee of Bell Atlantic corporation, he served as Group President of the Enterprise Business Unit, President of Consumer Services, Vice President of Marketing and Sales, Vice President of Sales, and General Manager of Marketing for Pennsylvania & Delaware. He started with the company in 1968. Gordon later became the first business executive to head the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), and led the 500,000 member organization from 2005 to 2007. During his tenure Gordon worked to foster diversity and inclusion and to achieve greater economic equality for all Americans.
     Gordon currently serves as lead director of Tyco International LTD and as a director of CBS Corporation. He previously served on the boards of Southern Company, Office Depot, Best Foods, Infinity Broadcasting and The Bartech Group. He is a trustee of the Alvin Ailey Dance Foundation, The Barnes Foundation, UNICEF, National Underground Railroad Freedom Center, and Commission on African American Men and Boys; a member of the Executive Leadership Council; and recently chaired the Chancellor's Advisory Board on Student Motivation in the New York Public School System. He is a former trustee of Gettysburg College and Lincoln Center.
     The American Advertising Federation inducted Gordon into the Advertising Hall of Fame, the industry's most prestigious honor, in March 2007. magazine named him one of its "100 Most Influential Black Americans and Organization Leaders" in May
Ebony
 
Northrop Grumman Elects Bruce S. Gordon to Board of Directors
2006. He was ranked #6 on magazine's list of the "50 Most Powerful Black Executives" in July 2002. magazine named him executive of the year in 1998.
Fortune
Black Enterprise
     Gordon earned his bachelor of arts degree from Gettysburg College and a masters of science degree in management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as an Alfred P. Sloan Fellow.
     Northrop Grumman Corporation is a global defense and technology company whose 120,000 employees provide innovative systems, products, and solutions in information and services, electronics, aerospace and shipbuilding to government and commercial customers worldwide.

Exhibit 99.2
News release
Northrop Grumman Elects Madeleine Kleiner to Board of Directors
     LOS ANGELES  Oct. 20, 2008  Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE:NOC) announced today that Madeleine Kleiner, former executive vice president and general counsel for Hilton Hotels Corporation, has been elected to the company's board of directors.
     A photo accompanying this release is available at:
http://media.primezone.com/noc/
     Northrop Grumman's board now totals 14 members, 13 of whom are non-employee directors.
     "Madeleine Kleiner's broad-based business, legal and public affairs experience makes her an outstanding choice for our board," said Ronald D. Sugar, Northrop Grumman chairman and chief executive officer.
     In her role at Hilton, Kleiner was responsible for overseeing the company's legal affairs and the ethics, privacy and government affairs functions, and was a member of the executive committee, with significant responsibility for board of directors matters. She left Hilton in Feb. 2008 after completing her responsibilities in connection with the sale of the company.
     Previously, she served as senior executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel of H.F. Ahmanson & Company and its subsidiary, Home Savings of America. She was responsible for overseeing the legal department, as well as human resources, legislative and government affairs and corporate communications.
     Kleiner previously was a partner at the Los Angeles-based law firm of Gibson, Dunn and Crutcher, where she practiced corporate law, representing clients in mergers and acquisitions, as well as securities transactions and general corporate matters, including advising boards of directors in connection with such matters.
     From 1999 through 2001 she served as a director of a number of Merrill Lynch mutual funds operating under the Hotchkiss and Wiley name.
     Kleiner served as vice chair of the Client Relations Committee of the Los Angeles County Bar Association and Assistant Secretary to the Performing Arts Council of the Los Angeles Music Center and on the Board of Directors of Public Counsel, including serving as Chairman of the Board. Kleiner is a member of the UCLA Medical Center Board of Advisors and a member of the boards of the New Village Charter School and
 
Northrop Grumman Elects Madeleine Kleiner to Board of Directors
serving as Chairman of the Board. Kleiner is a member of the UCLA Medical Center Board of Advisors and a member of the boards of the New Village Charter School and the Women's Foundation of California. In 2003, Kleiner was named ACCA-SoCal Pro Bono Corporate Counsel of the year and received the Corporate Legal Times/LexisNexis Distinguished Legal Service Award. In 2004, LACBA selected her as the Corporate Counsel of the year and presented her with the Outstanding Corporate Counsel Award. In 2006, she was presented with the Constitutional Rights Foundation Bill of Rights Award, and in 2007 she received the Anthony G. Marshall Award recognizing pioneering and contribution in the field of hospitality law.
     Kleiner earned her bachelor's degree from Cornell University and her Juris Doctorate from Yale Law School. Upon graduation, she served as a law clerk to the Honorable William P. Gray, U.S. District Court for the Central District of California.
     Northrop Grumman Corporation is a global defense and technology company whose 120,000 employees provide innovative systems, products, and solutions in information and services, electronics, aerospace and shipbuilding to government and commercial customers worldwide.


