FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20090203080143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On February 3, 2009, Northrop Grumman Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008, under the heading "Northrop Grumman Reports Fourth Quarter and 2008 Results". The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)    Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99
Northrop Grumman Reports Fourth Quarter and 2008 Results
     
LOS ANGELES  Feb. 3, 2009  Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE: NOC) reported a fourth quarter loss from continuing operations of $2.5 billion and a 2008 loss from continuing operations of $1.3 billion driven by a non-cash, after-tax charge of $3.1 billion for impairment of goodwill in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
     
Fourth quarter 2008 sales increased 4 percent to $9.2 billion from $8.8 billion in the 2007 fourth quarter. 2008 sales increased 6 percent to $33.9 billion from $31.8 billion in 2007. Cash from operations for the 2008 fourth quarter increased to $1 billion from $734 million in the 2007 fourth quarter, and cash from operations for the year increased to a record $3.2 billion from $2.9 billion in 2007. Cash from operations, for both the fourth quarter and total year, was reduced by discretionary pension pre-funding of $200 million in both 2008 and 2007.
     
"Our underlying fourth quarter operating results were outstanding and represent a strong finish to the year. We begin 2009 with a $78 billion dollar backlog, the highest in Northrop Grumman's history, and a tribute to the dedication and talent of our 120,000
 
employees," said Ronald D. Sugar, Northrop Grumman chairman and chief executive officer.
     
"Looking ahead, we continue to position our organization to be more agile and competitive. Our priorities are flawless execution for our customers and superior returns for our shareholders through the generation of outstanding cash flow and solid growth in pension-adjusted earnings," Sugar concluded.
     
Fourth quarter 2008 adjusted earnings from continuing operations increased 15 percent to $524 million, or $1.57 per diluted share, from $457 million, or $1.32 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2007. For 2008, earnings from continuing operations before the goodwill impairment charge was comparable to the prior year period at $1.8 billion, or $5.21 per diluted share in 2008, compared with $5.18 per diluted share in 2007.
Operating Highlights
 
Operating Highlights  Adjusted for Goodwill Impairment
See Schedules 7 and 8 for reconciliation of average diluted share amounts.
1
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure defined as cash from operations less capital expenditures and outsourcing contract & related software costs. Management uses free cash flow as an internal measure of financial performance. Free cash flow is reconciled to cash from operations in the "Cash Flow Highlights" table presented later in this press release.
2
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure defined as operating income (loss) before the $3.060 billion 2008 goodwill impairment charge. Adjusted earnings from continuing operations is a non-GAAP measure defined as earnings (loss) from continuing operations before the $3.060 billion goodwill impairment charge. Both measures have been provided for consistency and comparability of the 2008 results with results of operations from prior periods.
3
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations is a non-GAAP measure defined as diluted EPS from continuing operations before the per share 2008 goodwill impairment charge impact. Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations has been provided for consistency and comparability of the 2008 results with results of operations from prior periods and is reconciled in Schedule 7.
4
Adjusted Fourth Quarter and 2008 Financial Results
     
Fourth quarter adjusted operating income increased 20 percent to $908 million from $759 million, and as a percent of sales increased 120 basis points to 9.9 percent from 8.7 percent primarily due to higher segment operating income and lower net pension adjustment and lower unallocated expenses. Before the goodwill impairment charge, the four businesses combined to generate a $96 million, or 12 percent, increase in segment operating income. As a percent of sales, operating performance improved 70 basis points to 9.9 percent from 9.2 percent. Net pension adjustment improved by $36 million and unallocated expenses improved by $12 million.
     
For 2008, adjusted operating income declined to $2.9 billion from $3.0 billion, and as a percent of sales totaled 8.7 percent compared with 9.5 percent. The decline
 
reflects lower Shipbuilding margin driven by the net impact of the LHD-8 related Shipbuilding charge during the year, largely offset by higher operating income for Aerospace and Electronics, and lower net pension adjustment and lower unallocated expense. Net pension adjustment and unallocated expenses improved by $136 million and $47 million, respectively.
     
Fourth quarter 2008 other expense totaled $34 million compared with other income of $21 million. The decline in other income reflects negative mark-to-market adjustments on investments in marketable securities used as a funding source for non-qualified employee benefits. For 2008, other income increased $22 million, to $38 million, primarily due to $59 million in patent infringement settlements at Electronics in 2008, partially offset by the fourth quarter mark-to-market adjustments on investments.
     
Federal and foreign income taxes for the 2008 fourth quarter totaled $278 million compared with $243 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The effective tax rate applied to adjusted earnings from continuing operations for the 2008 fourth quarter was 34.7 percent, unchanged from the effective tax rate for the 2007 fourth quarter. For 2008 federal and foreign income taxes totaled $913 million compared with $887 million for 2007. The effective tax rate applied to 2008 adjusted earnings from continuing operations was 33.9 percent compared with 32.9 percent in 2007.
     
The company's net loss for the fourth quarter and 2008 totaled $2.5 billion and $1.3 billion respectively. Fourth quarter adjusted net earnings totaled $527 million or $1.58 per diluted share, compared with net earnings of $454 million, $1.31 per diluted share, for the same period of 2007. Adjusted earnings per share are based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 333.6 million for the fourth quarter of 2008 and 351.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2007.
     
For 2008, adjusted net earnings were comparable to the prior year period at $1.8 billion, and on a per share basis increased 3 percent to $5.26 per diluted share from $5.12 per diluted share. Adjusted earnings per share are based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 341.6 million for 2008 and 354.3 million for 2007. Weighted average shares outstanding for 2008 include 1 million shares for the dilutive effects of the company's Series B mandatorily redeemable preferred stock. Weighted average shares outstanding for 2007 include 6.4 million shares for the dilutive effects of the company's Series B mandatorily redeemable preferred stock. These shares were redeemed or converted to common shares on or before April 4, 2008.
Record Backlog and New Business Awards
     
Total backlog, which includes funded backlog and firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer, was $78 billion on Dec. 31, 2008, compared with $63.7 billion on Dec. 31, 2007. The Shipbuilding, Space Technology, Integrated Systems and Electronics segments ended 2008 with substantially higher backlogs. New business awards for 2008 totaled $48.3 billion and included nearly $15 billion for Shipbuilding programs as well as substantial restricted awards. In
 
addition, in the fourth quarter the company reduced total backlog by $1.5 billion to reflect the termination of the U.S. Air Force aerial refueling tanker program.
2009 Guidance
Segment operating margin % is a non-GAAP measure defined as operating income before unallocated expenses, net pension adjustment and reversal of royalty income, divided by sales. Management uses segment operating margin % as an internal measure of financial performance.
1
Pension-adjusted operating margin % is a non-GAAP measure defined as operating income before net pension adjustment. Net pension adjustment is a non-GAAP measure defined as pension expense determined in accordance with GAAP less pension expense allocated to the business segments under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards. Management uses pension-adjusted operating margin % as an internal measure of the financial performance of the company.
2
Pension-adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations is a non-GAAP measure defined as diluted EPS from continuing operations available to common shareholders excluding net pension adjustment, after-tax. Management uses pension-adjusted EPS as a performance metric for operating results.
3
Before discretionary pre-funding of pension funds.
4
     
Guidance for 2009 includes the GAAP measures of sales, operating margin, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, and cash from operations. In addition the company provides guidance for the non-GAAP measures of segment operating margin percent, pension-adjusted operating margin percent, pension-adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, and free cash flow. Management uses these non-GAAP measures as internal measures of performance and believes they provide valuable information regarding the consolidated performance of the company's businesses.
Pension Update
     
Due to adverse capital market conditions the company's pension plan assets experienced a negative return of approximately 16 percent in 2008 compared with a long-term estimated rate of return of 8.5 percent. As a result of plan returns, the company
 
estimates that its 2009 net pension adjustment will be a pre-tax expense of approximately $335 million (approximately $0.65 on a per share diluted basis), compared with income of $263 million for 2008 net pension adjustment. The 2009 estimate is based on a 6.25 percent discount rate and a long-term rate of return of 8.5 percent.
Goodwill Impairment Charge
     
Northrop Grumman reported fourth quarter and 2008 operating losses due to a non-cash, after-tax charge of $3.1 billion for impairment of goodwill. Testing of goodwill as of Nov. 30, 2008, using discounted cash flow analysis supported by comparative market multiples to determine the fair values, indicated that the book values of Shipbuilding and Space Technology were impaired. To reflect the goodwill impairment, operating income for Shipbuilding was reduced by $2.5 billion and operating income for Space Technology was reduced by $570 million.
     
The goodwill impairment charges for these businesses are primarily driven by adverse equity market conditions that caused a decrease in current market multiples and the company's stock price as of Nov. 30, 2008. The charge reduces goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions made in 2001 and 2002 and does not impact the company's normal business operations.
Cash Flow Highlights
     
Cash provided by operations for both fourth quarter and total year improved by $303 million and $321 million, respectively, primarily due to strong fourth quarter cash collections that resulted in improved working capital. Fourth quarter and full year cash from operations were reduced by discretionary pension pre-funding of $200 million in 2008 and 2007.
 
Cash, Debt and Capital Deployment
Total debt less cash and cash equivalents.
1
Net debt divided by the sum of shareholders' equity and total debt.
2
     
Changes in cash and cash equivalents and total debt reflect the following cash deployment and financing actions during 2008:
 
Segment Operating Results
     
Beginning with 2008 second quarter results, the company transferred certain missile systems programs from Mission Systems to Space Technology. Schedule 6 provides previously reported quarterly financial results and the adjustments for first and second quarter 2008 realignments and the second quarter 2008 sale of Electro-Optical Systems.
Consolidated Sales & Segment Operating Income (Loss)
Segment operating income is a non-GAAP measure defined as operating income before unallocated expenses, net pension adjustment and reversal of royalty income and is reconciled above. Management uses segment operating income as an internal measure of financial performance.
1
 
Segment Operating Results Adjusted for Goodwill Impairment
     
Fourth quarter and 2008 operating income for Shipbuilding and Aerospace were dramatically reduced by the goodwill impairment charges recorded in the fourth quarter. Segment operating income and its trends adjusted for the goodwill impairment impacts are detailed below.
Consolidated Adjusted Segment Operating Income
Adjusted segment operating income is a non-GAAP measure defined as operating income before goodwill impairment charge, unallocated expenses, net pension adjustment and reversal of royalty income. Adjusted segment operating income has been provided for consistency and comparability of the 2008 results with results of operations from prior periods and is reconciled above. Reconciliations of Aerospace and Shipbuilding adjusted operating income to operating income are provided in tables presented later in this release.
1
Information & Services
     
Information & Services fourth quarter 2008 sales increased 5 percent and 2008 sales increased 6 percent. Sales increases for both the quarter and year are due to higher sales for Mission Systems and Technical Services. Information & Services fourth
 
quarter operating income declined 3 percent from the prior year period, and as a percent of sales declined to 7.4 percent from 8.1 percent. The decline from the 2007 fourth quarter is primarily due to lower operating income for Mission Systems. For 2008, operating income declined 2 percent, reflecting lower operating income for Information Technology. As a percent of sales, 2008 operating income declined to 7.5 percent from 8.2 percent primarily due to lower margin rates for Mission Systems and Information Technology.
     
Mission Systems fourth quarter and 2008 sales increased 11 percent. Higher sales for both the fourth quarter and 2008 are due to higher volume for intelligence, surveillance & reconnaissance programs and command, control & communication programs. Fourth quarter operating income declined 14 percent and 230 basis points as a percent of sales. For the fourth quarter, operating income from higher sales was offset by final allocation of current and prior year overhead items and higher planned internal investment for a new business opportunity. For 2008, operating income was unchanged from the prior year period and as a percent of sales declined to 9 percent from 10 percent, reflecting lower performance for command, control & communications programs, including higher planned internal investment, and final allocations described above.
     
Information Technology fourth quarter sales declined 5 percent and include higher volume for intelligence programs, which was offset by lower sales volume for commercial, state & local, defense, and civilian agencies programs. Sales for 2008 were comparable to the prior year period and include higher volume for intelligence, defense and civilian agencies programs offset by lower volume for commercial, state & local programs.
     
Information Technology fourth quarter 2008 operating income increased 20 percent, and as a percent of sales improved to 8.6 percent from 6.8 percent. The improvement in rate is due to final allocation of current and prior year overhead items and improved performance for several defense programs, including NETCENTS. For 2008, operating income declined 7 percent, and as a percent of sales declined to 6.8 percent from 7.3 percent. The declines in 2008 operating income and margin rate are principally due to performance on commercial, state & local programs, including a $57 million negative performance adjustment for the New York City Wireless program.
     
Technical Services fourth quarter sales rose 15 percent, and 2008 sales rose 5 percent. Sales increases for both periods include higher volume for life cycle optimization and engineering programs and training and simulation programs.
     
Technical Services fourth quarter operating income declined by $4 million, and as a percent of sales, declined to 4.6 percent from 6 percent in the prior year period. Higher operating income due to increased volume was offset by a higher level of planned internal investment and final allocation of current and prior year overhead items than in the prior year period. For 2008, operating income increased as a result of higher volume and as a percent of sales is comparable to the prior year.
 
Aerospace
     
Aerospace fourth quarter 2008 sales increased 6 percent, and include higher volume for Integrated Systems and comparable sales for Space Technology. For 2008, sales increased 6 percent and include higher volume for both Integrated Systems and Space Technology.
     
Fourth quarter and 2008 operating income for Aerospace includes a goodwill impairment charge of $570 million resulting from annual impairment testing required by SFAS 142. Adjusted Aerospace fourth quarter 2008 operating income increased 18 percent, and as a percent of sales increased to 10.3 percent from 9.2 percent, reflecting improved program performance for both Integrated Systems and Space Technology. For 2008, adjusted operating income increased 7 percent, and as a percent of sales was unchanged at 10 percent.
     
Integrated Systems fourth quarter sales increased 12 percent primarily due to higher volume for BAMS, F-35, UCAS-D, and restricted programs. Sales for 2008 increased by 9 percent and include higher volume for UCAS-D, Global Hawk, B-2, Joint STARS, BAMS, and restricted programs.
 
     
Integrated Systems fourth quarter operating income rose 14 percent, and as a percent of sales, increased to 10.7 percent from 10.5 percent. Higher fourth quarter operating income is principally due to higher volume than in the prior year period. Operating income for 2008 increased 4 percent, and as a percent of sales declined to 11.1 percent from 11.7 percent. The higher margin rate in 2007 includes the impact of a $27 million positive adjustment related to the settlement of prior year overhead costs.
     
Space Technology fourth quarter sales were comparable to the prior year period, and 2008 sales increased 4 percent. Higher 2008 sales are primarily attributable to higher volume for restricted and civil systems programs, which more than offset lower volume in the military systems programs, primarily the Advanced Extremely High Frequency program.
     
Fourth quarter and 2008 operating income for Space Technology includes a goodwill impairment charge of $570 million resulting from annual impairment testing required by SFAS 142. Space Technology fourth quarter adjusted operating income increased 25 percent, and as a percent of sales increased to 9.8 percent from 7.8 percent. The higher margin rate on comparable sales reflects performance improvements for missile systems and restricted programs as a result of risk retirement. Adjusted operating income for 2008 increased 14 percent and as a percent of sales increased to 8.6 percent from 7.9 percent. The improvement in 2008 operating income and margin rate reflects higher volume and improved performance for several programs as a result of risk retirement.
Electronics
     
Electronics fourth quarter 2008 sales increased 14 percent. The fourth quarter sales improvement was primarily driven by increased deliveries for restricted programs, infrared countermeasures programs and commercial marine products, as well as higher volume for the COBRA Judy, Multi-role Electronically Scanned Array (MESA) Korea, and EA-18 programs. Sales for 2008 increased 9 percent primarily due to higher deliveries of electronics for the F-16 international radar kit programs and the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) program, as well as higher volume for the MESA Korea, VIS, Ground / Air Task Oriented Radar (G/ATOR) and inertial navigation programs.
 
     
Electronics fourth quarter 2008 operating income increased 25 percent, and as a percent of sales, increased to 13.5 percent from 12.3 percent. The fourth quarter increases in operating income and margin rate are primarily attributable to higher sales volume and improved performance. In addition, fourth quarter 2007 operating income was reduced by an $18 million provision for a legal matter that has subsequently been settled. Operating income for 2008 increased 17 percent, and as a percent of sales increased to 13.4 percent from 12.5 percent in 2007. The improvement in 2008 operating income reflects higher volume as well as $59 million of patent infringement settlements.
Shipbuilding
     
Shipbuilding fourth quarter 2008 sales declined 3 percent. The decrease in fourth quarter reflects lower volume for the LPD and U.S. Coast Guard National Security Cutter program as well as lower service sales. Sales for 2008 increased 6 percent primarily due to higher volume for aircraft carrier programs, including the (CVN 78) and the USS programs, and the addition of AMSEC.
Gerald R. Ford
Enterprise
     
Fourth quarter and 2008 operating income for Shipbuilding includes a goodwill impairment charge of $2.5 billion resulting from annual impairment testing required by SFAS 142. Shipbuilding fourth quarter 2008 adjusted operating income increased 11 percent, and as a percent of sales increased to 9 percent from 7.9 percent. The increase in fourth quarter 2008 adjusted operating income and margin rate is due to risk retirement on the LHD-8 program, which more than offset the impact of lower revenue and cost growth on the USS .
George H. W. Bush
     
For 2008, adjusted operating income declined by 66 percent due to a $326 million pre-tax charge in first quarter of 2008 primarily for cost growth and schedule extension in the company's LHD-8 amphibious assault ship program. The LHD-8 program achieved several important milestones toward its planned delivery date, and as a result $63 million of the first quarter 2008 charge was reversed.
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
About Northrop Grumman
     
Northrop Grumman Corporation is a leading global security company whose 120,000 employees provide innovative systems, products, and solutions in aerospace, electronics, information systems, shipbuilding and technical services to government and commercial customers worldwide.
     
Northrop Grumman will webcast its earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. EST on Feb. 3, 2009. A live audio broadcast of the conference call along with a supplemental presentation will be available on the investor relations page of the company's Web site at
http://www.northropgrumman.com.
Note: Certain statements and assumptions in this release contain or are based on "forward-looking" information that Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") believes to be within the definition in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties, and include, among others, statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as "preliminary," "project," "expect," "estimate," "assume," "believe," "plan," "forecast," "intend," "anticipate," "guidance," "outlook," "trends," "target" or variations thereof. This information reflects the Company's best estimates when made, but the Company expressly disclaims any duty to update this information if new data become available or estimates change after the date of this release.
 
Such "forward-looking" information includes, among other things, financial guidance regarding sales, segment operating income, pension expense, employer contributions under pension plans and medical and life benefits plans, cash flow, and earnings per share, and is subject to numerous assumptions and uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company's control. These include the Company's assumptions with respect to the impact of domestic and global economic uncertainties on financial markets, access to capital, value of goodwill and other long-lived assets; changes in government spending; future revenues; expected program performance and cash flows; returns on pension plan assets and variability of pension actuarial and related assumptions and regulatory requirements; the outcome of litigation, claims, appeals, bid protests, and investigations; hurricane-related insurance recoveries; environmental remediation; acquisitions and divestitures of businesses; joint ventures and other business arrangements; performance issues with, and financial viability of, key suppliers and subcontractors; product performance and the successful execution of internal plans; successful negotiation of contracts with labor unions; allowability and allocability of costs under U.S. Government contracts; effective tax rates and timing and amounts of tax payments; the results of any audit or appeal process with the Internal Revenue Service; the availability and retention of skilled labor; and anticipated costs of capital investments, among other things.
The Company's operations are subject to various additional risks and uncertainties resulting from its position as a supplier, either directly or as subcontractor or team member, to the U.S. government and its agencies as well as to foreign governments and agencies; actual outcomes are dependent upon various factors, including, without limitation, the Company's successful performance of internal plans; government customers' budgetary constraints; customer changes in short-range and long-range plans; domestic and international competition in both the defense and commercial areas; technical, operational or quality setbacks that could adversely affect the profitability or cash flow of the Company; product performance; continued development and acceptance of new products and, in connection with any fixed-price development programs, controlling cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates; performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors; government import and export policies; acquisition or termination of government contracts; the outcome of political and legal processes and of the assertion or prosecution of potential substantial claims by or on behalf of a U.S. government customer; natural disasters, including amounts and timing of recoveries under insurance contracts, availability of materials and supplies, continuation of the supply chain, contractual performance relief and the application of cost sharing terms, allowability and allocability of costs under U.S. Government contracts, impacts of timing of cash receipts and the availability of other mitigating elements; terrorist acts; legal, financial and governmental risks related to international transactions and global needs for military aircraft, military and civilian electronic systems and support, information technology, naval vessels, space systems, technical services and related technologies, as well as other economic, political and technological risks and uncertainties and other risk factors set out in the Company's filings from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, Company reports on Form 10-K as updated by Form 8-K filed on July 29, 2008 and Form 10-Q. This release and its attachments also contain non-GAAP financial measures and include a GAAP reconciliation of the Company's use of these financial measures.
LEARN MORE ABOUT US: Northrop Grumman news releases, product information, photos and video clips are available on the Internet at:
http://www.northropgrumman.com
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
SCHEDULE 5
CONTRACT AWARDS
The value of new contract awards during the year ended December 31, 2008, was approximately $48.3 billion. Significant new awards during this period include $5.6 billion for the VCS Block III Submarine programs, $5.1 billion for the CVN 78 aircraft carrier, $1.4 billion for the DDG 1000 -class destroyer, $1.2 billion for the Broad Area Maritime Surveillance (BAMS) Unmanned Aircraft System program, $402 million for the Vehicular Intercommunications Systems IDIQ, $385 million for the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) program, and various restricted programs.
Gerald R. Ford
Zumwalt
On February 29, 2008, the company won a $1.5 billion contract awarded by the U.S. Air Force as an initial step to replace its aerial refueling tanker fleet. The losing bidder for the contract protested the award decision by the U.S. Air Force. In the fourth quarter the company reduced total backlog by $1.5 billion to reflect the termination of the U.S. Air Force aerial refueling tanker program.
The value of new contract awards during the year ended December 31, 2007, was approximately $35.1 billion. Significant new awards during this period include $2.4 billion for National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System, $2.2 billion for LHA-6, $1 billion for LPD-25, $875 million for the Flats Sequencing Systems/ Postal Automation program, $636 million for the Unmanned Combat Air System Carrier Demonstration, $628 million for the DDG 1000 -class destroyer program, $607 million for the ICBM program, $272 million for the Joint National Integration Center Research & Development program, $234 million for the F-22 program, and various restricted programs.
Zumwalt
 
SCHEDULE 6
 
 
SCHEDULE 7
 
 
SCHEDULE 8
 


