FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20091008152620.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
o
 
 
Table of Contents
     (e) Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") entered into a new change-in-control agreement with Wesley G. Bush, President and Chief Operating Officer, on October 2, 2009, in the form of the January 2010 Special Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1. The January 2010 Special Agreement is effective January 1, 2010 and supersedes and replaces the January 2009 Special Agreement between the Company and Mr. Bush, and eliminates the tax gross-up provided under the January 2009 Special Agreement.
     (d) Exhibits.
     Exhibit 10.1      Form of Northrop Grumman Corporation January 2010 Special Agreement
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 10.1
          is made and entered into by and between Northrop Grumman Corporation, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") and (hereinafter referred to as the "Executive").
THIS AGREEMENT
                    
                    
          The Board of Directors of the Company has approved the Company entering into a severance agreement with the Executive.
          The Executive is a key executive of the Company.
          Should the possibility of a Change in Control of the Company arise, the Board believes it imperative that the Company and the Board should be able to rely upon the Executive to continue in his or her position, and that the Company should be able to receive and rely upon the Executive's advice, if requested, as to the best interests of the Company and its stockholders without concern that the Executive might be distracted by the personal uncertainties and risks created by the possibility of a Change in Control.
          Should the possibility of a Change in Control arise, in addition to his or her regular duties, the Executive may be called upon to assist in the assessment of such possible Change in Control, advise management and the Board as to whether such Change in Control would be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders, and to take such other actions as the Board might determine to be appropriate.
          , to assure the Company that it will have the continued dedication of the Executive and the availability of his or her advice and counsel notwithstanding the possibility, threat, or occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company, and to induce the Executive to remain in the employ of the Company in the face of these circumstances and for other good and valuable consideration, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
Article 1.     Term
          This Agreement shall be effective as of January 1, 2010 (the "Effective Date"). This Agreement will continue in effect through December 31, 2010. However, at the end of such initial term and, if extended, at the end of each additional year thereafter, the term of this Agreement shall be extended automatically for one (1) additional year, unless the Committee delivers written notice at least six (6) months prior to the end of such term, or extended term, to the Executive that this Agreement will not be extended (a "Non-Renewal Notice"), and if such notice is timely given this Agreement will terminate at the end of the term then in progress; provided, however, that (i) this provision for automatic extension shall have no application following a Change in Control of the Company and (ii) a Non-Renewal Notice shall not be effective if delivered during the Protected Period corresponding to a Change in Control of the
 
Company. Delivery of a Non-Renewal Notice shall not constitute a repudiation or breach of this Agreement and shall not trigger the Executive's right to benefits hereunder.
           However, in the event a Change in Control occurs during the initial or any extended term, this Agreement will remain in effect for the longer of: (i) twenty-four (24) months beyond the month in which such Change in Control occurred; or (ii) until all obligations of the Company hereunder have been fulfilled, and until all benefits required hereunder have been paid to the Executive. Any subsequent Change in Control ("Subsequent Change in Control") that occurs during the original or any extended term shall also continue the term of this Agreement until the later of: (i) twenty-four (24) months beyond the month in which such Subsequent Change in Control occurred; or (ii) until all obligations of the Company hereunder have been fulfilled, and until all benefits required hereunder have been paid to the Executive; provided, however, that if a Subsequent Change in Control occurs, it shall only be considered a Change in Control under this Agreement if it occurs no later than twenty-four (24) months after the immediately preceding Change in Control or Subsequent Change in Control.
          This Agreement supersedes any prior Special Agreement between the Company and the Executive in its entirety.
Article 2.     ERISA
          This Agreement is intended as part of a severance program of the Company that constitutes (i) a pension plan within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA, and (ii) an unfunded pension plan maintained by the Company for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of Department of Labor Regulation 2520.104-23 promulgated under ERISA, and Sections 201, 301, and 401 of ERISA.
Article 3.     Definitions
          Whenever used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:
 
 
 
 
 
The Executive's right to terminate employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness. The
 
Article 4.     Severance Benefits
               . The Executive shall be entitled to receive from the Company Severance Benefits, as described in Section 4.4, if the Executive has incurred a Qualifying Termination.
4.1.
Right to Severance Benefits
          The Executive shall not be entitled to receive Severance Benefits if his or her employment terminates (regardless of the reason) before the Protected Period (as such term is defined in Section 4.3(b)) corresponding to a Change in Control of the Company or more than twenty-four (24) months after the date of a Change in Control of the Company.
               . In the event a Person begins a tender or exchange offer, circulates a proxy to stockholders of the Company, or takes other steps seeking to effect a Change in Control, the Executive agrees that he or she will not voluntarily leave the employ of the Company and will continue to render services until the later of (i) the date such Person has abandoned or terminated his or her or its efforts to effect a Change in Control, and (ii) the date that is six (6) months after a Change in Control has occurred. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may terminate the Executive's employment for Cause at any time, and
4.2.
Services During Certain Events
 
the Executive may terminate his or her employment at any time after the Change in Control for Good Reason.
 
             . In the event that the Executive becomes entitled to receive Severance Benefits, as provided in Sections 4.1 and 4.3, the Company shall pay to the Executive and provide him or her with the following:
4.4.
 Description of Severance Benefits
 
 
 
 
             . Termination of the Executive's employment due to Disability is not a Qualifying Termination. However, if immediately prior to the condition or event leading to, or the commencement of, the Disability of the Executive, the Executive would have experienced a Qualifying Termination if he or she had terminated at that time, then upon termination of his or her employment for Disability he or she shall be entitled to the benefits provided by this Agreement for a Qualifying Termination.
4.5.
Termination for Total and Permanent Disability
             . Termination of the Executive's employment due to death or retirement is not a Qualifying Termination. However, if immediately prior to the Executive's retirement (but not death), the Executive would have experienced a Qualifying Termination if he or she had terminated at that time, then upon his or her retirement he or she shall (subject to Section 4.3(c)) be entitled to the benefits provided by this Agreement for a Qualifying Termination.
4.6.
Termination for Retirement or Death
             Termination of the Executive's employment by the Company for Cause or by the Executive other than for Good Reason does not constitute a Qualifying Termination.
4.7.
Termination for Cause or by the Executive Other Than for Good Reason
             . Any termination by the Company for Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason shall be communicated by a Notice of Termination. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" shall mean a written notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated.
4.8.
Notice of Termination
 
     
Article 5.
Form and Timing of Severance Benefits; Tax Withholding; Funding of Rabbi Trust
               . The Severance Benefits described in Section 4.4(a), 4.4(b), and 4.4(e) shall be paid in cash to the Executive in a single lump sum as soon as practicable following the Executive's Separation from Service, but in no event beyond thirty (30) days from such date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Executive is a Key Employee, the lump sum payment shall be made on or within thirty (30) days after the first day of the seventh month following the Executive's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the first day of the month after the Executive's death). The Severance Benefit described in Section 4.4(c) shall be paid in a single lump sum in the year following the year in which the Executive's Separation from Service occurs; provided that if the Executive is a Key Employee, such payment shall be made no earlier than six months after the Executive's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the date of the Executive's death).
5.1.
Form and Timing of Severance Benefits
               . The Company shall be entitled to withhold from any amounts payable under or pursuant to this Agreement all taxes as legally shall be required (including, without limitation, any United States Federal taxes, and any other state, city, or local taxes).
5.2.
Withholding of Taxes
               . To the extent the Company is obligated to make a contribution to any rabbi trust, pursuant to the express terms of such trust, upon or with respect to a Protected Period or the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Company shall make such required contribution in accordance with the terms of such trust.
5.3.
Funding of Rabbi Trust
Article 6.      Excise Tax Limitation
          Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, if upon or following a Change in Control, the tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or any similar or successor tax (the "Excise Tax") applies, solely because of the Change in Control, to any payments, benefits and/or amounts received by the Executive as Severance Benefits or otherwise, including, without limitation, any fees, costs and expenses paid under Article 9 of this Agreement and/or any amounts received or deemed received, within the meaning of any provision of the Code, by the Executive as a result of (and not by way of limitation) any automatic vesting, lapse of restrictions and/or accelerated target or performance achievement provisions, or otherwise, applicable to outstanding grants or awards to the Executive under any of the Company's incentive plans, including without limitation, the 2001 Long-Term Incentive Stock Plan and the 1993 Long Term Incentive Stock Plan (collectively, the "Total Payments"), then the Total Payments shall be reduced (but not below zero) so that the maximum amount of the Total Payments (after reduction) shall be one dollar ($1.00) less than the amount which would cause the Total Payments to be subject to the Excise Tax; provided that such reduction to the Total Payments shall be made only if the total after-tax benefit to the Executive is greater after giving effect to such reduction than if no such reduction had been made. If such a reduction is required, the Company shall reduce or eliminate the Total Payments by first reducing or eliminating any cash severance benefits, then by reducing or eliminating any accelerated vesting of stock options, then by reducing or eliminating any accelerated vesting of other equity awards, then by reducing or eliminating any other remaining Total Payments, in each case in reverse
 
order beginning with the payments which are to be paid the farthest in time from the Change in Control. The preceding provisions of this Article 6 shall take precedence over the provisions of any other plan, arrangement or agreement governing the Executive's rights and entitlements to any benefits or compensation.
Article 7.     The Company's Payment Obligation
               . Except as provided in Sections 4.3(e) and 5.2 and in Article 6, the Company's obligation to make the payments and the arrangements provided for herein shall be absolute and unconditional, and shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any offset, counterclaim, recoupment, defense, or other right which the Company may have against the Executive or anyone else. All amounts payable by the Company hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand. Each and every payment made hereunder by the Company shall be final, and the Company shall not seek to recover all or any part of such payment from the Executive or from whomsoever may be entitled thereto, for any reasons whatsoever, except as otherwise provided in Article 6 or Article 9; provided that this Section does not preclude the Company from pursuing causes of action that it otherwise might have against the Executive.
7.1.
Payment of Obligations Absolute
           The Executive shall not be obligated to seek other employment in mitigation of the amounts payable or arrangements made under any provision of this Agreement, and the obtaining of any such other employment shall in no event effect any reduction of the Company's obligations to make the payments and arrangements required to be made under this Agreement, except to the extent provided in Section 4.4(d).
               . This Agreement establishes and vests in the Executive a contractual right to the benefits to which he or she is entitled hereunder. The Company expressly waives any ability, if possible, to deny liability for any breach of its contractual commitment hereunder upon the grounds of lack of consideration, accord and satisfaction or any other defense. In any dispute arising after a Change in Control as to whether the Executive is entitled to benefits under this Agreement, there shall be a presumption that the Executive is entitled to such benefits and the burden of proving otherwise shall be on the Company. However, nothing herein contained shall require or be deemed to require, or prohibit or be deemed to prohibit, the Company to segregate, earmark, or otherwise set aside any funds or other assets, in trust or otherwise, to provide for any payments to be made or required hereunder.
7.2.
Contractual Right to Benefits
               . All payments, benefits and amounts provided under this Agreement shall be in addition to and not in substitution for any pension rights under the Company's tax-qualified pension plan, supplemental retirement plans, nonqualified deferred compensation plans, and any disability, workers' compensation or other Company benefit plan distribution that the Executive is entitled to at his or her Effective Date of Termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement shall not create an inference that any duplicate payments shall be required. No payments made pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered compensation for purposes of any such benefit plan; provided that any amount paid pursuant to Section 4.4(c) shall not be subject to such limitation. Payment of the Executive's accrued and unpaid Base Salary and accrued vacation pay through the Executive's Effective Date of Termination shall be deemed to not duplicate any benefit contemplated by this Agreement and
7.3.
Pension Plans; Duplicate Benefits
 
shall not result in an offset pursuant to Section 4.3(e). Any acceleration of vesting, lapse of restrictions and/or payout occasioned by a Change in Control pursuant to the provisions of any long-term incentive plan and/or individual award agreement under such a long-term incentive plan shall be deemed to not duplicate any benefit contemplated by this Agreement and shall not result in an offset pursuant to Section 4.3(e).
Article 8.    Trade Secrets; Non-Solicitation and Non-Disparagement
          By executing this Agreement and again by receiving any benefits provided for by this Agreement, the Executive agrees as follows:
Article 9.     Claims Procedure
                . The Executive or, in the event of the Executive's death, the Executive's Beneficiary (as applicable, the "Claimant") may deliver to the Committee a written
9.1.
Committee Review
 
claim for a determination with respect to the amounts distributable to such Claimant from this Agreement. Such claim shall be delivered to the Committee in care of the Company in accordance with the notice provisions of Section 11.5. If such a claim relates to the contents of a notice received by the Claimant, the claim must be made within sixty (60) days after such notice was received by the Claimant. All other claims must be made within two hundred and seventy (270) days of the date on which the event that caused the claim to arise occurred. The claim must state with particularity the determination desired by the Claimant.
                . The Committee shall consider a Claimant's claim pursuant to Section 9.1 within a reasonable time, but no later than ninety (90) days after receiving the claim. If the Committee determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Claimant prior to the termination of the initial ninety (90) day period. In no event shall such extension exceed a period of ninety (90) days from the end of the initial period. The extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which the Committee expects to render the benefit determination. The Committee shall notify the Claimant in writing:
9.2.
Notification of Decision
                . With respect to claims made prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control, a Claimant's compliance with the foregoing provisions of this Article 9 is a mandatory prerequisite to a Claimant's right to commence arbitration pursuant to Section 9.4 with respect to any claim for benefits under this Agreement. With respect to claims made upon and after the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Claimant
9.3.
Pre and Post-Change in Control Procedures
 
may proceed directly to arbitration in accordance with Section 9.4 and need not first satisfy the foregoing provisions of this Article 9.
               . All claims or controversies arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, that the Company may have against any Claimant, or that any Claimant may have against the Company or against its officers, directors, employees or agents acting in their capacity as such, shall, subject to the initial review provided for in the foregoing provisions of this Article 9 that are effective with respect to claims brought prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control, be resolved through arbitration as provided in this Section 9.4. The decision of an arbitrator on any issue, dispute, claim or controversy submitted for arbitration, shall be final and binding upon the Company and the Claimant and that judgment may be entered on the award of the arbitrator in any court having proper jurisdiction. The arbitrator shall review any claim previously considered by the Committee pursuant to Section 9.1.
9.4.
Arbitration of Claims
de novo
          All expenses of such arbitration, including the fees and expenses of the counsel for the Executive, shall be advanced and borne by the Company; provided, however, that if it is finally determined that the Claimant did not commence the arbitration in good faith and had no reasonable basis therefore, the Claimant shall repay all advanced fees and expenses and shall reimburse the Company for its reasonable legal fees and expenses in connection therewith.
          Except as otherwise provided in this procedure or by mutual agreement of the parties, any arbitration shall be administered: (1) in accordance with the then-current Model Employment Arbitration Procedures of the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") before an arbitrator who is licensed to practice law in the state in which the arbitration is convened; or (2) if locally available, the Judicial Arbitration & Mediation Services, Inc. ("JAMS"), in accordance with the JAMS procedures then in effect. The party who did not initiate the claim can designate between JAMS or AAA (the "Tribunal"). The arbitration shall be held in the city in which the Claimant is or was last employed by the Company in the nearest Tribunal office or at a mutually agreeable location. Pre-hearing and post-hearing procedures may be held by telephone or in person as the arbitrator deems necessary.
          The arbitrator shall be selected as follows: if the parties cannot agree on an arbitrator, the Tribunal (JAMS or AAA) shall then provide the names of nine (9) available arbitrators experienced in business employment matters along with their resumes and fee schedules. Each party may strike all names on the list it deems unacceptable. If more than one common name remains on the list of all parties, the parties shall strike names alternately until only one remains. The party who did not initiate the claim shall strike first. If no common name remains on the lists of the parties, the Tribunal shall furnish an additional list or lists until an arbitrator is selected.
          The arbitrator shall interpret this Agreement, any applicable Company policy or rules and regulations, any applicable substantive law (and the law of remedies, if applicable) of the state in which the claim arose, or applicable federal law. In reaching his or her decision, the arbitrator shall have no authority to change or modify any lawful Company policy, rule or regulation, or this Agreement. The arbitrator, and not any federal, state or local court or agency, shall have exclusive and broad authority to resolve any dispute relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability or formation of this Agreement, including but not limited to, any claim that all or any part of this Agreement is voidable.
 
          The arbitrator shall have authority to entertain a motion to dismiss and/or motion for summary judgment by any party and shall apply the standards governing such motions under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
          Each party shall have the right to take the deposition of one individual and any expert witness(es) designated by another party. Each party shall also have the opportunity to obtain documents from another party through one request for production of documents. Additional discovery may be had only when the arbitrator so orders upon a showing of substantial need. Any disputes regarding depositions, requests for production of documents or other discovery shall be submitted to the arbitrator for determination.
          Each party shall have the right to subpoena witnesses and documents for the arbitration hearing by requesting a subpoena from the arbitrator. Any such request shall be served on all other parties, who shall advise the arbitrator in writing of any objections that the party may have to issuance of the subpoena within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the request.
          At least thirty (30) calendar days before the arbitration, the parties must exchange lists of witnesses, including any expert(s), and copies of all exhibits intended to be used at the arbitration.
Article 10.     Successors and Assignment
              . The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise) of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company or of any division or subsidiary thereof (the business and/or assets of which constitute at least fifty percent (50%) of the total business and/or assets of the Company) to expressly assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations under this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform them if such succession had not taken place.
10.1.
Successors to the Company
              . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees, and legatees. If the Executive dies while any amount would still be payable to him or her hereunder had he or she continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid to the Executive's Beneficiary in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
10.2.
Assignment by the Executive
Article 11.    Miscellaneous
              . Except as may be provided under any other written agreement between the Executive and the Company, the employment of the Executive by the Company is "at will," and, prior to the effective date of a Change in Control, may be terminated by either the Executive or the Company at any time, subject to applicable law.
11.1.
Employment Status
              . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural.
11.2.
Gender and Number
 
              . In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included. Further, the captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force and effect.
11.3.
Severability
              . No provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived, or discharged unless as to the Executive such modification, waiver, or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by each affected Executive and by an authorized member of the Committee or its designee, or by the respective parties' legal representatives and successors.
11.4.
Modification
              . For purposes of this Agreement, notices, including a Notice of Termination, and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or on the date stamped as received by the U.S. Postal Service for delivery by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid and addressed: (i) if to the Executive, to his or her latest address as reflected on the records of the Company, and (ii) if to the Company: Northrop Grumman Corporation, 1840 Century Park East, Los Angeles, California 90067, Attn: Chief Human Resources Officer, or to such other address as the Company may furnish to the Executive in writing with specific reference to this Agreement and the importance of the notice, except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
11.5.
Notice
              . To the extent not preempted by the laws of the United States, the laws of the State of California shall be the controlling law in all matters relating to this Agreement. Any statutory reference in this Agreement shall also be deemed to refer to all applicable final rules and final regulations promulgated under or with respect to the referenced statutory provision.
11.6.
Applicable Law
          , the parties have executed this Agreement on this day of , 2009.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
       
                    
                    


