FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20090723082453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On July 23, 2009, Northrop Grumman Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, under the heading "Northrop Grumman Reports Second Quarter 2009 Financial Results". The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)    Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
Northrop Grumman Reports Second Quarter 2009 Financial Results
     LOS ANGELES  July 23, 2009  Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE: NOC) reported that second quarter 2009 earnings from continuing operations totaled $394 million, or $1.21 per diluted share, compared with $483 million, or $1.40 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2008. Second quarter 2009 net pension adjustment (FAS/CAS) reduced earnings from continuing operations by $49 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, compared with an increase to earnings from continuing operations of $45 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2008.
     Second quarter 2009 earnings included a net $64 million pre-tax gain, or $0.13 per diluted share, for legal matters, as well as a $105 million pre-tax charge, or $0.21 per diluted share, for cost increases in the estimates to complete several ships under construction at the company's Gulf Coast shipyards.
     Sales for the 2009 second quarter increased 4 percent to $8.96 billion from $8.63 billion in the 2008 second quarter. Second quarter 2009 sales were reduced by $100 million due to the estimate to complete adjustments in Shipbuilding. In the 2009 second quarter, $830 million of cash was provided by operations, compared with $607 million of cash provided by operations in the prior year period.
     "Overall, our portfolio continues to perform well. This quarter's financial results reflect higher pension costs and the aggressive actions we are taking to drive improvement in our Gulf Coast shipbuilding programs. Our year-to-date performance is on-track and we are confirming our 2009 guidance for sales, EPS and cash generation," said Ronald D. Sugar, chairman and chief executive officer.
 
Financial Highlights
 
     Operating income for the 2009 second quarter totaled $653 million compared with $806 million in the prior year period. The change reflects a $145 million increase in net pension expense and a $112 million decrease in Shipbuilding operating income, which were partially offset by a $64 million improvement in unallocated expenses principally due to the settlement of certain legal matters. As a percent of sales, operating income declined to 7.3 percent from 9.3 percent in the prior year period.
     As reconciled below, pension-adjusted operating income totaled 8.1 percent of sales for the second quarter 2009 compared with 8.5 percent of sales for the second quarter 2008. Second quarter 2009 pension-adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 7 percent to $1.36 from $1.27 for the prior year period.
     Federal and foreign income taxes for the 2009 second quarter declined to $202 million from $256 million in the second quarter of 2008. The effective tax rate applied to earnings from continuing operations for the 2009 second quarter was 33.9 percent compared with 34.6 percent in the 2008 second quarter.
     Earnings per share are based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 325.8 million for the second quarter of 2009 and 344.1 million for the second quarter of 2008. During the second quarter of 2009 the company repurchased approximately 5.8 million shares of its common stock.
 
     New business awards totaled $7.5 billion in the second quarter 2009. Total backlog, which includes funded backlog and firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer, was $70.4 billion as of June 30, 2009, compared with $76.9 billion at March 31, 2009. During the second quarter the U.S. government terminated for convenience the Kinetic Energy Interceptor program. As a result of the termination, total backlog was reduced by $5.1 billion.
Pension-adjusted Results
 
 
Cash Flow Highlights
Discretionary pension pre-funding impact is the impact to cash provided by operations resulting from the company's discretionary pension contributions. The company made a discretionary pension contribution of $214 million in the first quarter of 2009, and anticipates total discretionary pension contributions of $500 million for the year. Cash income taxes were reduced by $88 million in the second quarter of 2009, for these anticipated contributions resulting in a net impact to cash provided by operations of $126 million through June 30, 2009.
Cash provided by operations in the 2009 second quarter totaled $830 million compared with $607 million in the prior year period. The improvement is due to lower working capital than in the prior year period. Second quarter 2009 free cash flow totaled $676 million compared with free cash flow of $431 million in the prior year period.
Cash Measurements, Debt and Capital Deployment
 
     Changes in cash and cash equivalents include the following cash deployment and financing actions during the quarter:
 
Settlement of Legal Matters
     As previously reported, on April 2 the company reached an agreement with the U.S. government to settle two legal matters: the Department of Justice's microelectronics claim and the company's claim against the U.S. government related to the award, performance and termination of the Tri-Service Standoff Attack Missile (TSSAM) program. While the stated settlement amounts for the two claims were equal and therefore offset each other, the company had previously recorded a provision for the microelectronics claim. After legal costs and provisions for litigation matters, the company recorded a net pre-tax gain of $64 million in the 2009 second quarter.
2009 Guidance Confirmed
 
 
Business Results
($ millions)
Consolidated Sales & Segment Operating Income
     Beginning in the first quarter of 2009, operating results for all periods presented reflect the realignment of the former Mission Systems and Information Technology sectors into Information Systems and the realignment of the former Integrated Systems and Space Technology sectors into Aerospace Systems. In addition, the presentation reflects the transfer of certain businesses from Information Systems and Electronic Systems to Technical Services. Schedule 6 provides previously reported quarterly financial results revised to reflect the current reporting structure.
 
Aerospace Systems
     Aerospace Systems second quarter 2009 sales increased 8 percent, principally due to higher volume for manned aircraft programs such as F/A-18, F-35, Joint STARS, E-2C, and B-2; unmanned aircraft programs, including Broad Area Maritime Surveillance (BAMS) Unmanned Aerial System, Global Hawk, and Navy Unmanned Combat Air Systems Carrier (N-UCAS); and restricted programs. Higher volume for these programs was partially offset by lower volume for the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) and the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS) programs.
     Aerospace Systems operating income rose 9 percent, and as a percent of sales, was comparable to the prior year period at 9.6 percent. The increase in operating income is due to higher volume.
Electronic Systems
     Electronic Systems second quarter 2009 sales increased 18 percent. The increase reflects higher deliveries of Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) systems; higher volume for the Space Based Infrared System (SBIRS) program; higher volume for postal automation programs, and higher intercompany sales for aerospace and naval & marine programs.
     Electronic Systems second quarter 2009 operating income rose 25 percent, and as a percent of sales increased to 12.8 percent from 12.1 percent in the prior year period. The increases in operating income and margin rate are due to higher volume and improved program performance.
 
Information Systems
     Information Systems second quarter 2009 sales increased 3 percent due to higher sales for intelligence and defense programs. The higher volume for these programs was partially offset by lower volume for state and local programs.
     Information Systems operating income declined slightly in the 2009 second quarter. As a percent of sales, operating income was 7.9 percent compared with 8.2 percent in the prior year period. The declines were principally due to lower performance for state and local programs.
Shipbuilding
     Shipbuilding second quarter 2009 sales decreased 10 percent primarily due to lower volume for expeditionary warfare programs than in the prior year period. These declines were partially offset by higher volume for submarine programs. Lower expeditionary warfare volume was principally due to a $100 million revenue reduction related to the revised estimates to complete LPD-class ships and the LHA 6. Lower expeditionary warfare volume also reflects the delivery of the LHD 8.
     Shipbuilding operating income for the 2009 second quarter declined to $14 million from $126 million in the second quarter of 2008. Second quarter 2009 operating income includes a $105 million pre-tax charge to reflect higher estimates to complete LPD-class ships and the LHA 6. These adjustments reflect additional expense to improve design, engineering, production and quality processes. The adjustments for the LPD class primarily reflect increased production cost estimates. The LHA 6 adjustment reflects increased investment to mature the ship's engineering and design work and reduce future production risk.
 
Technical Services
     Technical Services sales increased 11 percent due to higher volume for life cycle optimization & engineering, and training & simulation programs. Operating income increased 2 percent, and as a percent of sales, was 6.1 percent compared with 6.6 percent in the prior year period. The lower margin rate in the second quarter of 2009 reflects a change in program mix from the prior year period.
Second Quarter Highlights
 
 
About Northrop Grumman
     Northrop Grumman Corporation is a leading global security company whose 120,000 employees provide innovative systems, products, and solutions in aerospace, electronics, information systems, shipbuilding and technical services to government and commercial customers worldwide.
     Northrop Grumman will webcast its earnings conference call at 11:30 a.m. EDT on July 23, 2009. A live audio broadcast of the conference call along with a supplemental presentation will be available on the investor relations page of the company's Web site at .
http://www.northropgrumman.com
Statements in this release and the attachments, other than statements of historical fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "forecast," "believe," "estimate," "outlook," "guidance," "target," "trends," and similar expressions generally identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this release and the attachments include, among other things, financial guidance regarding future sales, segment operating income, pension expense, employer contributions under pension plans and medical and life benefits plans, cash flow and earnings. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially due to factors such as: the effect of economic conditions in the United States and globally; access to capital; future sales and cash flows; timing of cash receipts; effective tax rates and timing and amounts of tax payments; returns on pension plan assets, interest and discount rates and other changes that may impact pension plan assumptions; the outcome of litigation, claims, audits, appeals, bid protests and investigations; hurricane-related insurance recoveries; costs of environmental
 
remediation; our relationships with labor unions; availability and retention of qualified personnel; costs of capital investments; changes in organizational structure and reporting segments; risks associated with acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and other business arrangements; possible impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets; effects of legislation, rulemaking, and changes in accounting, tax or defense procurement; changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including, government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, changes in import and export policies, changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); acquisition or termination of contracts; technical, operational or quality setbacks in contract performance; issues with, and financial viability of, key suppliers and subcontractors; availability of materials and supplies; controlling costs of fixed-price development programs; contractual performance relief and the application of cost sharing terms; allowability and allocability of costs under U.S. Government contracts; progress and acceptance of new products and technology; domestic and international competition; legal, financial and governmental risks related to international transactions; potential security threats, natural disasters and other disruptions not under our control; and other risk factors disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
This release and the attachments also contain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure and a discussion of the company's use of these measures are included in this release or the attachments.
LEARN MORE ABOUT US: Northrop Grumman news releases, product information, photos and video clips are available on the Internet at:
http://www.northropgrumman.com
0709-351
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
 
SCHEDULE 5
 
 The estimated value of contract awards included in backlog during the six months ended June 30, 2009, was approximately $14.6 billion.
New Awards
 In the second quarter of 2009, the company was notified that the Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI) program was terminated for convenience by the Missile Defense Agency. The KEI termination was recorded as a reduction to total backlog of $5.1 billion at Aerospace Systems.
Backlog Adjustment
 
SCHEDULE 6
 
NOTE: There have been no changes to the realigned segment operating results since this schedule was first made available with the First Quarter 2009 earnings release filed on April 22, 2009.


