FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20100921165930.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
The Independent Members of the Board of Directors of Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") approved certain terms of a relocation arrangement consistent with company policy for Wesley G. Bush, Chief Executive Officer and President, in connection with the relocation of the Company headquarters to Virginia. The terms are set forth in their entirety in a letter dated September 21, 2010, signed by Mr. Lewis W. Coleman, Chairman of the Board of the Company, and accepted by Mr. Bush. A copy of the letter is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 21, 2010
 

Exhibit 10.1
September 21, 2010
Dear Wes,
This letter serves to confirm the terms of your relocation to Virginia as approved by the Board of Directors. You will receive the following benefits in accordance with the company's relocation policy and as approved by the Board of Directors:
In accordance with your request, you will not receive any of the other reimbursements that would normally be provided under the Company's relocation policy.
Once you have acquired a residence in Virginia, the company will provide or reimburse you for enhancements to the residence deemed necessary by the company for your security under the Company's Security Program.
Sincerely,
/s/ LEW COLEMAN Lew Coleman Chairman of the Board
Accepted:
/s/ WES BUSH Wes Bush Chief Executive Officer and President


