FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20101027080535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On October 27, 2010, Northrop Grumman Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, under the heading "Northrop Grumman Reports Third Quarter 2010 Financial Results". The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)    Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

          LOS ANGELES  Oct. 27, 2010  Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE: NOC) reported that third quarter 2010 earnings from continuing operations increased to $489 million, or $1.64 per diluted share, from $464 million, or $1.45 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2009. Net earnings for the 2010 third quarter increased to $497 million, or $1.67 per diluted share, from $490 million, or $1.53 per diluted share, in the prior year period. The 2009 third quarter included a net tax benefit of $75 million, or $0.23 per diluted share. Third quarter 2010 sales increased 4 percent to $8.7 billion from $8.35 billion.
          Cash provided by operations totaled $978 million in the third quarter of 2010 compared with $544 million in the third quarter of 2009. New business awards for the 2010 third quarter totaled $7.4 billion, bringing total backlog to $64.6 billion as of Sept. 30, 2010.
          "This was a strong quarter for Northrop Grumman. Third quarter results demonstrate that our focus on sustainable performance improvement continues to gain traction across the corporation. All our businesses performed well, and based on year-to-date results, we are raising our 2010 EPS guidance to $6.85 to $7.00 per share. We are also confirming our guidance for cash from operations and free cash flow. Looking ahead, we continue to position the company to generate value for shareholders, customers and employees," said Wes Bush, chief executive officer and president.
          
 
 
Table 1 - Financial Highlights
 
             Third quarter 2010 operating income increased 29 percent to $801 million from $619 million in the prior year period, and as a percent of sales increased 180 basis points to 9.2 percent from 7.4 percent. The improvement principally reflects higher segment operating income and lower net pension adjustment. Third quarter 2010 segment operating income increased $107 million, or 14 percent, driven by double-digit increases in operating income for four of five businesses. As a percent of sales, third quarter 2010 segment operating income improved 80 basis points to 9.8 percent from 9 percent. Net pension adjustment improved to an expense of $8 million from an expense of $72 million in the prior year period. Unallocated corporate expenses totaled $46 million in the 2010 third quarter and $55 million in the 2009 third quarter.
             Federal and foreign income taxes increased to $257 million from $120 million in the third quarter of 2009. Third quarter 2009 earnings included a net tax benefit of $75 million, primarily for final settlement of the Internal Revenue Service's examination of the company's 2001, 2002 and 2003 tax returns. The effective tax rate for the 2010 third quarter was 34.5 percent compared with 20.5 percent in the 2009 third quarter.
          
 
 
             Third quarter 2010 diluted earnings per share are based on 297.6 million weighted average shares outstanding compared with 320.6 million shares in the third quarter of 2009.
Table 2 - Cash Flow Highlights
 
             Free cash flow totaled $817 million in the 2010 third quarter compared with $384 million in the prior year period. The improvement in 2010 third quarter free cash flow reflects lower pension pre-funding and improved working capital. Third quarter 2010 cash from operations included a $60 million discretionary contribution to the company's pension plans. Third quarter 2009 cash from operations included discretionary pension contributions of $586 million and $47 million from discontinued operations, principally for the Advisory Services business (TASC), which was divested in December of 2009.
          
 
 
Table 3  2010 Guidance Updated
 
 
Table 4 - Cash Measurements, Debt and Capital Deployment
 
 
        Changes in cash and cash equivalents include the following items for cash from operations, investing and financing through Sept. 30, 2010:
Operations
Investing
          
 
 
Financing
 
Table 5 - Business Results
Consolidated Sales & Segment Operating Income
1
 
               Results for TASC, divested in December 2009, are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
          
 
 
Aerospace Systems
($ millions)
          Aerospace Systems third quarter 2010 sales increased 7 percent, principally due to higher volume for manned and unmanned aircraft programs. Higher volume for these programs was partially offset by lower volume for civil space and missile defense programs. Aerospace Systems third quarter 2010 operating income increased 14 percent, and as a percent of sales increased to 11.2 percent from 10.5 percent in the prior year period. Higher operating income and margin rate are due to higher volume and improved program performance primarily in manned aircraft programs.
Electronic Systems
($ millions)
          Electronic Systems third quarter 2010 sales increased 2 percent due to higher sales of targeting and postal automation systems, partially offset by lower sales of land and self protection systems. Electronic Systems third quarter 2010 operating income increased 21 percent, and as a percent of sales increased to 13.9 percent from 11.7 percent. Higher operating income and margin rate are primarily due to improved program performance for postal automation and land and self protection systems programs.
Information Systems
($ millions)
 
          Information Systems third quarter 2010 sales were comparable to the prior year period. Sales in the period included higher volume for defense systems, which was largely offset by lower sales for intelligence and civil systems programs. Third quarter 2010 operating income increased 13 percent and as a percent of sales totaled 8.9 percent compared with 7.9 percent in the prior year period. Higher operating income and rate primarily reflect improved program performance for civil systems.
Shipbuilding
($ millions)
          Shipbuilding third quarter 2010 sales increased 1 percent. Third quarter 2010 operating income declined 11 percent, and as a percent of sales totaled 6 percent compared with 6.8 percent in the third quarter of 2009. The declines in operating income and rate are primarily due to lower performance for expeditionary warfare programs, partially offset by milestone incentives on the LPD program.
Technical Services
($ millions)
          Technical Services third quarter 2010 sales increased 26 percent primarily due to higher volume for integrated logistics and modernization programs. Technical Services third quarter 2010 operating income increased 37 percent, and as a percent of sales increased to 6.4 percent from 5.9 percent. The improvements in operating income and rate are due to higher volume, improved business mix and improved performance.
 
About Northrop Grumman
          Northrop Grumman will webcast its earnings conference call at 10:30 a.m. ET on Oct. 27, 2010. A live audio broadcast of the conference call along with a supplemental presentation will be available on the investor relations page of the company's Website at .
http://www.northropgrumman.com
          Northrop Grumman Corporation is a leading global security company whose 120,000 employees provide innovative systems, products, and solutions in aerospace, electronics, information systems, shipbuilding and technical services to government and commercial customers worldwide. Please visit for more information.
www.northropgrumman.com
Statements in this release and the attachments, other than statements of historical fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "forecast," "believe," "estimate," "outlook," "guidance," and similar expressions generally identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this release and the attachments include, among other things, financial guidance regarding future sales, segment operating income, pension expense, employer contributions under pension plans and medical and life benefits plans, cash flow and earnings. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially due to factors such as: the effect of the government's newly announced plans to change its current procurement practices; timing and execution of Shipbuilding's Gulf Coast consolidation; execution of any strategic alternative for the Shipbuilding business; the effects of changes to capital structure; the effect of economic conditions in the United States and globally; access to capital; future sales and cash flows; timing of cash receipts; effective tax rates and timing and amounts of tax payments; returns on pension plan assets, interest and discount rates and other changes that may impact pension plan assumptions; retiree medical expense; the outcome of litigation, claims, audits, appeals, bid protests and investigations; hurricane and earthquake-related insurance coverage and recoveries; costs of environmental remediation; our relationships with labor unions; availability and retention of qualified personnel; costs of capital investments; changes in organizational structure and reporting segments; risks associated with acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures, strategic alliances and other business arrangements; possible impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets; effects of legislation, rulemaking, and changes in accounting, tax or defense procurement; changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including, government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, changes in import and export policies, changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); acquisition or termination of contracts; technical, operation or quality setbacks in contract performance; protection of intellectual property rights; risks associated with our nuclear operations; issues with, and financial viability of, key suppliers and subcontractors; availability of materials and supplies; controlling costs of fixed-price development programs; contractual performance relief and the application of cost sharing terms; allowability and allocability of costs under U.S. Government contracts; progress and acceptance of new products and technology; domestic and international competition; legal, financial and governmental risks related to international transactions; potential security threats, natural disasters and other disruptions not under our control; and other risk factors disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
 
This release and the attachments also contain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure and a discussion of the company's use of these measures are included in this release or the attachments.
LEARN MORE ABOUT US: Northrop Grumman news releases, product information, photos and video clips are available on the Internet at:
http://www.northropgrumman.com
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
SCHEDULE 5
 
 The estimated value of contract awards included in backlog during the nine months ended September 30, 2010, was $20.8 billion.
New Awards
During the second quarter of 2010, the company reached an agreement with the Commonwealth of Virginia that modified certain aspects of the Virginia IT outsourcing contract. As a result of these modifications, total backlog at September 30, 2010 includes an $824 million favorable adjustment to reflect minimum values for years 2011 through 2016, which are now provided for in the contract.
 
SCHEDULE 6
 
 
Today's press release contains non-GAAP (accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America) financial measures, as defined by SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) Regulation G and indicated by a footnote in the text of the release. While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures may be useful in evaluating Northrop Grumman's financial information, they should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Definitions are provided for the non-GAAP measures and reconciliations are provided in the body of the release and in attached schedules. References to a "Table" in the definitions below relate to tables in the body of this press release. Other companies may define these measures differently or may utilize different non-GAAP measures.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures Disclosure:
Cash provided by operations before the after-tax impact of discretionary pension contributions. Cash provided by operations before discretionary pension contributions has been provided for consistency and comparability of 2010 and 2009 financial performance and is reconciled on Table 2.
Cash provided by operations before discretionary pension contributions
:
Cash provided by operations less capital expenditures and outsourcing contract and related software costs. We use free cash flow as a key factor in our planning for and consideration of strategic acquisitions, stock repurchases and the payment of dividends. This measure should not be considered in isolation, as a measure of residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes, or as an alternative to operating results presented in accordance with GAAP. Free cash flow is reconciled in Table 2.
Free cash flow:
Free cash flow before the after-tax impact of discretionary pension contributions. We use free cash flow before discretionary pension contributions as a key factor in our planning for and consideration of strategic acquisitions, stock repurchases and the payment of dividends. This measure should not be considered in isolation, as a measure of residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes, or as an alternative to operating results presented in accordance with GAAP. Free cash flow before discretionary pension contributions is presented in Table 3.
Free cash flow before discretionary pension contributions:
Pension expense determined in accordance with GAAP less pension expense allocated to the operating segments under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS). Net pension adjustment is presented in Table 1.
Net pension adjustment:
The per share impact of the net pension adjustment as defined above, after tax at the statutory rate of 35%, provided for consistency and comparability of 2010 and 2009 financial performance and reconciled on Table 1.
After-tax net pension adjustment per share:
Diluted EPS from continuing operations excluding the after-tax net pension adjustment per share. These per share amounts are provided for consistency and comparability of operating results. Management uses pension-adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations, as reconciled in Table 1, as an internal measure of financial performance.
Pension-adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations:
Operating income before net pension adjustment as reconciled in Table 1 and used as an internal measure of financial performance.
Pension-adjusted operating income:
Pension-adjusted operating income as defined above, divided by sales. Management uses pension-adjusted operating income as a % of sales, as reconciled in Table 1, as an internal measure of financial performance.
Pension-adjusted operating income as a % of sales:
 
Total earnings from our five segments including allocated pension expense recognized under CAS. Reconciling items to operating income are unallocated corporate expenses, which include management and administration, legal, environmental, certain compensation and retiree benefits, and other expenses; net pension adjustment; and reversal of royalty income included in segment operating income. Management uses segment operating income, as reconciled in Table 5, as an internal measure of financial performance of our individual operating segments.
Segment operating income (loss):
Segment operating income as defined above, divided by sales. Management uses segment operating income as a % of sales, as reconciled in Table 5, as an internal measure of financial performance.
Segment operating margin % / Segment operating income as a % of sales:


