FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20100428080611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On April 28, 2010, Northrop Grumman Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, under the heading "Northrop Grumman Reports First Quarter 2010 Financial Results". The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)    Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Northrop Grumman Reports First Quarter 2010 Financial Results
          LOS ANGELES  April 28, 2010  Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE: NOC) reported that first quarter 2010 earnings from continuing operations increased to $462 million, or $1.51 per diluted share, from $366 million, or $1.10 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2009. First quarter 2010 sales increased 8.5 percent to $8.6 billion from $7.9 billion. The first quarter of 2010 included more working days than the first quarter of 2009.
          Cash used by operations in the first quarter of 2010 totaled $531 million compared with cash used by operations of $172 million in the first quarter of 2009. New business awards for the 2010 first quarter totaled $6.9 billion, bringing total backlog to $67.5 billion as of Mar. 31, 2010.
          "This was a solid quarter for Northrop Grumman. Based on this quarter's strong EPS growth, we now expect earnings per share of $5.75 to $6.00. Although cash flow was seasonally low, we are on track to achieve our 2010 guidance. Looking ahead, we are focused on continuing to drive performance improvements that create value," said Wes Bush, chief executive officer and president.
          
 
 
Table 1 - Financial Highlights
Non-GAAP metric - see definitions and reconciliations at the end of this press release.
1
          First quarter 2010 operating income increased 24 percent to $765 million from $619 million in the prior year period, and as a percent of sales increased to 8.9 percent from 7.8 percent. The improvement over the prior year reflects a decrease in net pension adjustment, higher segment operating income, and lower unallocated corporate expenses. First quarter 2010 net pension adjustment declined to an expense of $8 million from an expense of $76 million in the prior year period; segment operating income increased by $55 million, and unallocated corporate expenses declined to $33 million from $53 million. The decline in unallocated corporate expenses reflects lower legal and environmental expenses than in the prior year period.
          Federal and foreign income taxes totaled $230 million in the first quarter of 2010 compared with $188 million in the prior year, and the effective tax rates for these periods were 33.2 percent and 33.9 percent, respectively.
          First quarter 2010 diluted earnings per share are based on 306.1 million weighted average shares outstanding compared with 332.1 million shares in the first quarter of 2009.
 
Table 2 - Cash Flow Highlights
Non-GAAP metric - see definitions and reconciliations at the end of this press release
1
     Free cash outflow totaled $669 million in the 2010 first quarter compared with outflow of $352 million in the prior year period. The change in free cash flow in the 2010 period resulted from additional working capital requirements, one additional payroll period due to the additional working days in the quarter, and higher taxes paid.
Table 3  Operating Guidance Updated
Non-GAAP metric - see definitions and reconciliations at the end of this press release.
1
 
Table 4 - Cash Measurements, Debt and Capital Deployment
Total debt less cash and cash equivalents. Net debt divided by the sum of shareholders' equity and total debt.
1
2
     Changes in cash and cash equivalents include the following items for cash from operations, investing and financing during the first quarter of 2010:
Operations
Investing
Financing
Table 5 - Business Results
          The 2010 first quarter included more working days than the 2009 first quarter. Results for the company's advisory services business (TASC), divested in December 2009, are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
Consolidated Sales & Segment Operating Income
1
Non-GAAP metric - see definitions and reconciliations at the end of this press release.
1
 
Aerospace Systems
($ millions)
          Aerospace Systems first quarter 2010 sales increased 10 percent, principally due to higher volume for manned and unmanned aircraft and space programs. Higher volume for these programs was partially offset by lower volume for missile defense programs. Aerospace Systems first quarter 2010 operating income increased 15 percent, and as a percent of sales increased to 11 percent from 10.5 percent in the prior year period. Higher operating income and margin rate are due to higher volume and improved program performance.
Electronic Systems
($ millions)
          Electronic Systems first quarter 2010 sales increased 5 percent due to higher sales for targeting systems programs, higher intercompany sales, and higher volume for navigation systems programs. Electronic Systems first quarter 2010 operating income was slightly lower than the prior year period, and as a percent of sales was 12 percent compared with 12.8 percent. The change in margin rate reflects lower performance for postal automation programs and lower royalty income than in the prior year period, as well as a provision for an announced workforce reduction, which more than offset improved performance in combat avionics and land and self-protection systems.
 
Information Systems
($ millions)
          Information Systems first quarter 2010 sales were 1 percent lower than the prior year period principally due to lower volume for civil systems and defense programs, which more than offset higher volume for intelligence programs. The decline in civil systems reflects lower volume across several programs, including state and local and Defense Integrated Military HR System (DIMHRS). Information Systems first quarter 2010 operating income declined slightly due to lower sales volume and as a percent of sales was comparable to the prior year period at 8.9 percent.
Shipbuilding
($ millions)
          Shipbuilding first quarter 2010 sales increased 25 percent due to higher volume for expeditionary warfare, surface combatant and aircraft carrier programs, including the LHA 6, LPD 17, DDG 51, and aircraft carrier construction programs. First quarter 2009 sales included negative adjustments for lower program performance. Shipbuilding first quarter 2010 operating income increased 26 percent as a result of higher volume, and as a percent of sales operating income improved to 6.2 percent from 6.1 percent in the prior year period. First quarter 2010 operating income includes lower performance for the LPD program, which was partially offset by an insurance recovery for business interruption related to Hurricane Ike.
Gerald R. Ford
 
Technical Services
($ millions)
          Technical Services first quarter 2010 sales increased 21 percent due to higher volume for life cycle optimization & engineering (LCOE), systems support, and training & simulation programs. Higher volume for existing programs, including Counter Narco-Terrorism, Hunter, and National Security Technology, as well as new programs such as KC-10 and C-20, contributed to higher sales. Technical Services first quarter 2010 operating income increased 32 percent, and as a percent of sales increased to 6.4 percent from 5.9 percent. The improvements in operating income and rate are due to higher volume, improved program performance and a shift in mix toward higher margin LCOE business.
About Northrop Grumman
          Northrop Grumman Corporation is a leading global security company whose 120,000 employees provide innovative systems, products, and solutions in aerospace, electronics, information systems, shipbuilding and technical services to government and commercial customers worldwide.
          Northrop Grumman will webcast its earnings conference call at 10:30 a.m. ET on Apr. 28, 2010. A live audio broadcast of the conference call along with a supplemental presentation will be available on the investor relations page of the company's Web site at
http://www.northropgrumman.com.
Statements in this release and the attachments, other than statements of historical fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "forecast," "believe," "estimate," "outlook," "guidance," "target," "trends" and similar expressions generally identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this release and the attachments include, among other things, financial guidance regarding future sales, segment operating income, pension expense, employer contributions under pension plans and medical and life benefits plans, cash flow and earnings. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially due to factors such as: the effect of economic conditions in the United States and globally; access to capital; future sales and cash flows; timing of cash receipts; effective tax rates and timing and amounts of tax payments; returns on pension plan assets, interest and discount rates and other changes that may impact pension plan assumptions; retiree medical expense; the outcome of litigation, claims, audits, appeals, bid protests and investigations; hurricane and earthquake-related insurance coverage and recoveries; costs of environmental remediation; our relationships
 
with labor unions; availability and retention of qualified personnel; costs of capital investments; changes in organizational structure and reporting segments; risks associated with acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures, strategic alliances and other business arrangements; possible impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets; effects of legislation, rulemaking, and changes in accounting, tax or defense procurement; changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including, government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, changes in import and export policies, changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); acquisition or termination of contracts; technical, operation or quality setbacks in contract performance; protection of intellectual property rights; risks associated with our nuclear operations; issues with, and financial viability of, key suppliers and subcontractors; availability of materials and supplies; controlling costs of fixed-price development programs; contractual performance relief and the application of cost sharing terms; allowability and allocability of costs under U.S. Government contracts; progress and acceptance of new products and technology; domestic and international competition; legal, financial and governmental risks related to international transactions; potential security threats, natural disasters and other disruptions not under our control; and other risk factors disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
This release and the attachments also contain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure and a discussion of the company's use of these measures are included in this release or the attachments.
LEARN MORE ABOUT US: Northrop Grumman news releases, product information, photos and video clips are available on the Internet at:
http://www.northropgrumman.com
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
SCHEDULE 5
 
 
 The estimated value of contract awards included in backlog during the three months ended March 31, 2010, was approximately $6.9 billion.
New Awards
 
     
SCHEDULE 6
 
 
Today's press release contains non-GAAP (accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America) financial measures, as defined by SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) Regulation G and indicated by a footnote in the text of the release. While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures may be useful in evaluating Northrop Grumman's financial information, they should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Definitions are provided for the non-GAAP measures and reconciliations are provided in the body of the release and in attached schedules. References to a "Table" in the definitions below relate to tables in the body of this press release. Other companies may define these measures differently or may utilize different non-GAAP measures.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures Disclosure:
Cash (used in) provided by operations before the after-tax impact of discretionary pension contributions. Cash (used in) provided by operations before discretionary pension contributions has been provided for consistency and comparability of 2010 and 2009 financial performance and is reconciled on Table 2.
Cash (used in) provided by operations before discretionary pension contributions
:
Cash used in operations less capital expenditures and outsourcing contract and related software costs. We use free cash flow as a key factor in our planning for and consideration of strategic acquisitions, stock repurchases and the payment of dividends. This measure should not be considered in isolation, as a measure of residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes, or as an alternative to operating results presented in accordance with GAAP. Free cash flow is reconciled in Table 2.
Free cash flow:
Free cash flow before the after-tax impact of discretionary pension contributions. We use free cash flow before discretionary pension contributions as a key factor in our planning for and consideration of strategic acquisitions, stock repurchases and the payment of dividends. This measure should not be considered in isolation, as a measure of residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes, or as an alternative to operating results presented in accordance with GAAP.
Free cash flow before discretionary pension contributions:
Pension expense determined in accordance with GAAP less pension expense allocated to the operating segments under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS).
Net pension adjustment:
The per share impact of the net pension adjustment as defined above, after tax at the statutory rate of 35%, provided for consistency and comparability of 2010 and 2009 financial performance and reconciled on Table 1.
After-tax net pension adjustment per share:
Diluted EPS from continuing operations excluding the after-tax net pension adjustment per share as defined above. These per share amounts are provided for consistency and comparability of operating results. Management uses pension-adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations, as reconciled in Table 1, as an internal measure of financial performance.
Pension-adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations:
Operating income before net pension adjustment as reconciled in Table 1 and used as an internal measure of financial performance.
Pension-adjusted operating income:
Pension-adjusted operating income as defined above, divided by sales. Management uses pension-adjusted operating income %, as reconciled in Table 1, as an internal measure of financial performance.
Pension-adjusted operating margin % / Pension-adjusted operating income as a % of sales:
 
 
Total earnings from our five segments including allocated pension expense recognized under CAS. Reconciling items to operating income are unallocated corporate expenses, which include management and administration, legal, environmental, certain compensation and retiree benefits, and other expenses; net pension adjustment; and reversal of royalty income included in segment operating income. Management uses segment operating income, as reconciled in Table 5, as an internal measure of financial performance of our individual operating segments.
Segment operating income:
Segment operating income as defined above, divided by sales. Management uses segment operating income %, as reconciled in Table 5, as an internal measure of financial performance.
Segment operating margin % / Segment operating income as a % of sales:
 


