FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20110725170528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers and Directors
On July 21, 2011, at the request of Wesley G. Bush, the Board of Directors of Northrop Grumman Corporation approved certain changes in Mr. Bush's retirement benefit. Mr. Bush's maximum benefit under the Officers Supplemental Executive Retirement Program (OSERP) will be reduced from 60% to 50% of his Final Average Earnings (as defined in the plan). Mr. Bush will be vested in his OSERP benefit upon becoming vested in his qualified pension plan benefit, and Mr. Bush will be eligible to receive the Early Retirement Benefit under the OSERP upon attainment of 75 points (based on age and service) as provided for in the OSERP. A copy of a letter between the Board of Directors and Mr. Bush regarding this compensatory arrangement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Bush also will not receive any additional compensation for his newly elected role as Chairman of the Board of Directors.
On July 19, 2011, the Board of Directors approved an annual retainer of $25,000 for Mr. Coleman for his services as Lead Independent Director. This payment will be in addition to the annual retainer paid to all directors. A summary of the annual compensation paid to the directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 25, 2011
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
July 21, 2011
Dear Wes,
At your request, the Northrop Grumman Board of Directors has agreed to the following action in support of the efforts you are undertaking across the Company to improve competitiveness and affordability:
 
The Committee appreciates your leadership in requesting these action.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 


