FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20110819131901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(d) Election of New Director
On August 17, 2011, the Board of Directors of Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") elected Thomas M. Schoewe to the Board of Directors effective immediately. Mr. Schoewe most recently served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. from 2000 to 2010.
The Board of Directors appointed Mr. Schoewe to the Audit Committee and the Policy Committee and determined that Mr. Schoewe satisfies the SEC's definition of "audit committee financial expert."
Mr. Schoewe is entitled to receive an annual cash retainer of $115,000 per year as well as an additional $10,000 retainer for serving on the Audit Committee. In addition, Mr. Schoewe will receive an annual equity grant of $130,000 in deferred stock units to be paid out at the conclusion of Mr. Schoewe's board service, or earlier, as specified by Mr. Schoewe, if he has five or more years of service. Mr. Schoewe's retainer fees and equity grant will be prorated for 2011, and all or a portion of his retainer fees may be deferred, at his election, into his deferred stock unit account.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing the election of Mr. Schoewe is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 19, 2011
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
Northrop Grumman Elects Thomas M. Schoewe to Its Board of Directors
LOS ANGELES  Aug. 19, 2011  Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE: NOC) announced today that it has elected Thomas M. Schoewe, former executive vice president and chief financial officer (CFO) of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to its board of directors. The addition of Schoewe increases Northrop Grumman's board of directors to 12 members, 11 of whom are nonemployee directors.
A photo accompanying this release is available at:
http://media.globenewswire.com/noc/mediagallery
"We are delighted that Tom Schoewe has joined our board of directors," said Wes Bush, chairman, chief executive officer and president. "We look forward to benefitting from his extensive corporate experience and financial expertise as we continue to focus on performance for our shareholders, customers and employees."
Schoewe was executive vice president and CFO for Wal-Mart Stores Inc. from 2000 to 2010. Prior to his employment at Walmart, he was senior vice president and chief financial officer for Black and Decker Corporation, where he also served as vice president of finance and vice president of business planning and analysis. Before joining Black and Decker, Schoewe worked for Beatrice Companies, where he was CFO and controller of Beatrice Consumer Durables Inc.
Schoewe serves on the boards of directors of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Company and PulteGroup Inc. He earned a Bachelor's of Business Administration degree in finance from Loyola University, Chicago, Ill.
Northrop Grumman is a leading global security company providing innovative systems, products and solutions in aerospace, electronics, information systems, and technical services to government and commercial customers worldwide. Please visit for more information.
www.northropgrumman.com
811-348
 
 


