FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20110222170148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On February 15, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") took the actions described below with regard to the compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers, with the exception of the Chief Executive Officer and President; and on February 16, 2011 the Independent Members of the Board of Directors took the actions described below with regard to the Chief Executive Officer and President:
     (a) The Compensation Committee approved base salaries for 2011 and cash bonus compensation for performance in 2010 as follows:
James L. Cameron, who is a Named Executive Officer, retired from the position of Corporate Vice President and President, Technical Services April 30, 2010. He received cash bonus compensation of $189,410 for performance in 2010.
Ms. Cheston joined the Company in August 2010. Her 2010 cash bonus compensation was paid based upon the terms of her employment letter dated June 7, 2010, a copy of which was filed on February 9, 2011 as Exhibit 10(qq) to Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2010.
     (b) The Compensation Committee approved the 2011 goals under the 2002 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "ICP"). Under the ICP, participants will earn cash bonus compensation based upon the Company Performance Factor and an Individual Performance Factor. Each participant's target award is based on a percentage of base salary, and awards are paid in the year following the performance period. The 2011 financial measures for the ICP are based on awards, operating margin rate before FAS/CAS net pension expense, and free cash flow conversion before discretionary pension pre-funding. The 2011 ICP also includes consideration of non-financial metrics deemed to be critical to the operating performance of the Company. Target percentages for 2011 are unchanged and are as follows: Mr. Bush  150%, Mr. Palmer  75%, Mr. Ervin  75%, Mr. Pitts  75%, Ms. Mills  75%, and Ms. Cheston  75%.
The metrics for the Restricted Performance Stock Rights for members of the Corporate Policy Council for the performance period 2011-2013 are relative total shareholder return for the Company compared to its peer companies.
     (c) The Compensation Committee approved grants of Stock Options, Restricted Performance Stock Rights and Restricted Stock Rights in the amounts set forth under the 2001 Long Term Incentive Stock Plan to the officers named below.
The Stock Options are exercisable in one-third increments on the first, second and third anniversary of the Grant Date and subject to the terms and conditions of the grant certificate filed as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The performance period
Table of Contents
for the Restricted Performance Stock Rights is January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2013. At the conclusion of the performance period, the Compensation Committee shall determine whether and the extent to which the applicable performance criteria have been achieved for purposes of determining the Restricted Performance Stock Rights payments. These awards are subject to the terms and conditions of the grant certificate filed as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated herein by reference. The Restricted Stock Rights shall vest in their entirety on the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date. These awards are subject to the terms and conditions of the grant certificate filed as Exhibit 10.3 and incorporated herein by reference. In addition to the 2011 annual grant, a special retention grant of 18,491 Restricted Stock Rights was awarded to Mr. Ervin. This grant also vests in its entirety on the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date. This award is subject to the terms and conditions of the grant certificate filed as Exhibit 10.4 and incorporated herein by reference.
Long Term Incentive Stock Plan Vesting
In February 2008, the Compensation Committee awarded Restricted Performance Stock Rights with a three-year performance period from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010. The Committee approved a 100% payout to the individuals named below based on the final evaluation of the performance factors of 3-Year Cumulative Pension Adjusted Operating Margin and Return on Net Assets for the 2008 to 2010 performance period.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The Company is providing the following update to its disclosure in the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 9, 2011 consistent with the updated disclosure in Amendment Number 6 to Form 10 being filed by Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. today:
 On January 31, 2011, the U.S. Department of Justice first informed the company and Northrop Grumman Shipbuilding, Inc. of a False Claims Act complaint that the company believes was filed under seal by a relator in mid-2010 in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. The redacted copy of the complaint that the company received (the "Complaint") alleges that through largely unspecified fraudulent means the company obtained federal funds that were restricted by law for the consequences of Hurricane Katrina ("Katrina"), and used those funds to cover costs under certain shipbuilding contracts that were unrelated to Katrina and for which the company was not entitled to recovery under the contracts. The Complaint seeks monetary damages of at least $835 million, plus penalties, attorney's fees and other costs of suit. Damages under the False Claims Act may be trebled upon a finding of liability.
Subsequent Event
For several years, the company has pursued recovery under its insurance policies for Katrina related property damage and business interruption losses. One of the insurers involved in those actions has made allegations that overlap significantly with certain of the issues raised in the Complaint, including allegations that the company used certain Katrina related funds for losses under the contracts unrelated to the hurricane. The company believes that the insurer's defenses, including those related to the use of Katrina funding, are without merit.
The company has agreed to cooperate with the government investigation relating to the False Claims Act Complaint. The company has been advised that the Department of Justice has not made a decision whether to intervene. Based upon our review to date of the information available to the company, the company believes that it has substantive defenses to the allegations in the Complaint. The company believes that the claims as set forth in the Complaint evidence a fundamental lack of understanding of the terms and conditions in the company's shipbuilding contracts, including the post-Katrina modifications to those contracts, and the manner in which the parties performed in connection with the contracts. Based upon our review to date of the information available to the company, the company believes that the claims as set forth in the Complaint lack merit and are not likely to result in a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position. The company intends vigorously to defend the matter, but the company cannot predict what new or revised claims might be asserted or what information might come to light so can give no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome.
Table of Contents
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this report, other than statements of historical fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipate," "assume," "expect," "intend," "plan," "potential," "believe," "estimate," "guidance," and similar expressions generally identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report include, among other things, financial guidance regarding future sales, segment operating income, pension expense, employer contributions under pension plans and medical and life benefits plans, cash flow and earnings. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results could differ materially due to factors such as: the effect of the government's newly announced plans to change its current procurement practices; changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, changes in import and export policies, changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); timing and execution of consolidation of Shipbuilding's Gulf Coast facilities; execution of any strategic alternative for the Shipbuilding business, including an anticipated spin-off; the effects of changes to capital structure; the effect of economic conditions in the United States and globally; access to capital; future sales and cash flows; timing of cash receipts; effective tax rates and timing and amounts of tax payments; returns on pension plan assets, interest and discount rates and other changes that may impact pension plan assumptions; retiree medical expense; the outcome of litigation, claims, audits, appeals, bid protests and investigations; hurricane and earthquake-related insurance coverage and recoveries; costs of environmental remediation; our relationships with labor unions; availability and retention of qualified personnel; costs of capital investments; changes in organizational structure and reporting segments; risks associated with acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures, strategic alliances and other business arrangements; possible impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets; effects of legislation, rulemaking, and changes in accounting, tax or defense procurement; acquisition or termination of contracts; technical, operation or quality setbacks in contract performance; protection of intellectual property rights; risks associated with our nuclear operations; issues with, and financial viability of, key suppliers and subcontractors; availability of materials and supplies; controlling costs of fixed-price development programs; contractual performance relief and the application of cost sharing terms; allowability and allocability of costs under U.S. Government contracts; progress and acceptance of new products and technology; domestic and international competition; legal, financial and governmental risks related to international transactions; potential security threats, natural disasters and other disruptions not under our control; and other risk factors disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 22, 2011

Exhibit 10.1
     These Terms and Conditions ("Terms") apply to certain stock options granted by Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") in 2011. If you were granted a stock option by the Company in 2011, the date of grant of your stock option (your "Option"), the total number of shares of common stock of the Company subject to your Option, and the per share exercise price of your Option are set forth in the letter from the Company announcing your Option grant (your "Grant Letter") and are reflected in the electronic stock plan award recordkeeping system ("Stock Plan System") maintained by the Company or its designee. These Terms apply to your Option if referenced in your Grant Letter and/or on the Stock Plan System with respect to your Option. If you were granted an Option, you are referred to as the "Grantee" with respect to your Option. Capitalized terms are generally defined in Section 10 below if not otherwise defined herein.
     The Option represents a right to purchase the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock, for the per share exercise price of the Option, each as stated in your Grant Letter and as reflected in the Stock Plan System. The number of shares and exercise price of the Option are subject to adjustment as provided herein. The Option is subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in these Terms, and is further subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, as it may be amended from time to time, and any rules adopted by the Committee, as such rules are in effect from time to time.
     . The Option is exercisable only to the extent that it has vested and has not expired or terminated. Subject to Sections 2 and 5 below, one-third (1/3) of the total number of shares of Company Common Stock subject to the Option (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.1) shall vest and become exercisable upon each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the Grant Date.
1.1
Vesting
     . In order to exercise the Option, the Grantee or such other person as may be entitled to exercise the same shall (a) execute and deliver to the Corporate Secretary of the Company a written notice indicating the number of shares subject to the Option to be exercised, and/or (b) complete such other exercise procedure as may be prescribed by the Corporate Secretary of the Company. The date of exercise of the Option shall be the day such notice is received by the Corporate Secretary of the Company or the day such exercise procedures are satisfied, as applicable; provided that in no event shall the Option be considered to have been exercised unless the per share exercise price of the Option is paid in full (or provided for in accordance with Section 1.3) for each of the shares to be acquired on such exercise and all required tax withholding obligations with respect to such exercise have been satisfied or provided for in accordance with Section 6 hereof. No fractional shares will be issued.
1.2
Method of Exercise
     . The exercise price shall be paid at the time of exercise. Payment may be made (a) in cash; (b) in the sole discretion of the Committee and on such terms and conditions as the Corporate Secretary of the Company may prescribe, either in whole or in part (i) by a reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable
1.3
Payment of Exercise Price
pursuant to the Option (valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of the Option) or (ii) in Common Stock of the Company (either actually or by attestation and valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of the Option; (c) in a combination of payments under clauses (a) and (b); or (d) pursuant to a cashless exercise arranged through a broker or other third party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may at any time (a) limit the ability of the Grantee to exercise the Option through any method other than a cash payment, or (b) require the Grantee to exercise, to the extent possible, the Option in the manner described in clauses (b)(i) and (b)(ii) of the preceding sentence.
     . The Option is not and shall not be deemed to be an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
1.4
Tax Status
     . The Option, to the extent not previously exercised, and all other rights in respect thereof, whether vested and exercisable or not, shall terminate and become null and void at the close of business on the last business day preceding the seventh (7) anniversary of the Grant Date (the "Expiration Date"). The Option, to the extent not previously exercised, and all other rights in respect thereof, whether vested and exercisable or not, shall terminate and become null and void prior to the Expiration Date if and when (a) the Option terminates in connection with a Change in Control pursuant to Section 5 below, or (b) except as provided below in this Section 2 and in Section 5, the Grantee ceases to be an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries.
2.1
General
th
     . If the Grantee ceases to be employed by the
2.2
Termination of Employment Due to Retirement
 
Company or one of its subsidiaries due to the Grantee's Early Retirement and such Early Retirement occurs more than six months after the Grant Date, the next succeeding vesting installment of the Option shall vest, and all installments under the Option which have vested may be exercised by the Grantee (or, in the event of the Grantee's death, by the Grantee's Successor) until the fifth anniversary of the Grantee's Early Retirement, but in no event after the Expiration Date. Any remaining unvested installments, after giving effect to the foregoing sentence, shall terminate immediately upon the Grantee's Early Retirement. If the Grantee ceases to be employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries due to the Grantee's Normal Retirement and such Normal Retirement occurs more than six months after the Grant Date, all remaining installments of the Option shall vest, and all installments under the Option may be exercised by the Grantee (or, in the event of the Grantee's death, by the Grantee's Successor) until the fifth anniversary of the Grantee's Normal Retirement, but in no event after the Expiration Date.
     In determining the Grantee's eligibility for Early or Normal Retirement, service is measured by dividing (a) the number of days the Grantee was employed by the Company or a subsidiary in the period commencing with his or her last date of hire by the Company or a subsidiary through and including the date on which the Grantee is last employed by the Company or a subsidiary, by (b) 365. If the Grantee ceased to be employed by the Company or a subsidiary and was later rehired by the Company or a subsidiary, the Grantee's service prior to the break in service shall be disregarded in determining service for such purposes; provided that, if the Grantee's employment with the Company or a subsidiary had terminated due to the Grantee's Early Retirement, Normal Retirement, or by the Company as part of a reduction in force (in each case, other than a termination by the Company or a subsidiary for cause) and, within the two-year period following such termination of employment (the "break in service") the Grantee was subsequently rehired by the Company or a subsidiary, then the Grantee's period of service with the Company or a subsidiary prior to and ending with the break in service will be included in determining service for such purposes. In the event the Grantee is employed by a business that is acquired by the Company or a subsidiary, the Company shall have discretion to determine whether the Grantee's service prior to the acquisition will be included in determining service for such purposes.
     . If the Grantee dies while employed by the Company or a subsidiary and such death occurs more than six months after the Grant Date, or if the Grantee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries terminates due to the Grantee's Disability and such termination occurs more than six months after the Grant
2.3
Termination of Employment Due to Death or Disability
Date, the next succeeding vesting installment of the Option shall vest, and all installments under the Option which have vested may be exercised by the Grantee (or, in the case of the Grantee's death, by the Grantee's Successor) until the fifth anniversary of the Grantee's death or Disability, whichever first occurs, but in no event after the Expiration Date. Any remaining unvested installments, after giving effect to the foregoing sentence, shall terminate immediately upon the Grantee's death or Disability, as applicable.
     . Subject to the following sentence, if the employment of the Grantee with the Company or a subsidiary is terminated for any reason other than the Grantee's Early or Normal Retirement, death, or Disability, or in the event of a termination of the Grantee's employment with the Company or a subsidiary on or before the six-month anniversary of the Grant Date due to the Grantee's Early or Normal Retirement, death, or Disability, the Option may be exercised (as to not more than the number of shares as to which the Grantee might have exercised the Option on the date on which his or her employment terminated) only within 90 days from the date of such termination of employment, but in no event after the Expiration Date; provided, however, that if the Grantee is dismissed by the Company or a subsidiary for cause, the Option shall expire forthwith. If the Grantee dies within 90 days after a termination of employment described in the preceding sentence (other than a termination by the Company or a subsidiary for cause), the Option may be exercised by the Grantee's Successor for one year from the date of the Grantee's death, but in no event after the Expiration Date and as to not more than the number of shares as to which the Grantee might have exercised the Option on the date on which his or her employment by the Company or a subsidiary terminated. For purposes of this Section 2 and prior to a Change in Control, the Company shall be the sole judge of "cause" unless such term is expressly defined in a written employment agreement by and between the Grantee and either the Company or one of its subsidiaries, in which case "cause" is used as defined in such employment agreement for purposes of this Section 2. Prior to a Change in Control, the definition of "Cause" in Section 10 does not apply for purposes of this Section 2. With respect to a termination of employment upon or following a Change in Control, the definition of "Cause" in Section 10 shall apply for purposes of this Section 2.
2.4
Other Terminations of Employment
     . Unless the Committee otherwise provides (at the time of the leave or otherwise), if the Grantee is granted a leave of absence by the Company, the Grantee (a) shall not be deemed to have incurred a termination of employment at the time such leave commences for purposes of the Option, and (b) shall be deemed to be employed by the Company for the duration of such approved leave of absence for purposes of the Option. A termination of employment
2.5
Leave of Absence
 
shall be deemed to have occurred if the Grantee does not timely return to active employment upon the expiration of such approved leave or if the Grantee commences a leave that is not approved by the Company.
     . Subject to Section 2.5 above, the term "employment" as used herein means active employment by the Company and salary continuation without active employment (other than a leave of absence approved by the Company and covered by Section 2.5) will not, in and of itself, constitute "employment" for purposes hereof (in the case of salary continuation without active employment, the Grantee's cessation of active employee status shall, subject to Section 2.5, be deemed to be a termination of "employment" for purposes hereof). Furthermore, salary continuation will not, in and of itself, constitute a leave of absence approved by the Company for purposes of the Option.
2.6
Salary Continuation
     . For purposes of the Option, a termination of employment of the Grantee shall be deemed to have occurred if the Grantee is employed by a subsidiary or business unit and that subsidiary or business unit is sold, spun off, or otherwise divested, the Grantee does not otherwise continue to be employed by the Company after such event, and the divested entity or business (or its successor or a parent company) does not assume the Option in connection with such transaction. In the event of such a termination of employment, the termination shall be deemed to be an Early Retirement unless the Grantee was otherwise eligible at the time of termination for Normal Retirement (in which case, the termination shall be considered a Normal Retirement).
2.7
Sale or Spinoff of Subsidiary or Business Unit
     . Except as expressly provided in Sections 2.2 and 2.3 above, and Section 5 below, the vesting of the Option requires continued employment through each vesting date as a condition to the vesting of the corresponding installment of the award. Employment before or between the specified vesting dates, even if substantial, will not entitle the Grantee to any proportionate vesting or avoid or mitigate a termination of rights and benefits upon or following a termination of employment. Nothing contained in these Terms, the Grant Letter, the Stock Plan System, or the Plan constitutes an employment commitment by the Company or any subsidiary, affects the Grantee's status (if the Grantee is otherwise an at-will employee) as an employee at will who is subject to termination without cause, confers upon the Grantee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary, or interferes in any way with the right of the Company or of any subsidiary to terminate such employment at any time.
2.8
Continuance of Employment Required
     . The Option is non-transferable and shall not be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, anticipation, alienation, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge. The foregoing transfer restrictions shall not apply to: (a) transfers to the Company; (b) transfers by will or the laws of descent and distribution; or (c) if the Grantee has suffered a disability, permitted transfers to or exercises on behalf of the holder by his or her legal representative. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may honor any transfer required pursuant to the terms of a court order in a divorce or similar domestic relations matter to the extent that such transfer does not adversely affect the Company's ability to register the offer and sale of the underlying shares on a Form S-8 Registration Statement and such transfer is otherwise in compliance with all applicable legal, regulatory and listing requirements.
3.1
Non-Transferability
     . Any payments or issuances of shares with respect to the Option are subject to recoupment pursuant to the Company's Policy Regarding the Recoupment of Certain Performance-Based Compensation Payments as in effect from time to time, as well as any recoupment or similar provisions of applicable law, and the Grantee shall promptly make any reimbursement requested by the Board or Committee pursuant to such policy or applicable law with respect to the Option. Further, the Grantee agrees, by accepting the Option, that the Company and its affiliates may deduct from any amounts it may owe the Grantee from time to time (such as wages or other compensation) to the extent of any amounts the Grantee is required to reimburse the Company pursuant to such policy or applicable law with respect to the Option.
3.2
Recoupment of Awards
     The Company's obligation to issue any shares with respect to the Option is subject to full compliance with all then applicable requirements of law, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commissioner of Corporations of the State of California, or other regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the Company and its shares, and of any exchanges upon which stock of the Company may be listed. The Grantee shall not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder with respect to shares subject to or purchased under the Option until the date appearing on the certificate(s) for such shares (or, in the case of shares entered in book entry form, the date that the shares are actually recorded in such form for the benefit of the Grantee) issued upon the exercise of the Option.
 
     . The number, type and price of shares subject to the Option, as well as the per share exercise price of the Option, are subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of events such as stock splits, stock dividends and other changes in capitalization in accordance with Section 6(a) of the Plan. In the event of any adjustment, the Company will give the Grantee written notice thereof which will set forth the nature of the adjustment.
5.1
Adjustments
     . Notwithstanding the acceleration provisions of Section 2 hereof but subject to the limited exercise periods set forth therein, and further subject to the Company's ability to terminate the Option as provided in Section 5.3 below, the outstanding and previously unvested portion of the Option shall become fully exercisable as of the date of the Grantee's termination of employment as follows:
5.2
Possible Acceleration on Change in Control
     Notwithstanding anything else contained herein to the contrary, the termination of the Grantee's employment (or other events giving rise to Good Reason) shall not entitle the Grantee to any accelerated vesting pursuant to clause (b) above if there is objective evidence that, as of the commencement of the Protected Period, the Grantee had specifically been identified by the Company as an employee whose employment would be terminated as part of a corporate restructuring or downsizing program that commenced prior to the Protected Period and such termination of employment was expected at that time to occur within six (6) months. The applicable Change in Control Severance Arrangement shall govern the matters addressed in this paragraph as to clause (a) above.
     . If the Company undergoes a Change in Control triggered by clause (iii) or (iv) of the definition thereof and the Company is not the surviving entity and the successor to the Company (if any) (or a Parent thereof) does not agree in writing prior to the occurrence of the Change in Control to continue and assume the Option following the Change in Control, or if for any other reason the Option would not continue after the Change in Control, then upon the Change in Control the outstanding and previously unvested portion of the Option shall vest fully and completely, any and all restrictions on exercisability or otherwise shall lapse, and it shall be fully exercisable. Unless the Committee expressly provides otherwise in the circumstances, no acceleration of vesting or exercisability of the Option shall occur pursuant to this Section 5.3 in connection with a Change in Control if either (a) the Company is the surviving entity, or (b) the successor to the Company (if any) (or a Parent thereof) agrees in writing prior to the Change in Control to assume the Option. If the Option is fully vested or becomes fully vested as provided in this Section 5.3 but is not exercised prior to a Change in Control triggered by clause (iii) or (iv) of the definition thereof and the Company is not the surviving entity and the successor to the Company (if any) (or a Parent thereof) does not agree in writing prior to the occurrence of the Change in Control to continue and assume the Option following the Change in Control, or if for any other reason the Option would not continue after the Change in Control, then the Committee may provide for the settlement in cash of the award (such settlement to be calculated as though the Option was exercised simultaneously with the Change in Control and based upon the then Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock). The Option, if so settled by the Committee, shall automatically terminate. If, in such circumstances, the Committee does not provide for the cash settlement of the Option, then upon the Change in Control the Option shall terminate, subject to any provision that has been made by the Committee through a plan of reorganization or otherwise for the survival, substitution or exchange of the Option; provided that the Grantee shall be given reasonable notice of such intended termination and an opportunity to exercise the Option prior to or upon the Change in Control. The Committee may make adjustments pursuant to Section 6(a) of the Plan and/or deem an acceleration of vesting of the Option pursuant to this Section 5.3 to occur sufficiently prior to an event if necessary or deemed appropriate to permit the Grantee to realize the benefits intended to be conveyed with respect to the shares underlying the Option; provided, however, that, the Committee may reinstate the original terms of the Option if the related event does not actually occur. The provisions in this Section 5.3 for the early termination of the Option in connection with a Change in Control of the Company supercede any other provision hereof that would otherwise allow for a longer Option term.
5.3
Automatic Acceleration; Early Termination
 
     . The Company or the subsidiary which employs the Grantee shall be entitled to require, as a condition of issuing shares upon exercise of the Option, that the Grantee or other person exercising the Option pay any sums required to be withheld by federal, state or local tax law with respect to such vesting or payment. Alternatively, the Company or such subsidiary, in its discretion, may make such provisions for the withholding of taxes as it deems appropriate (including, without limitation, withholding the taxes due from compensation otherwise payable to the Grantee or reducing the number of shares otherwise deliverable with respect to the Option (valued at their then Fair Market Value) by the amount necessary to satisfy such withholding obligations at the flat percentage rates applicable to supplemental wages).
6.1
Tax Withholding
     . The Company will pay all federal and state transfer taxes, if any, and other fees and expenses in connection with the issuance of shares in connection with the vesting of the Option.
6.2
Transfer Taxes
     The Committee has the discretionary authority to determine any questions as to the date when the Grantee's employment terminated and the cause of such termination and to interpret any provision of these Terms, the Grant Letter, the Stock Plan System, the Plan, and any other applicable rules. Any action taken by, or inaction of, the Committee relating to or pursuant to these Terms, the Grant Letter, the Stock Plan System, the Plan, or any other applicable rules shall be within the absolute discretion of the Committee and shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
     The Option is governed by, and the Grantee's rights are subject to, all of the terms and conditions of the Plan and any other rules adopted by the Committee, as the foregoing may be amended from time to time. The Grantee shall have no rights with respect to any amendment of these Terms or the Plan unless such amendment is in writing and signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Grant Letter and/or the Stock Plan System and the provisions of these Terms and/or the Plan, the provisions of these Terms and/or the Plan, as applicable, shall control.
     The holding requirements of this Section 9 shall apply to any Grantee who is an elected or appointed officer of the Company on any date the Option is exercised (or, if earlier, on the date the Grantee's
employment by the Company and its subsidiaries terminates for any reason). Any Grantee subject to this Section 9 shall not be permitted to sell, transfer, anticipate, alienate, assign, pledge, encumber or charge 50% of the total number of shares of Common Stock the Grantee receives upon any exercise of the Option until the earlier of (A) the third anniversary of the date of exercise, or (B) the date of the Grantee's death or Disability. Should the Grantee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries terminate (regardless of the reason for such termination, but other than due to the Grantee's death or Disability), such holding period requirement shall not apply as to any shares acquired upon exercise of the Option to the extent the Option remains exercisable for more than one year after such termination of employment and such exercise actually occurs more than one year after such termination of employment. (For purposes of clarity, in such circumstances the holding period requirement will apply as to any shares acquired upon exercise of the Option within one year after such a termination of employment.) For purposes of this Section 9, the total number of shares of Common Stock the Grantee receives upon exercise shall be determined on a net basis after taking into account any shares otherwise deliverable with respect to the Option that the Company withholds (or that are sold through a broker in a cashless exercise of the Option, as the case may be) to satisfy the exercise price of the Option or tax obligations pursuant to Section 6.1. Any shares of Common Stock received in respect of shares that are covered by the holding period requirements of this Section 9 (such as shares received in respect of a stock split or stock dividend) shall be subject to the same holding period requirements as the shares to which they relate.
     Whenever used in these Terms, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:
     "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
     "" means the occurrence of either or both of the following:
Cause
 
     "" is used as defined in the Plan.
Change in Control
     "" means a "Special Agreement" entered into by and between the Grantee and the Company that provides severance protections in the event of certain changes in control of the Company or the Company's Change-in-Control Severance Plan, as each may be in effect from time to time, or any similar successor agreement or plan that provides severance protections in the event of a change in control of the Company.
Change in Control Severance Arrangement
     "" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     "" means the Company's Compensation Committee or any successor committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.
Committee
     "" means disabled pursuant to the provisions of the Company's (or one of its subsidiary's) Long Term Disability Plan applicable to the Grantee; or, if the Grantee is not covered by such a Long Term Disability Plan, the incapacity of the Grantee, due to injury, illness, disease, or bodily or mental infirmity, to engage in the performance of substantially all of the usual duties of employment with the Company or the subsidiary which employs the Grantee, such disability to be determined by the Committee upon receipt and in reliance on competent medical advice from one or more individuals, selected by the Committee, who are qualified to give such professional medical advice.
Disability
     "" means that the Grantee's employment terminates in any of the following circumstances, and other than a termination of employment that constitutes a Normal Retirement or occurs in connection with a termination by the Company or a subsidiary for cause:
Early Retirement
In the case of a Grantee who is an officer of the Company subject to the Company's mandatory retirement at age 65 policy and who, at the applicable time, is not otherwise eligible for Early Retirement as defined in the preceding sentence or for Normal Retirement, "Early Retirement" as to that Grantee means that the Grantee's employment is terminated pursuant to such mandatory retirement policy (regardless of the Grantee's years of service and other than in connection with a termination by the Company or a subsidiary for cause).
     "" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
     "" is used as defined in the Plan; provided, however, the Committee in determining such Fair Market Value for purposes of the Option may utilize such other exchange, market, or listing as it deems appropriate. For purposes of a cashless exercise, the Fair Market Value of the shares shall be the price at which the shares in payment of the exercise price are sold.
Fair Market Value
     "" means, without the Grantee's express written consent, the occurrence of any one or more of the following:
Good Reason
 
     The Grantee's right to terminate employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Grantee's incapacity due to physical or mental illness. The Grantee's continued employment shall not constitute a consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any circumstances constituting Good Reason herein.
     "" means the date that the Committee approved the grant of the Option.
Grant Date
     "" means that the Grantee terminates employment after attaining age 65 with at least 10 years of service (other than in connection with a termination by the Company or a subsidiary for cause).
Normal Retirement
     "" is used as defined in the Plan.
Parent
     "" means the Northrop Grumman 2001 Long-Term Incentive Stock Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.
Plan
     The "" corresponding to a Change in Control of the Company shall be a period of time determined in accordance with the following:
Protected Period
 
     "" means the person acquiring a Grantee's rights to a grant under the Plan by will or by the laws of descent or distribution.
Successor

Exhibit 10.2
     These Terms and Conditions ("Terms") apply to certain "Restricted Performance Stock Rights" ("RPSRs") granted by Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") in 2011. If you were granted an RPSR award by the Company in 2011, the date of grant of your RPSR award and the target number of RPSRs applicable to your award are set forth in the letter from the Company announcing your RPSR award grant (your "Grant Letter") and are also reflected in the electronic stock plan award recordkeeping system ("Stock Plan System") maintained by the Company or its designee. These Terms apply only with respect to your 2011 RPSR award. If you were granted an RPSR award, you are referred to as the "Grantee" with respect to your award. Capitalized terms are generally defined in Section 10 below if not otherwise defined herein.
     Each RPSR represents a right to receive one share of the Company's Common Stock, or cash of equivalent value as provided herein, subject to vesting as provided herein. The performance period applicable to your award is January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2013 (the "Performance Period"). The target number of RPSRs subject to your award is subject to adjustment as provided herein. The RPSR award is subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in these Terms, and is further subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, as it may be amended from time to time, and any rules adopted by the Committee, as such rules are in effect from time to time.
     The RPSRs are subject to the vesting and payment provisions established (or to be established, as the case may be) by the Committee with respect to the Performance Period. RPSRs that vest based on such provisions will be paid as provided below. No fractional shares will be issued.
     . At the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Committee shall determine whether and the extent to which the applicable performance criteria have been achieved for purposes of determining earnouts and RPSR payments. Based on its determination, the Committee shall determine the percentage of target RPSRs subject to the award (if any) that have vested for the Performance Period in accordance with the earnout schedule established (or to be established, as the case may be) by the Committee with respect to the Performance Period (the "Earnout Percentage"). Any RPSRs subject to the award that are not vested as of the conclusion of the Performance Period after giving effect to the Committee's determinations under this Section 1.1 shall terminate and become null and void immediately following such determinations.
1.1
Performance-Based Vesting of RPSRs
     . The number of RPSRs payable at the conclusion of the Performance Period ("Earned RPSRs") shall be determined by multiplying the Earnout Percentage by the target number of RPSRs subject to the award. The Earned RPSRs may be paid out in either an equivalent number of shares of Common Stock, or, in the discretion of the Committee, in cash or in a combination of shares of Common Stock and cash. In the event of a cash payment, the amount of the
1.2
Payment of RPSRs
payment for each Earned RPSR to be paid in cash will equal the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock as of the date the Committee determines the extent to which the applicable RPSR performance criteria have been achieved. RPSRs will be paid in the calendar year following the calendar year containing the last day of the Performance Period (and generally will be paid in the first 75 days of such year).
     . The RPSRs subject to the award shall terminate and become null and void prior to the conclusion of the Performance Period if and when (a) the award terminates in connection with a Change in Control pursuant to Section 5 below, or (b) except as provided below in this Section 2 and in Section 5, the Grantee ceases for any reason to be an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries.
2.1
General
     . The number of RPSRs subject to the award shall vest on a prorated basis as provided herein if the Grantee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries terminates due to the Grantee's Retirement, death, or Disability , in each case, only if the Grantee has completed at least six (6) consecutive calendar months of employment with the Company or a subsidiary during the three-year Performance Period. Such prorating of RPSRs shall be based on the number of full months the Grantee was actually employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries out of the thirty-six month Performance Period. Partial months of employment during the Performance Period, even if substantial, shall not be
2.2
Termination of Employment Due to Retirement, Death or Disability
and
 
counted for purposes of prorated vesting. Any RPSRs subject to the award that do not vest in accordance with this Section 2.2 upon a termination of the Grantee's employment due to Retirement, death or Disability shall terminate immediately upon such termination of employment.
     . In the case of death or Disability (a) the Performance Period used to calculate the Grantee's Earned RPSRs will be deemed to have ended as of the most recent date that performance has been measured by the Company with respect to the RPSRs (but in no event shall such date be more than one year before the Grantee's termination of employment), (b) the Earnout Percentage of the Grantee's RPSRs will be determined based on actual performance for that short Performance Period, and (c) payment of Earned RPSRs will be made in the calendar year containing the 75 day following the date of the Grantee's death or Disability (and generally will be paid on or about such 75 day).
Death or Disability
th
th
     . Subject to the following provisions of this Section 2.2, in the case of Retirement, (a) the entire Performance Period will be used to calculate the Grantee's Earned RPSRs, (b) the Earnout Percentage of the Grantee's RPSRs will be determined based on actual performance for the Performance Period, and (c) payment of Earned RPSRs will be made in the calendar year following the calendar year containing the last day of the Performance Period (and generally will be paid in the first 75 days of such year).
Retirement in General
     In determining the Grantee's eligibility for Retirement, service is measured by dividing (a) the number of days the Grantee was employed by the Company or a subsidiary in the period commencing with his or her last date of hire by the Company or a subsidiary through and including the date on which the Grantee is last employed by the Company or a subsidiary, by (b) 365. If the Grantee ceased to be employed by the Company or a subsidiary and was later rehired by the Company or a subsidiary, the Grantee's service prior to the break in service shall be disregarded in determining service for such purposes; provided that, if the Grantee's employment with the Company or a subsidiary had terminated due to the Grantee's Retirement, or by the Company or a subsidiary as part of a reduction in force (in each case, other than a termination by the Company or a subsidiary for cause) and, within the two-year period following such termination of employment (the "break in service") the Grantee was subsequently rehired by the Company or a subsidiary, then the Grantee's period of service with the Company or a subsidiary prior to and ending with the break in service will be included in determining service for such purposes. In the event the Grantee is employed by a business that is acquired by the Company or a subsidiary, the Company shall have discretion to
determine whether the Grantee's service prior to the acquisition will be included in determining service for such purposes.
     In the case of a Governmental Service Retirement by the Grantee (a) the Performance Period used to calculate the Grantee's Earned RPSRs will be deemed to have ended as of the most recent date that performance has been measured by the Company with respect to the RPSRs prior to the Grantee's Retirement (but in no event shall such date be more than one year before the Grantee's Retirement), (b) the Earnout Percentage of the Grantee's RPSRs will be determined based on actual performance for that short Performance Period, and (c) payment of Earned RPSRs will be made within 10 days after Retirement.
Retirement Due to Government Service.
     . Subject to Section 5.2, all RPSRs subject to the award terminate immediately upon a termination of the Grantee's employment: (a) for any reason other than due to the Grantee's Retirement, death or Disability; or (b) for Retirement, death or Disability, if the six-month employment requirement under Section 2.2 above is not satisfied.
2.3
Other Terminations of Employment
     . Unless the Committee otherwise provides (at the time of the leave or otherwise), if the Grantee is granted a leave of absence by the Company, the Grantee (a) shall not be deemed to have incurred a termination of employment at the time such leave commences for purposes of the award, and (b) shall be deemed to be employed by the Company for the duration of such approved leave of absence for purposes of the award. A termination of employment shall be deemed to have occurred if the Grantee does not timely return to active employment upon the expiration of such approved leave or if the Grantee commences a leave that is not approved by the Company.
2.4
Leave of Absence
     . Subject to Section 2.4 above, the term "employment" as used herein means active employment by the Company and salary continuation without active employment (other than a leave of absence approved by the Company that is covered by Section 2.4) will not, in and of itself, constitute "employment" for purposes hereof (in the case of salary continuation without active employment, the Grantee's cessation of active employee status shall, subject to Section 2.4, be deemed to be a termination of "employment" for purposes hereof). Furthermore, salary continuation will not, in and of itself, constitute a leave of absence approved by the Company for purposes of the award.
2.5
Salary Continuation
     . For purposes of the RPSRs subject to the award, a termination of employment of the Grantee shall be deemed to have occurred if the Grantee is employed by a
2.6
Sale or Spinoff of Subsidiary or Business Unit
 
subsidiary or business unit and that subsidiary or business unit is sold, spun off, or otherwise divested, the Grantee does not otherwise continue to be employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries after such event, and the divested entity or business (or its successor or a parent company) does not assume the award in connection with such transaction. In the event of such a termination of employment, the termination shall be deemed to be a Retirement treated as provided for in Section 2.2 (subject to Section 5).
     . Except as expressly provided in Sections 2.2 and 2.4 above and in Section 5 below, the vesting of the RPSRs subject to the award requires continued employment through the last day of the Performance Period as a condition of the payment of such RPSRs. Employment for only a portion of the Performance Period, even if a substantial portion, will not entitle the Grantee to any proportionate vesting or avoid or mitigate a termination of rights and benefits upon or following a termination of employment. Nothing contained in these Terms, the Grant Letter, the Stock Plan System, or the Plan constitutes an employment commitment by the Company or any subsidiary, affects the Grantee's status (if the Grantee is otherwise an at-will employee) as an employee at will who is subject to termination without cause, confers upon the Grantee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary, or interferes in any way with the right of the Company or of any subsidiary to terminate such employment at any time.
2.7
Continuance of Employment Required
     . In the event of the Grantee's death subsequent to the vesting of RPSRs but prior to the delivery of shares or other payment with respect to such RPSRs, the Grantee's Successor shall be entitled to any payments to which the Grantee would have been entitled under this Agreement with respect to such RPSRs.
2.8
Death
     . The award, as well as the RPSRs subject to the award, are non-transferable and shall not be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, anticipation, alienation, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge. The foregoing transfer restrictions shall not apply to transfers to the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may honor any transfer required pursuant to the terms of a court order in a divorce or similar domestic relations matter to the extent that such transfer does not adversely affect the Company's ability to register the offer and sale of the underlying shares on a Form S-8 Registration Statement and such transfer is otherwise in compliance with all applicable legal, regulatory and listing requirements.
3.1
Non-Transferability
     . Any payments or issuances of shares with respect to the award are subject
3.2
Recoupment of Awards
to recoupment pursuant to the Company's Policy Regarding the Recoupment of Certain Performance-Based Compensation Payments as in effect from time to time as well as any recoupment or similar provisions of applicable law, and the Grantee shall promptly make any reimbursement requested by the Board or Committee pursuant to such policy or applicable law with respect to the award. Further, the Grantee agrees, by accepting the award, that the Company and its affiliates may deduct from any amounts it may owe the Grantee from time to time (such as wages or other compensation) to the extent of any amounts the Grantee is required to reimburse the Company pursuant to such policy or applicable law with respect to the award.
     The Company's obligation to make any payments or issue any shares with respect to the award is subject to full compliance with all then applicable requirements of law, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commissioner of Corporations of the State of California, or other regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the Company and its shares, and of any exchange upon which stock of the Company may be listed. The Grantee shall not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder, including without limitation the right to vote or receive dividends, with respect to any shares which may be issued in respect of the RPSRs until the date appearing on the certificate(s) for such shares (or, in the case of shares entered in book entry form, the date that the shares are actually recorded in such form for the benefit of the Grantee), if such shares become deliverable.
     . The RPSRs and the shares subject to the award are subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of events such as stock splits, stock dividends and other changes in capitalization in accordance with Section 6(a) of the Plan. In addition, for RPSRs that do not use a relative total shareholder return metric as the applicable performance criterion, the Committee shall adjust the applicable performance criteria to eliminate the effects of the gain, loss, income or expense or other extraordinary items resulting from (i) changes in accounting principles that become effective during the Performance Period, (ii) the purchase or disposition of a business during the Performance Period, and (iii) extraordinary charges not foreseen at the date of grant of the RPSRs, provided that the Committee shall have the discretion not to make any such adjustment if not making such adjustment would result in a reduction in the number of Earned RPSRs. In the event of any adjustment, the Company will give the Grantee written notice thereof which will set forth the nature of the adjustment.
5.1
Adjustments
 
     . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2 hereof, and further subject to the Company's ability to terminate the award as provided in Section 5.3 below, the Grantee shall be entitled to vesting of the award as provided below in the event of the Grantee's termination of employment in the following circumstances:
5.2
Possible Acceleration on Change in Control
     Notwithstanding anything else contained herein to the contrary, the termination of the Grantee's employment (or other events giving rise to Good Reason) shall not entitle the Grantee to any accelerated vesting pursuant to clause (b) above if there is objective evidence that, as of the commencement of the Protected Period, the Grantee had specifically been identified by the Company as an employee whose employment would be terminated as part of a corporate restructuring or downsizing program that commenced prior to the Protected Period and such termination of employment was expected at that time to occur within six (6) months. The applicable Change in Control Severance Arrangement shall govern the matters addressed in this paragraph as to clause (a) above.
In the event the Grantee is entitled to payment in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.2, then the Grantee will be eligible for payment of a number of RPSRs determined in accordance with the following formula: (a) the Earnout Percentage determined in accordance with Section 1 but calculated based on performance for the portion of the three-year Performance Period ending on the last day of the month coinciding with or immediately preceding the date of the termination of the Grantee's employment, multiplied by (b) the target number of RPSRs subject to the award. Payment of any amount due under this Section 5.2 will
be made in the calendar year following the calendar year containing the last day of the Performance Period (and generally will be paid in the first 75 days of such year) unless: (i) the Grantee dies or has a Disability, in which case such payment will be made in the calendar year containing the 75 day following the date of the Grantee's death or Disability, as the case may be (and generally will be paid on or about such 75 day), or (ii) a Governmental Service Retirement by the Grantee, in which case payment will be made within 10 days after Retirement. In the event the Grantee is entitled to payment in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.2, then this Section 5.2 shall control as to the amount and timing of the payment of the award notwithstanding anything in Section 2.2 to the contrary.
th
th
     . If the Company undergoes a Change in Control triggered by clause (iii) or (iv) of the definition thereof and the Company is not the surviving entity and the successor to the Company (if any) (or a Parent thereof) does not agree in writing prior to the occurrence of the Change in Control to continue and assume the award following the Change in Control, or if for any other reason the award would not continue after the Change in Control, then upon the Change in Control the Grantee shall be entitled to a payment of the RPSRs as provided below and the award shall terminate. Unless the Committee expressly provides otherwise in the circumstances, no acceleration of vesting of the award shall occur pursuant to this Section 5.3 in connection with a Change in Control if either (a) the Company is the surviving entity, or (b) the successor to the Company (if any) (or a Parent thereof) agrees in writing prior to the Change in Control to assume the award. The Committee may make adjustments pursuant to Section 6(a) of the Plan and/or deem an acceleration of vesting of the award pursuant to this Section 5.3 to occur sufficiently prior to an event if necessary or deemed appropriate to permit the Grantee to realize the benefits intended to be conveyed with respect to the shares underlying the award; provided, however, that, the Committee may reinstate the original terms of the award if the related event does not actually occur.
5.3
Automatic Acceleration; Early Termination
     In the event the Grantee is entitled to a payment in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.3, then the Grantee will be eligible for payment of a number of RPSRs determined in accordance with the following formula: (a) the Earnout Percentage determined in accordance with Section 1 but calculated based on performance for the portion of the three-year Performance Period ending on the date of the Change in Control of the Company, multiplied by (b) the target number of RPSRs subject to the award. Payment of any amount due under this Section 5.3 will be made in the calendar year following the calendar year containing the last day of the Performance Period (and generally will be paid in the first 75 days of such year) unless: (i) the
 
Grantee dies or has a Disability, in which case such payment will be made in the calendar year containing the 75 day following the date of the Grantee's death or Disability, as the case may be (and generally will be paid on or about such 75 day), or (ii) a Governmental Service Retirement by the Grantee, in which case payment will be made within 10 days after Retirement. In the event the Grantee is employed by the Company or a subsidiary immediately prior to the Change in Control and is entitled to payment in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.3, then this Section 5.3 shall control as to the amount and timing of the payment of the award notwithstanding anything in Section 2.2 or 5.2 to the contrary. In the event of the Grantee's Retirement pursuant to Section 2.2 prior to a Change in Control described in the first paragraph of this Section 5.3 in which the award is to be terminated, the Earnout Percentage shall no longer be based on the portion of the Performance Period otherwise considered for purposes of Section 2.2 but shall instead be calculated based on performance for the portion of the three-year Performance Period ending on the date of the Change in Control of the Company.
th
th
     . The Company or the subsidiary which employs the Grantee shall be entitled to require, as a condition of making any payments or issuing any shares upon vesting of the RPSRs, that the Grantee or other person entitled to such shares or other payment pay any sums required to be withheld by federal, state, local or other applicable tax law with respect to such vesting or payment. Alternatively, the Company or such subsidiary, in its discretion, may make such provisions for the withholding of taxes as it deems appropriate (including, without limitation, withholding the taxes due from compensation otherwise payable to the Grantee or reducing the number of shares otherwise deliverable with respect to the award (valued at their then Fair Market Value) by the amount necessary to satisfy such withholding obligations).
6.1
Tax Withholding
     . The Company will pay all federal and state transfer taxes, if any, and other fees and expenses in connection with the issuance of shares in connection with the vesting of the RPSRs.
6.2
Transfer Taxes
     . The Committee shall administer and construe the award, and may amend the Terms of the award, in a manner designed to comply with the Code and to avoid adverse tax consequences under Code Section 409A or otherwise.
6.3
Compliance with Code
     . The right of the Grantee to receive payment under the award shall be an unsecured contractual claim against the Company. As such, neither the Grantee nor any Successor shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the
6.4
Unfunded Arrangement
Company based on the award. Awards shall at all times be considered entirely unfunded for tax purposes.
     The Committee has the discretionary authority to determine any questions as to the date when the Grantee's employment terminated and the cause of such termination and to interpret any provision of these Terms, the Grant Letter, the Stock Plan System, the Plan, and any other applicable rules. Any action taken by, or inaction of, the Committee relating to or pursuant to these Terms, the Grant Letter, the Stock Plan System, the Plan, or any other applicable rules shall be within the absolute discretion of the Committee and shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
     The RPSRs subject to the award are governed by, and the Grantee's rights are subject to, all of the terms and conditions of the Plan and any other rules adopted by the Committee, as the foregoing may be amended from time to time. The Grantee shall have no rights with respect to any amendment of these Terms or the Plan unless such amendment is in writing and signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Grant Letter and/or the Stock Plan System and the provisions of these Terms and/or the Plan, the provisions of these Terms and/or the Plan, as applicable, shall control.
 
     The holding requirements of this Section 9 shall apply to any Grantee who is an elected or appointed officer of the Company on the date Earned RPSRs are paid (or, if earlier, on the date the Grantee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries terminates for any reason). Any Grantee subject to this Section 9 shall not be permitted to sell, transfer, anticipate, alienate, assign, pledge, encumber or charge 50% of the total number (if any) of shares of Common Stock the Grantee receives as payment for Earned RPSRs until the earlier of (A) the third anniversary of the date such shares of Common Stock are paid to the Grantee, or (B) the date the Grantee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries terminates due to the Grantee's death or Disability. Should the Grantee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries terminate (regardless of the reason for such termination, but other than due to the Grantee's death or Disability), such holding period requirement shall not apply as to any shares acquired upon payment of Earned RPSRs to the extent such payment is made more than one year after such termination of employment. (For purposes of clarity, in such circumstances the holding period requirement will apply as to any shares acquired upon payment of Earned RPSRs within one year after such a termination of employment.) For purposes of this Section 9, the total number of shares of Common Stock the Grantee receives as payment for Earned RPSRs shall be determined on a net basis after taking into account any shares otherwise deliverable with respect to the award that the Company withholds to satisfy tax obligations pursuant to Section 6.1. Any shares of Common Stock received in respect of shares that are covered by the holding period requirements of this Section 9 (such as shares received in respect of a stock split or stock dividend) shall be subject to the same holding period requirements as the shares to which they relate.
     Whenever used in these Terms, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:
     "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
     "" means the occurrence of either or both of the following:
Cause
     "" is used as defined in the Plan.
Change in Control
     "" means a "Special Agreement" entered into by and between the Grantee and the Company that provides severance protections in the event of certain changes in control of the Company or the Company's Change-in-Control Severance Plan, as each may be in effect from time to time, or any similar successor agreement or plan that provides severance protections in the event of a change in control of the Company.
Change in Control Severance Arrangement
     "" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     "" means the Company's Compensation Committee or any successor committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.
Committee
     "" means the Company's common stock.
Common Stock
     "" means, with respect to a Grantee, that the Grantee: (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months; or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Grantee's employer; all construed and interpreted consistent with the definition of "Disability" set forth in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(C).
Disability
     "" is used as defined in the Plan; provided, however, the Committee in determining such Fair Market Value for purposes of the award may utilize such other exchange, market, or listing as it deems appropriate.
Fair Market Value
     "" means, without the Grantee's express written consent, the occurrence of any one or more of the following:
Good Reason
 
     The Grantee's right to terminate employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Grantee's incapacity due to physical or mental illness. The Grantee's continued employment shall not constitute a consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any circumstances constituting Good Reason herein.
     "" means a Retirement by the Grantee where the Grantee accepts a position in the federal government or a state or local government and an accelerated distribution under the award is permitted under Code Section 409A based on such government employment and related ethics rules.
Governmental Service Retirement
     "" is used as defined in the Plan.
Parent
     "" means the Northrop Grumman 2001 Long-Term Incentive Stock Plan, as it may be amended form time to time.
Plan
     The "" corresponding to a Change in Control of the Company shall be a period of time determined in accordance with the following:
Protected Period
 
     "" or "" means that the Grantee's employment terminates in any of the following circumstances and other than in connection with a termination by the Company or a subsidiary for cause:
Retirement
Retire
In the case of a Grantee who is an officer of the Company subject to the Company's mandatory retirement at age 65 policy, "Retirement" or "Retire" shall also include as to that Grantee (without limiting the Grantee's ability to Retire pursuant to the preceding sentence) a termination of the Grantee's employment pursuant to such mandatory retirement policy (regardless of the Grantee's years of service and other than in connection with a termination by the Company or a subsidiary for cause).
     "" means the person acquiring a Grantee's rights to a grant under the Plan by will or by the laws of descent or distribution.
Successor

Exhibit 10.3
     These Terms and Conditions ("Terms") apply to certain "Restricted Stock Rights" ("RSRs") granted by Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") to ________in 2011. The date of grant of the RSR award is ________, 2011(the "Grant Date"). The number of RSRs applicable to the award is ________. The date of grant and number of RSRs are also reflected in the electronic stock plan award recordkeeping system ("Stock Plan System") maintained by the Company or its designee. These Terms apply only with respect to the 2011 RSR award identified above. You are referred to as the "Grantee" with respect to your award. Capitalized terms are generally defined in Section 10 below if not otherwise defined herein.
[
]
[
]
[
]
     Each RSR represents a right to receive one share of the Company's Common Stock, or cash of equivalent value as provided herein, subject to vesting as provided herein. The number of RSRs subject to your award is subject to adjustment as provided herein. The RSR award is subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in these Terms, and is further subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, as it may be amended from time to time, and any rules adopted by the Committee, as such rules are in effect from time to time.
     Subject to Sections 2 and 5 below, one hundred percent (100%) of the number of RSRs subject to your award (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.1) shall vest upon the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date.
     Except as otherwise provided below, the Company shall pay a vested RSR within 90 days following the vesting of the RSR on the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date. The Company shall pay such vested RSRs in either an equivalent number of shares of Common Stock, or, in the discretion of the Committee, in cash or in a combination of shares of Common Stock and cash. In the event of a cash payment, the amount of the payment for vested RSR to be paid in cash (subject to tax withholding as provided in Section 6 below) will equal the Fair Market Value (as defined below) of a share of Common Stock as of the date that such RSR became vested. No fractional shares will be issued.
     . The RSRs subject to the award, to the extent not previously vested, shall terminate and become null and void if and when (a) the award terminates in connection with a Change in Control pursuant to Section 5 below, or (b) except as provided in Sections 2.6 and 2.7, and in Section 5, the Grantee ceases for any reason to be an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries.
2.1
General
     . Unless the Committee otherwise provides (at the time of the leave or otherwise), if the Grantee is granted a leave of absence by the Company, the Grantee (a) shall not be deemed to have incurred a termination of employment at the time
2.2
Leave of Absence
such leave commences for purposes of the award, and (b) shall be deemed to be employed by the Company for the duration of such approved leave of absence for purposes of the award. A termination of employment shall be deemed to have occurred if the Grantee does not timely return to active employment upon the expiration of such approved leave or if the Grantee commences a leave that is not approved by the Company.
     . Subject to Section 2.2 above, the term "employment" as used herein means active employment by the Company and salary continuation without active employment (other than a leave of absence approved by the Company that is covered by Section 2.2) will not, in and of itself, constitute "employment" for purposes hereof (in the case of salary continuation without active employment, the Grantee's cessation of active employee status shall, subject to Section 2.2, be deemed to be a termination of "employment" for purposes hereof). Furthermore, salary continuation will not, in and of itself, constitute a leave of absence approved by the Company for purposes of the award.
2.3
Salary Continuation
     . For purposes of the RSRs subject to the award, a termination of employment of the Grantee shall be deemed to have occurred if the Grantee is employed by a subsidiary or business unit and that subsidiary or business unit is sold, spun off, or otherwise divested, the Grantee does not otherwise continue to be employed by the Company after such event, and the divested entity or business (or its successor or a parent company) does not assume the award in connection with such transaction. In the event of such a termination of employment, the termination shall be deemed to be an Early Retirement unless the Grantee was otherwise eligible at the time of termination for Normal Retirement (in which case, the
2.4
Sale or Spinoff of Subsidiary or Business Unit
 
termination shall be considered a Normal Retirement) treated as provided for in Section 2.7 (subject to Section 5).
     . Except as expressly provided in Section 2.6 and in Section 5, the vesting of the RSRs subject to the award requires continued employment through the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date as a condition to the vesting of any portion of the award. Employment for only a portion of the vesting period, even if a substantial portion, will not entitle the Grantee to any proportionate vesting or avoid or mitigate a termination of rights and benefits upon or following a termination of employment. Nothing contained in these Terms, the Stock Plan System, or the Plan constitutes an employment commitment by the Company or any subsidiary, affects the Grantee's status (if the Grantee is otherwise an at-will employee) as an employee at will who is subject to termination without cause, confers upon the Grantee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary, or interferes in any way with the right of the Company or of any subsidiary to terminate such employment at any time.
2.5
Continuance of Employment Required
     . If the Grantee dies or incurs a Disability while employed by the Company or a subsidiary, the outstanding and previously unvested RSRs subject to the award shall vest as of the date of the Grantee's death or Disability, as applicable. RSRs vesting under this Section shall be paid in the calendar year containing the 75 day (and generally will be paid on or about such 75 day) following the earlier of (a) Grantee's death or (b) Grantee's Disability. In the event of the Grantee's death prior to the delivery of shares or other payment with respect to any vested RSRs, the Grantee's Successor shall be entitled to any payments to which the Grantee would have been entitled under this Agreement with respect to such vested and unpaid RSRs.
2.6
Death or Disability
th
th
     . If the Grantee ceases to be employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries due to the Grantee's Early Retirement and such Early Retirement occurs more than six months after the Grant Date, the RSRs subject to the award shall vest on a prorated basis. Such prorating of RSRs shall be determined based on the number of days the Grantee was employed by the Company or a subsidiary in the period commencing with the Grant Date through and including the date on which the Grantee is last employed by the Company or a subsidiary, over the number of calendar days in the period commencing with the Grant Date through and including the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date. Any remaining unvested RSRs, after giving effect to the foregoing acceleration of vesting, shall terminate immediately upon the Grantee's Early Retirement. If the Grantee ceases to be employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries due to the Grantee's Normal Retirement and such Normal
2.7
Termination of Employment Due to Retirement
Retirement occurs more than six months after the Grant Date, the RSRs subject to the award shall vest in full.
     Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, RSRs vesting under this Section shall be paid in the calendar year containing the 75 day (and generally will be paid on or about such 75 day) following the Grantee's Separation from Service. However, in the case of a Governmental Service Retirement by the Grantee, payment of the vested RSRs will be made within 10 days after the Grantee's Early or Normal Retirement. If the Grantee is a "specified employee" within the meaning of United States Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i) as of the date of the Grantee's Separation from Service, the Grantee shall not be entitled to payment of his vested RSRs pursuant to this Section until the earlier of (and payment shall be made upon or promptly after, and in all events within thirty (30) days after, the first to occur of) (a) the date which is six (6) months and one day after the Grantee's Separation from Service, or (b) the date of the Grantee's death. The provisions of the preceding sentence shall only apply if, and to the extent, required to avoid the imputation of any tax, penalty or interest pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.
th
th
     In determining the Grantee's eligibility for Early or Normal Retirement, service is measured by dividing (a) the number of days the Grantee was employed by the Company or a subsidiary in the period commencing with his or her last date of hire by the Company or a subsidiary through and including the date on which the Grantee is last employed by the Company or a subsidiary, by (b) 365. If the Grantee ceased to be employed by the Company or a subsidiary and was later rehired by the Company or a subsidiary, the Grantee's service prior to the break in service shall be disregarded in determining service for such purposes; provided that, if the Grantee's employment with the Company or a subsidiary had terminated due to the Grantee's Early Retirement, Normal Retirement, or by the Company as part of a reduction in force (in each case, other than a termination by the Company or a subsidiary for cause) and, within the two-year period following such termination of employment (the "break in service") the Grantee was subsequently rehired by the Company or a subsidiary, then the Grantee's period of service with the Company or a subsidiary prior to and ending with the break in service will be included in determining service for such purposes. In the event the Grantee is employed by a business that is acquired by the Company or a subsidiary, the Company shall have discretion to determine whether the Grantee's service prior to the acquisition will be included in determining service for such purposes.
 
     . The award, as well as the RSRs subject to the award, are non-transferable and shall not be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, anticipation, alienation, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge. The foregoing transfer restrictions shall not apply to transfers to the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may honor any transfer required pursuant to the terms of a court order in a divorce or similar domestic relations matter to the extent that such transfer does not adversely affect the Company's ability to register the offer and sale of the underlying shares on a Form S-8 Registration Statement and such transfer is otherwise in compliance with all applicable legal, regulatory and listing requirements.
3.1
Non-Transferability
     . Any payments or issuances of shares with respect to the award are subject to recoupment pursuant to the Company's Policy Regarding the Recoupment of Certain Performance-Based Compensation Payments as in effect from time to time, as well as any recoupment or similar provisions of applicable law, and the Grantee shall promptly make any reimbursement requested by the Board or Committee pursuant to such policy or applicable law with respect to the award. Further, the Grantee agrees, by accepting the award, that the Company and its affiliates may deduct from any amounts it may owe the Grantee from time to time (such as wages or other compensation) to the extent of any amounts the Grantee is required to reimburse the Company pursuant to such policy or applicable law with respect to the award.
3.2
Recoupment of Awards
     The Company's obligation to make any payments or issue any shares with respect to the award is subject to full compliance with all then applicable requirements of law, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commissioner of Corporations of the State of California, or other regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the Company and its shares, and of any exchange upon which stock of the Company may be listed. The Grantee shall not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder, including without limitation the right to vote or receive dividends, with respect to any shares which may be issued in respect of the RSRs until the date appearing on the certificate(s) for such shares (or, in the case of shares entered in book entry form, the date that the shares are actually recorded in such form for the benefit of the Grantee), if such shares become deliverable.
     . The RSRs and the shares subject to the award are subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of events such as stock splits, stock dividends
5.1
Adjustments
and other changes in capitalization in accordance with Section 6(a) of the Plan. In the event of any adjustment, the Company will give the Grantee written notice thereof which will set forth the nature of the adjustment.
     . Notwithstanding the Company's ability to terminate the award as provided in Section 5.3 below, the outstanding and previously unvested RSRs subject to the award shall become fully vested as of the date of the Grantee's termination of employment in the following circumstances:
5.2
Possible Acceleration on Change in Control
     Notwithstanding anything else contained herein to the contrary, the termination of the Grantee's employment (or other events giving rise to Good Reason) shall not entitle the Grantee to any accelerated vesting pursuant to clause (b) above if there is objective evidence that, as of the commencement of the Protected Period, the Grantee had specifically been identified by the Company as an employee whose employment would be terminated as part of a corporate restructuring or downsizing program that commenced prior to the Protected Period and such termination of employment was expected at that time to occur within six (6) months. The applicable Change in Control Severance Arrangement shall govern the matters addressed in this paragraph as to clause (a) above.
     Payment of any RSRs that vest under this Section will be made at the time provided for in Section 2.7 as though the termination of the Grantee's employment was due to a Normal Retirement.
     . If the Company undergoes a Change in Control triggered
5.3
Automatic Acceleration; Early Termination
 
by clause (iii) or (iv) of the definition thereof and the Company is not the surviving entity and the successor to the Company (if any) (or a Parent thereof) does not agree in writing prior to the occurrence of the Change in Control to continue and assume the award following the Change in Control, or if for any other reason the award would not continue after the Change in Control, then upon the Change in Control the outstanding and previously unvested RSRs subject to the award shall vest fully and completely. Unless the Committee expressly provides otherwise in the circumstances, no acceleration of vesting of the award shall occur pursuant to this Section 5.3 in connection with a Change in Control if either (a) the Company is the surviving entity, or (b) the successor to the Company (if any) (or a Parent thereof) agrees in writing prior to the Change in Control to assume the award. The Committee may make adjustments pursuant to Section 6(a) of the Plan and/or deem an acceleration of vesting of the award pursuant to this Section 5.3 to occur sufficiently prior to an event if necessary or deemed appropriate to permit the Grantee to realize the benefits intended to be conveyed with respect to the shares underlying the RSRs; provided, however, that, the Committee may reinstate the original terms of the award if the related event does not actually occur.
     Payment of any RSRs that vest under this Section 5.3 will be made within 90 days of the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date unless: (i) the Grantee dies or has a Disability, in which case such payment will be made in the calendar year containing the 75 day following the date of the Grantee's death or Disability, as the case may be (and generally will be paid on or about such 75 day), or (ii) the Grantee has a Separation from Service, in which case such payment will be made at the time provided for in Section 2.7 as though the termination of the Grantee's employment was due to a Normal Retirement.
th
th
     . The Company or the subsidiary which employs the Grantee shall be entitled to require, as a condition of making any payments or issuing any shares upon vesting of the RSRs, that the Grantee or other person entitled to such shares or other payment pay any sums required to be withheld by federal, state, local or other applicable tax law with respect to such vesting or payment. Alternatively, the Company or such subsidiary, in its discretion, may make such provisions for the withholding of taxes as it deems appropriate (including, without limitation, withholding the taxes due from compensation otherwise payable to the Grantee or reducing the number of shares otherwise deliverable with respect to the award (valued at their then Fair Market Value) by the amount necessary to satisfy such withholding obligations at the flat percentage rates applicable to supplemental wages).
6.1
Tax Withholding
     . The Company will pay all federal and state transfer taxes, if any, and other fees and expenses in connection with the issuance of shares in connection with the vesting of the RSRs.
6.2
Transfer Taxes
     . The Committee shall administer and construe the award, and may amend the Terms of the award, in a manner designed to comply with the Code and to avoid adverse tax consequences under Code Section 409A or otherwise.
6.3
Compliance with Code
     . The right of the Grantee to receive payment under the award shall be an unsecured contractual claim against the Company. As such, neither the Grantee nor any Successor shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company based on the award. Awards shall at all times be considered entirely unfunded for tax purposes.
6.4
Unfunded Arrangement
     The Committee has the discretionary authority to determine any questions as to the date when the Grantee's employment terminated and the cause of such termination and to interpret any provision of these Terms, the Stock Plan System, the Plan, and any other applicable rules. Any action taken by, or inaction of, the Committee relating to or pursuant to these Terms, the Stock Plan System, the Plan, or any other applicable rules shall be within the absolute discretion of the Committee and shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
     The RSRs are governed by, and the Grantee's rights are subject to, all of the terms and conditions of the Plan and any other rules adopted by the Committee, as the foregoing may be amended from time to time. The Grantee shall have no rights with respect to any amendment of these Terms or the Plan unless such amendment is in writing and signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Stock Plan System and the provisions of these Terms and/or the Plan, the provisions of these Terms and/or the Plan, as applicable, shall govern.
 
     The holding requirements of this Section 9 shall apply to any Grantee who is an elected or appointed officer of the Company on the date vested RSRs are paid (or, if earlier, on the date the Grantee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries terminates for any reason). Any Grantee subject to this Section 9 shall not be permitted to sell, transfer, anticipate, alienate, assign, pledge, encumber or charge 50% of the total number (if any) of shares of Common Stock the Grantee receives as payment for vested RSRs until the earlier of (A) the third anniversary of the date such shares of Common Stock are paid to the Grantee, or (B) the date the Grantee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries terminates due to the Grantee's death or Disability. For purposes of this Section 9, the total number of shares of Common Stock the Grantee receives as payment for vested RSRs shall be determined on a net basis after taking into account any shares otherwise deliverable with respect to the award that the Company withholds to satisfy tax obligations pursuant to Section 6.1. Any shares of Common Stock received in respect of shares that are covered by the holding period requirements of this Section 9 (such as shares received in respect of a stock split or stock dividend) shall be subject to the same holding period requirements as the shares to which they relate.
     Whenever used in these Terms, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:
     "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
     "" means the occurrence of either or both of the following:
Cause
     "" is used as defined in the Plan.
Change in Control
     "" means a "Special Agreement" entered into by and between the Grantee and the Company that provides severance protections in the event of certain changes in control of the Company or the Company's Change-in-Control Severance Plan, as each may be in effect from time to time, or any similar successor agreement or plan that provides severance protections in the event of a change in control of the Company.
Change in Control Severance Arrangement
     "" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     "" means the Company's Compensation Committee or any successor committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.
Committee
     "" means the Company's common stock.
Common Stock
     "" means, with respect to a Grantee, that the Grantee: (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months; or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Grantee's employer; all construed and interpreted consistent with the definition of "Disability" set forth in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(C).
Disability
     "" means that the Grantee's employment terminates in any of the following circumstances, and other than a termination of employment that constitutes a Normal Retirement or occurs in connection with a termination by the Company or a subsidiary for cause:
Early Retirement
In the case of a Grantee who is an officer of the Company subject to the Company's mandatory retirement at age 65 policy and who, at the applicable
 
time, is not otherwise eligible for Early Retirement as defined in the preceding sentence or for Normal Retirement, "Early Retirement" as to that Grantee means that the Grantee's employment is terminated pursuant to such mandatory retirement policy (regardless of the Grantee's years of service and other than in connection with a termination by the Company or a subsidiary for cause).
     "" is used as defined in the Plan; provided, however, the Committee in determining such Fair Market Value for purposes of the award may utilize such other exchange, market, or listing as it deems appropriate.
Fair Market Value
     "" means, without the Grantee's express written consent, the occurrence of any one or more of the following:
Good Reason
     The Grantee's right to terminate employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Grantee's incapacity due to physical or mental illness. The Grantee's continued employment shall not constitute a
 
consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any circumstances constituting Good Reason herein.
     "" means an Early or Normal Retirement by the Grantee where the Grantee accepts a position in the federal government or a state or local government and an accelerated distribution under the award is permitted under Code Section 409A based on such government employment and related ethics rules.
Governmental Service Retirement
     "" means that the Grantee terminates employment after attaining age 65 with at least 10 years of service (other than in connection with a termination by the Company or a subsidiary for cause).
Normal Retirement
     "" is used as defined in the Plan.
Parent
     "" means the Northrop Grumman 2001 Long-Term Incentive Stock Plan, as it may be amended form time to time.
Plan
     The "" corresponding to a Change in Control of the Company shall be a period of time determined in accordance with the following:
Protected Period
     "" means when the Grantee dies, retires, or otherwise has a termination of employment with the Company and its subsidiaries that constitutes a "separation from service" within the
Separation from Service
meaning of United States Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)(1), without regard to the optional alternative definitions available thereunder.
     "" means the person acquiring a Grantee's rights to a grant under the Plan by will or by the laws of descent or distribution.
Successor

Exhibit 10.4
     These Terms and Conditions ("Terms") apply to certain "Restricted Stock Rights" ("RSRs") granted by Northrop Grumman Corporation (the "Company") to ________in 2011. The date of grant of the RSR award is ________, 2011(the "Grant Date"). The number of RSRs applicable to the award is ________. The date of grant and number of RSRs are also reflected in the electronic stock plan award recordkeeping system ("Stock Plan System") maintained by the Company or its designee. These Terms apply only with respect to the 2011 RSR award identified above. You are referred to as the "Grantee" with respect to your award. Capitalized terms are generally defined in Section 10 below if not otherwise defined herein.
[
]
[
]
[
]
     Each RSR represents a right to receive one share of the Company's Common Stock, or cash of equivalent value as provided herein, subject to vesting as provided herein. The number of RSRs subject to your award is subject to adjustment as provided herein. The RSR award is subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in these Terms, and is further subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, as it may be amended from time to time, and any rules adopted by the Committee, as such rules are in effect from time to time.
.
1.
Vesting; Issuance of Shares
     Subject to Sections 2 and 5 below, one hundred percent (100%) of the number of RSRs subject to your award (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.1) shall vest upon the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date.
     Except as otherwise provided below, the Company shall pay a vested RSR within 90 days following the vesting of the RSR on the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date. The Company shall pay such vested RSRs in either an equivalent number of shares of Common Stock, or, in the discretion of the Committee, in cash or in a combination of shares of Common Stock and cash. In the event of a cash payment, the amount of the payment for vested RSR to be paid in cash (subject to tax withholding as provided in Section 6 below) will equal the Fair Market Value (as defined below) of a share of Common Stock as of the date that such RSR became vested. No fractional shares will be issued.
.
2.
Early Termination of Award; Termination of Employment
     . The RSRs subject to the award, to the extent not previously vested, shall terminate and become null and void if and when (a) the award terminates in connection with a Change in Control pursuant to Section 5 below, or (b) except as provided in Section 2.6 and in Section 5, the Grantee ceases for any reason to be an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries.
2.1
General
     . Unless the Committee otherwise provides (at the time of the leave or otherwise), if the Grantee is granted a leave of absence by the Company, the Grantee (a) shall not be deemed to have incurred a termination of employment at the time
2.2
Leave of Absence
such leave commences for purposes of the award, and (b) shall be deemed to be employed by the Company for the duration of such approved leave of absence for purposes of the award. A termination of employment shall be deemed to have occurred if the Grantee does not timely return to active employment upon the expiration of such approved leave or if the Grantee commences a leave that is not approved by the Company.
     . Subject to Section 2.2 above, the term "employment" as used herein means active employment by the Company and salary continuation without active employment (other than a leave of absence approved by the Company that is covered by Section 2.2) will not, in and of itself, constitute "employment" for purposes hereof (in the case of salary continuation without active employment, the Grantee's cessation of active employee status shall, subject to Section 2.2, be deemed to be a termination of "employment" for purposes hereof). Furthermore, salary continuation will not, in and of itself, constitute a leave of absence approved by the Company for purposes of the award.
2.3
Salary Continuation
     . For purposes of the RSRs subject to the award, a termination of employment of the Grantee shall be deemed to have occurred if the Grantee is employed by a subsidiary or business unit and that subsidiary or business unit is sold, spun off, or otherwise divested, the Grantee does not otherwise continue to be employed by the Company after such event, and the divested entity or business (or its successor or a parent company) does not assume the award in connection with such transaction.
2.4
Sale or Spinoff of Subsidiary or Business Unit
     . Except as expressly provided in Section 2.6 and in Section 5, the vesting of the RSRs subject to the award
2.5
Continuance of Employment Required
 
requires continued employment through the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date as a condition to the vesting of any portion of the award. Employment for only a portion of the vesting period, even if a substantial portion, will not entitle the Grantee to any proportionate vesting or avoid or mitigate a termination of rights and benefits upon or following a termination of employment. Nothing contained in these Terms, the Stock Plan System, or the Plan constitutes an employment commitment by the Company or any subsidiary, affects the Grantee's status (if the Grantee is otherwise an at-will employee) as an employee at will who is subject to termination without cause, confers upon the Grantee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary, or interferes in any way with the right of the Company or of any subsidiary to terminate such employment at any time.
     . If the Grantee dies or incurs a Disability while employed by the Company or a subsidiary and such death or Disability occurs more than six months after the Grand Date, the outstanding and previously unvested RSRs subject to the award shall vest as of the date of the Grantee's death or Disability, as applicable. Any remaining unvested RSRs, after giving effect to the foregoing sentence, shall terminate immediately upon the Grantee's death or Disability. RSRs vesting under this Section shall be paid in the calendar year containing the 75 day (and generally will be paid on or about such 75 day) following the earlier of (a) Grantee's death or (b) Grantee's Disability. In the event of the Grantee's death prior to the delivery of shares or other payment with respect to any vested RSRs, the Grantee's Successor shall be entitled to any payments to which the Grantee would have been entitled under this Agreement with respect to such vested and unpaid RSRs
2.6
Death or Disability
th
th
.
3.
Non-Transferability and Other Restrictions
     . The award, as well as the RSRs subject to the award, are non-transferable and shall not be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, anticipation, alienation, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge. The foregoing transfer restrictions shall not apply to: (a) transfers to the Company; or (b) transfers pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order (as defined in the Code). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may honor any transfer required pursuant to the terms of a court order in a divorce or similar domestic relations matter to the extent that such transfer does not adversely affect the Company's ability to register the offer and sale of the underlying shares on a Form S-8 Registration Statement and such transfer is otherwise in compliance with all applicable legal, regulatory and listing requirements.
3.1
Non-Transferability
     . Any payments or issuances of shares with respect to the award are subject to recoupment pursuant to the Company's Policy
3.2
Recoupment of Awards
Regarding the Recoupment of Certain Performance-Based Compensation Payments as in effect from time to time, as well as any recoupment or similar provisions of applicable law, and the Grantee shall promptly make any reimbursement requested by the Board or Committee pursuant to such policy or applicable law with respect to the award. Further, the Grantee agrees, by accepting the award, that the Company and its affiliates may deduct from any amounts it may owe the Grantee from time to time (such as wages or other compensation) to the extent of any amounts the Grantee is required to reimburse the Company pursuant to such policy or applicable law with respect to the award.
.
4.
Compliance with Laws; No Stockholder Rights Prior to Issuance
     The Company's obligation to make any payments or issue any shares with respect to the award is subject to full compliance with all then applicable requirements of law, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commissioner of Corporations of the State of California, or other regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the Company and its shares, and of any exchange upon which stock of the Company may be listed. The Grantee shall not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder, including without limitation the right to vote or receive dividends, with respect to any shares which may be issued in respect of the RSRs until the date appearing on the certificate(s) for such shares (or, in the case of shares entered in book entry form, the date that the shares are actually recorded in such form for the benefit of the Grantee), if such shares become deliverable.
     . The RSRs and the shares subject to the award are subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of events such as stock splits, stock dividends and other changes in capitalization in accordance with Section 6(a) of the Plan. In the event of any adjustment, the Company will give the Grantee written notice thereof which will set forth the nature of the adjustment.
5.1
Adjustments
     . Notwithstanding the Company's ability to terminate the award as provided in Section 5.3 below, the outstanding and previously unvested RSRs subject to the award shall become fully vested as of the date of the Grantee's termination of employment in the following circumstances:
5.2
Possible Acceleration on Change in Control
 
     Notwithstanding anything else contained herein to the contrary, the termination of the Grantee's employment (or other events giving rise to Good Reason) shall not entitle the Grantee to any accelerated vesting pursuant to clause (b) above if there is objective evidence that, as of the commencement of the Protected Period, the Grantee had specifically been identified by the Company as an employee whose employment would be terminated as part of a corporate restructuring or downsizing program that commenced prior to the Protected Period and such termination of employment was expected at that time to occur within six (6) months. The applicable Change in Control Severance Arrangement shall govern the matters addressed in this paragraph as to clause (a) above.
     Payment of any amount due under this Section will be made within 90 days of the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date.
     . If the Company undergoes a Change in Control triggered by clause (iii) or (iv) of the definition thereof and the Company is not the surviving entity and the successor to the Company (if any) (or a Parent thereof) does not agree in writing prior to the occurrence of the Change in Control to continue and assume the award following the Change in Control, or if for any other reason the award would not continue after the Change in Control, then upon the Change in Control the outstanding and previously unvested RSRs subject to the award shall vest fully and completely. Unless the Committee expressly provides otherwise in the circumstances, no acceleration of vesting of the award shall occur pursuant to this Section 5.3 in connection with a Change in Control if either (a) the Company is the surviving entity, or (b) the successor to the Company (if any) (or a Parent thereof) agrees in writing prior to the Change in Control to assume the award. The award shall terminate, subject to such acceleration provisions, upon a Change in Control triggered by clause (iii) or (iv) of the definition thereof in which the Company is not the surviving entity and the successor to the Company (if any) (or a Parent thereof)
5.3
Automatic Acceleration; Early Termination
does not agree in writing prior to the occurrence of the Change in Control to continue and assume the award following the Change in Control. The Committee may make adjustments pursuant to Section 6(a) of the Plan and/or deem an acceleration of vesting of the award pursuant to this Section 5.3 to occur sufficiently prior to an event if necessary or deemed appropriate to permit the Grantee to realize the benefits intended to be conveyed with respect to the shares underlying the RSRs; provided, however, that, the Committee may reinstate the original terms of the award if the related event does not actually occur.
     Payment of any amount due under this Section will be made within 90 days of the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date.
.
6.
Tax Matters
     . The Company or the subsidiary which employs the Grantee shall be entitled to require, as a condition of making any payments or issuing any shares upon vesting of the RSRs, that the Grantee or other person entitled to such shares or other payment pay any sums required to be withheld by federal, state, local or other applicable tax law with respect to such vesting or payment. Alternatively, the Company or such subsidiary, in its discretion, may make such provisions for the withholding of taxes as it deems appropriate (including, without limitation, withholding the taxes due from compensation otherwise payable to the Grantee or reducing the number of shares otherwise deliverable with respect to the award (valued at their then Fair Market Value) by the amount necessary to satisfy such withholding obligations at the flat percentage rates applicable to supplemental wages).
6.1
Tax Withholding
     . The Company will pay all federal and state transfer taxes, if any, and other fees and expenses in connection with the issuance of shares in connection with the vesting of the RSRs.
6.2
Transfer Taxes
     . The Committee shall administer and construe the award, and may amend the Terms of the award, in a manner designed to comply with the Code and to avoid adverse tax consequences under Code Section 409A or otherwise.
6.3
Compliance with Code
     . The right of the Grantee to receive payment under the award shall be an unsecured contractual claim against the Company. As such, neither the Grantee nor any Successor shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company based on the award. Awards shall at all times be considered entirely unfunded for tax purposes.
6.4
Unfunded Arrangement
 
.
7.
Committee Authority
     The Committee has the discretionary authority to determine any questions as to the date when the Grantee's employment terminated and the cause of such termination and to interpret any provision of these Terms, the Stock Plan System, the Plan, and any other applicable rules. Any action taken by, or inaction of, the Committee relating to or pursuant to these Terms, the Stock Plan System, the Plan, or any other applicable rules shall be within the absolute discretion of the Committee and shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
.
8.
Plan; Amendment
     The RSRs are governed by, and the Grantee's rights are subject to, all of the terms and conditions of the Plan and any other rules adopted by the Committee, as the foregoing may be amended from time to time. The Grantee shall have no rights with respect to any amendment of these Terms or the Plan unless such amendment is in writing and signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Stock Plan System and the provisions of these Terms and/or the Plan, the provisions of these Terms and/or the Plan, as applicable, shall govern.
9.
Required Holding Period
.
     The holding requirements of this Section 9 shall apply to any Grantee who is an elected or appointed officer of the Company on the date vested RSRs are paid (or, if earlier, on the date the Grantee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries terminates for any reason). Any Grantee subject to this Section 9 shall not be permitted to sell, transfer, anticipate, alienate, assign, pledge, encumber or charge 50% of the total number (if any) of shares of Common Stock the Grantee receives as payment for vested RSRs until the earlier of (A) the third anniversary of the date such shares of Common Stock are paid to the Grantee, or (B) the date the Grantee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries terminates due to the Grantee's death or Disability. For purposes of this Section 9, the total number of shares of Common Stock the Grantee receives as payment for vested RSRs shall be determined on a net basis after taking into account any shares otherwise deliverable with respect to the award that the Company withholds to satisfy tax obligations pursuant to Section 6.1. Any shares of Common Stock received in respect of shares that are covered by the holding period requirements of this Section 9 (such as shares received in respect of a stock split or stock dividend) shall be subject to the same holding period requirements as the shares to which they relate.
.
10.
Definitions
     Whenever used in these Terms, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:
     "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
     "" means the occurrence of either or both of the following:
Cause
     "" is used as defined in the Plan.
Change in Control
 
     "" means a "Special Agreement" entered into by and between the Grantee and the Company that provides severance protections in the event of certain changes in control of the Company or the Company's Change-in-Control Severance Plan, as each may be in effect from time to time, or any similar successor agreement or plan that provides severance protections in the event of a change in control of the Company.
Change in Control Severance Arrangement
     "" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     "" means the Company's Compensation Committee or any successor committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.
Committee
     "" means the Company's common stock.
Common Stock
     "" means, with respect to a Grantee, that the Grantee: (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months; or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Grantee's employer; all construed and interpreted consistent with the definition of "Disability" set forth in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(C).
Disability
     "" is used as defined in the Plan; provided, however, the Committee in determining such Fair Market Value for purposes of the award may utilize such other exchange, market, or listing as it deems appropriate.
Fair Market Value
     "" means, without the Grantee's express written consent, the occurrence of any one or more of the following:
Good Reason
 
     The Grantee's right to terminate employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Grantee's incapacity due to physical or mental illness. The Grantee's continued employment shall not constitute a consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any circumstances constituting Good Reason herein.
     "" is used as defined in the Plan.
Parent
     "" means the Northrop Grumman 2001 Long-Term Incentive Stock Plan, as it may be amended form time to time.
Plan
     The "" corresponding to a Change in Control of the Company shall be a period of time determined in accordance with the following:
Protected Period
     "" means the person acquiring a Grantee's rights to a grant under the Plan by will or by the laws of descent or distribution.
Successor


