FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20110720215909.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(c) Appointment of Certain Officers
On July 19, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Wesley G. Bush, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and President, as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, effective immediately. Mr. Bush has been a member of the Board since 2009. Mr. Bush has been Chief Executive Officer and President since January 1, 2010.
Item 8.01 Other Events
On July 19, 2011, the independent members of the Board of Directors designated Lewis W. Coleman, as the Lead Independent Director, effective immediately. Mr. Coleman had served as the non-executive Chairman of the Board since January 1, 2010. Prior to that he served as Lead Independent Director from May 2007 until January 2010. Mr. Coleman has been a member of the Board of Directors since 2001.
A copy of the Company's press release issued July 20, 2011 regarding the matters described in Item 5.02(c) and Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
      (d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 20, 2011
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Northrop Grumman Board Names Wes Bush Chairman, Lewis W. Coleman Lead Independent Director
LOS ANGELES  July 20, 2011  The board of directors of Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE:NOC) elected Wes Bush as its chairman, effective immediately. Bush will serve as chairman, chief executive officer and president. Bush succeeds Lewis W. Coleman, who has served as non-executive chairman since January 2010. The board designated Coleman to serve as its lead independent director.
Photos accompanying this release are available at:
http://www.irconnect.com/noc/press/pages/news_releases.html?d=226964
"Wes Bush has the full support of the board and has made excellent progress improving the company's performance for shareholders, customers and employees," said Coleman. "This is the right time for Wes to assume the chairmanship of Northrop Grumman."
"Lew Coleman has been an outstanding chairman for our board, providing tremendous leadership through an important period for our company. I look forward to working with him as our lead independent director," said Bush.
Coleman joined the company's board of directors in 2001. He is president and chief financial officer of DreamWorks Animation SKG. He was formerly chairman of Banc of America Securities L.L.C., a subsidiary of Bank of America Corporation.
Bush has been chief executive officer and president of Northrop Grumman since Jan. 1, 2010. He was elected to the company's board of directors in 2009. Previously he served as the president and chief operating officer, corporate vice president and chief financial officer, and president of the company's Space Technology sector.
 
 
 
Northrop Grumman Board Names Wes Bush Chairman, Lewis W. Coleman Lead Independent Director
Northrop Grumman is a leading global security company providing innovative systems, products and solutions in aerospace, electronics, information systems, and technical services to government and commercial customers worldwide. Please visit for more information.
www.northropgrumman.com
0711-314
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


