FILE:NOC/NOC-8K-20120907115044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________________________________
FORM 8-K
_______________________________________________
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
September
4
, 2012
________________________________________________
NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
__________________________________________________
 
2980 Fairview Park Drive, Falls Church, Virginia 22042
www.northropgrumman.com
(Address of principal executive offices and internet site)
(703) 280-2900
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
2
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On September 
4
, 2012, Northrop Grumman Corporation (the Company) entered into a new 364-day revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $0.5 billion under a 364-Day Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") among the Company, as Borrower; Northrop Grumman Systems Corporation, as Guarantor; the Lenders party thereto; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent; and Citibank, N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agents. The Credit Agreement replaced the Company's existing 364-day revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $0.5 billion entered into on September 8, 2011 (the "2011 364-Day Agreement").
The terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement are substantially similar to the terms and conditions in the 2011 364-Day Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains customary terms and conditions, including covenants restricting the Companys ability to sell all or substantially all of its assets, merge or consolidate with another entity or undertake other fundamental changes and incur liens. The Company also cannot permit the ratio of its consolidated debt to capitalization (as set forth in the Credit Agreement) to exceed 65 percent. The Credit Agreement contains customary events of default (subject to applicable grace and notice periods), including, among others, defaults based on (1) the nonpayment of principal, interest or fees when due, (2) the failure of representations and warranties to be correct in any material respect, (3) the failure to observe or perform any other covenant or agreement contained in the Credit Agreement, (4) cross-defaults with other debt resulting in the acceleration of the maturity thereof, (5) certain bankruptcy and insolvency events, (6) certain events occurring under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, (7) events of default occurring under the Company's Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 8, 2011 and (8) a change of control.
The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto. Some of the lenders under the Credit Agreement or their respective affiliates have from time to time performed various financial advisory, commercial banking, investment banking or hedging services for us, including repurchases of Northrop Grumman common stock, in the ordinary course of their respective businesses.
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
In connection with entering into the Credit Agreement, on September
4
, 2012, the 2011 364-Day Agreement originally scheduled to expire on September 6, 2012, was terminated. There were no outstanding borrowings under the 2011 364-Day Agreement at the time of termination, and no termination penalties were paid as a result of the termination.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information set forth above under Item 1.01 above is incorporated herein in its entirety.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
3
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 7, 2012
4
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
5

Exhibit 10.1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ARTICLE I
Definitions
ARTICLE II
The Credits
i
ARTICLE III
Representations and Warranties
ARTICLE IV
Conditions
ARTICLE V
Affirmative Covenants
ii
ARTICLE VI
Negative Covenants
ARTICLE VII
Events of Default
ARTICLE VIII
The Administrative Agent
ARTICLE IX
Guarantee
iii
ARTICLE X
Miscellaneous
iv
SCHEDULES
:
Schedule 2.01 -- Commitments
ANNEXES
:
Annex I -- Pricing Categories
EXHIBITS
:
Exhibit B-2 --    Form of Opinion of Jennifer C. McGarey, Esq., Borrowers Counsel
Exhibit C --    Confidentiality Agreement Exhibit D-1 -- Form of U.S. Tax Certificate
Exhibit D-2 -- Form of U.S. Tax Certificate
Exhibit D-3 -- Form of U.S. Tax Certificate
Exhibit D-4 -- Form of U.S. Tax Certificate
v
1
364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of September 4, 2012, among NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, as Borrower; NORTHROP GRUMMAN SYSTEMS CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, as Guarantor; the LENDERS party hereto; JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent; and CITIBANK, N.A., THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Syndication Agents.
The Borrower has requested that the Lenders extend, and the Lenders are willing to extend, credit on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein. Accordingly, the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01.
    
Defined Terms.
As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
5-Year Credit Agreement
 means the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 8, 2011 among the Borrower, the Guarantor, the lenders party thereto; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent; and Citibank, N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agents.
ABR
, when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
 means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary to the next 1/100 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Administrative Agent
 means JPMCB in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder, or any successor thereto appointed in accordance with Article VIII.
Administrative Questionnaire
 means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Affiliate
 means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Agreement
 means this 364-Day Credit Agreement (including the Schedules and Exhibits hereto).
Agreement Currency
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.15
2
(b).
Alternate Base Rate
 means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus  of 1% per annum and (c) the LIBO Rate on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) for a deposit in US Dollars with a maturity of one month plus 1% per annum. For purposes of clause (c) above, the LIBO Rate on any day shall be based on the rate per annum appearing on the Reuters LIBOR01 screen displaying British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rates (or on any successor or substitute screen provided by Reuters, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such screen, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to such day for deposits in dollars with a maturity of one month. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the LIBO Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the LIBO Rate, respectively.
Applicable Commitment Fee Rate
 means at any time the applicable rate per annum set forth on Annex I under the caption Commitment Fee Rate based on the Pricing Category of the Applicable Index Debt on such date.
Applicable Creditor
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.15(b).
Applicable Index Debt
 means, at any date of determination, (a) prior to the release of the Guarantor, whichever of (i) the Borrowers Index Debt and (ii) the Guarantors Index Debt is in the superior (i.e. the numerically lower) Pricing Category, and (b) after the release of the Guarantor, the Borrowers Index Debt.
Applicable Margin
 means, at any time, (a) in the case of any Eurodollar Loan, (i) prior to the Termination Date, the Credit Default Swap Spread, but in no event less than the Minimum Applicable LIBOR Margin or higher than the Maximum Applicable LIBOR Margin, and (ii) on and after the Termination Date, the Maximum Applicable LIBOR Margin, and (b) in the case of any ABR Loan, (i) prior to the Termination Date, the Credit Default Swap Spread, but in no event less than the Minimum Applicable LIBOR Margin or higher than the Maximum Applicable LIBOR Margin, minus 1% per annum, but in no event less than 0% per annum, and (ii) on and after the Termination Date, the Maximum Applicable LIBOR Margin minus 1% per annum, but in no event less than 0% per annum;
provided
, that if the Credit Default Swap Spread shall be unavailable, the Applicable Margin shall, prior to the Termination Date, be determined as provided in the definition of Credit Default Swap Spread.
Applicable Percentage
 means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lenders Commitment;
provided
that if any Defaulting Lender exists at such time, then, for purposes of Section 2.20, the Applicable Percentages shall be calculated disregarding such Defaulting Lenders Revolving Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based
3
upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Approved Fund
 means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender, and which has the operational capability to administer revolving credits of the type contemplated by this Agreement, or which has an arrangement with the related Lender for the performance of its obligations hereunder.
Assignment and Assumption
 means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 10.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of
Exhibit A
or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower.
Availability Period
 means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Termination Date and the date of termination of the Commitments.
Bankruptcy Event
 means, with respect to any Person, that such Person has become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with the reorganization or liquidation of its business appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in, any such proceeding or appointment; provided that a Bankruptcy Event shall not result solely by virtue of any ownership interest, or the acquisition of any ownership interest, in such Person by a Governmental Authority so long as such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Person with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States of America or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Person (or such Governmental Authority) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any agreements made by such Person.
Board
 means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Borrower
 means Northrop Grumman Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its successors and permitted assigns.
Borrowing
 means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect or (b) a Competitive Loan or group of Competitive Loans of the same Type made on the same date and as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
Borrowing Request
 means a request by the Borrower for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
4
Business Day
 means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed;
provided
that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term 
Business Day
 shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in US Dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
Capital Lease Obligations
 of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Markets Agreement
 means any instrument or agreement evidencing or governing Capital Markets Debt.
Capital Markets Debt
 means, as of each date of determination, Indebtedness existing as of that date and issued pursuant to one agreement or indenture or a group of related agreements or indentures, in each case in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $150,000,000 that is owed to financial institutions or evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments.
Change in Control
 means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder as in effect on the date hereof) of Equity Interests representing more than 50% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the Borrower or (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Borrower by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Borrower nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated.
Change in Law
 means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of Section 2.15(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lenders holding company, if any) with any request, rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement;
provided
that, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith and (ii) all requests, rules guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Regulations and Supervisory Practices (or any successor similar authority) or the United States financial regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a Change in Law, whether enacted, adopted, promulgated or issued before or after the date of this Agreement.
5
Charges
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.13.
Class
, when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Competitive Loans.
Code
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Commitment
 means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lenders Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.09 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 10.04. The initial amount of each Lenders Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders Commitments is $500,000,000.
Competitive Bid
 means an offer by a Lender to make a Competitive Loan in accordance with Section 2.04.
Competitive Bid Rate
 means, with respect to any Competitive Bid, the Margin or the Fixed Rate, as applicable, offered by the Lender making such Competitive Bid.
Competitive Bid Request
 means a request by the Borrower for Competitive Bids in accordance with Section 2.04.
Competitive Loan
 means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.04.
Confidentiality Agreement
 means a confidentiality agreement in the form of
Exhibit C
.
Consolidated Assets
 means, at any time, all assets of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries at such time, as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Debt
 means, for any date of determination and without duplication, all indebtedness for borrowed money and Capital Lease Obligations reported as indebtedness in the consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries prepared as of such date of determination, plus all indebtedness for borrowed money and Capital Lease Obligations incurred by third parties and guaranteed by the Borrower or a Subsidiary not otherwise reported as indebtedness in such consolidated financial statements.
Control
 means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. 
Controlled
 has a correlative meaning thereto.
Credit Default Swap Spread
 means at any time, with respect to any Revolving Loan, the credit default swap spread for the Applicable Index Debt, determined as of the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the most recent Determination Date
6
applicable to such Revolving Loan, as reported by Markit and interpolated to the Maturity Date based on Markit Data;
provided
that if the Maturity Date will occur in less than one year, the Credit Default Swap Spread shall be based on the credit default swap spread reported for a period of one year. The Credit Default Swap Spread so determined with respect to any Revolving Loan shall become effective on the date such Revolving Loan is made or the day immediately following the most recent applicable Determination Date therefor, as the case may be, and shall remain in effect through and including the next Determination Date. If at any applicable Determination Date the Credit Default Swap Spread is unavailable, the Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith (for a period of up to thirty days after such Determination Date (such thirty-day period, the 
Negotiation Period
)) to agree on an alternative method for establishing the Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Loans and ABR loans. The Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Loans and ABR Loans at any date of determination thereof during the Negotiation Period shall be based upon the then most recently available quote of the Credit Default Swap Spread. If no such alternative method is agreed upon during the Negotiation Period, then, at all times prior to the Termination Date, the Applicable Margin at any date of determination subsequent to the end of the Negotiation Period shall be (a) in the case of Eurodollar Loans, 75% of the Maximum Applicable LIBOR Margin, and (b) in the case of ABR Loans, 75% of the Maximum Applicable LIBOR Margin minus 1.00% per annum (but in no event less than 0% per annum).
Credit Party
 means the Administrative Agent and each other Lender.
Data Provider
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.19(c).
Default
 means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Defaulting Lender
 means any Lender that (a) has failed, within two Business Days of the date required to be funded or paid, (i) to fund any portion of its Loans or (ii) to pay to any Credit Party any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder, unless, in the case of clause (i) above, such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent in writing that such failure is the result of such Lenders good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified in such writing, including, if applicable, by reference to a specific Default) has not been satisfied, (b) has notified the Borrower or any Credit Party in writing, or has made a public statement, to the effect that it does not intend or expect to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement (unless such writing or public statement indicates that such position is based on such Lenders good-faith determination that a condition precedent (specifically identified in such writing, including, if applicable, by reference to a specific Default) to funding a Loan cannot be satisfied) or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three Business Days after request by a Credit Party made in good faith to provide a certification in writing from an authorized officer of such Lender that it will comply with its obligations to fund prospective Loans;
provided
that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (c) upon such Credit Partys receipt of such certification in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Credit Party
7
and the Administrative Agent, (d) has become a Defaulting Lender under and as defined in the 5-Year Credit Agreement or (e)(i) has become the subject of a Bankruptcy Event, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it or (iii) has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment;
provided
that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender by a Governmental Authority.
Designated Payment Account
 means an account with the Administrative Agent designated from time to time by the Borrower in a writing executed by a Financial Officer.
Designated Users
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.19(a).
Determination Date
 means (a) in the case of any Eurodollar Loan, the second Business Day prior to the borrowing of such Loan and the second Business Day prior to the continuation of such Loan for an additional Interest Period,
provided
that, in the case of any Eurodollar Loan having an Interest Period of greater than three months, the second Business Day prior to each three-month period succeeding the initial three-month period shall also be a Determination Date, (b) in the case of any ABR Loan, the date of an initial borrowing of any ABR Loans (prior to which no ABR Loans were outstanding) and thereafter the first Business Day of each fiscal quarter so long as any ABR Loans are outstanding.
Effective Date
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 4.01.
Environmental Laws
 means all applicable laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters.
Equity Interests
 means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any such equity interest.
ERISA
 means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA Group
 means the Borrower and all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control that, together with the Borrower, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
Eurodollar
, when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate (or, in the case of a Competitive Loan, the LIBO Rate).
8
Event of Default
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII.
Excluded Taxes
 means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower or the Guarantor hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which such recipient is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.19(b) or 10.02(c)), any withholding tax that is imposed (including FATCA) by the United States of America on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender by the Borrower or the Guarantor from locations in the United States of America at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lenders failure to comply with Section 2.17(f), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.17(a).
Existing Credit Agreement
 means the Borrowers 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of September 8, 2011 (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or modified from time to time), as in effect immediately prior to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
FATCA
 means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement and any regulations or official interpretations thereof.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
 means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Financial Officer
 means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of the Borrower.
Fixed Rate
 means, with respect to any Competitive Loan (other than a Eurodollar Competitive Loan), the fixed rate of interest per annum specified by the Lender making such Competitive Loan in its related Competitive Bid.
Fixed Rate Loan
 means a Competitive Loan bearing interest at a Fixed Rate.
Foreign Lender
 means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the
9
United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Funded Debt Agreement
 means any agreement, or group of related agreements, evidencing Funded Debt.
Funded Debt
 means any Indebtedness for borrowed money (other than Loans under this Agreement) of the Borrower and/or one or more of its Restricted Subsidiaries.
GAAP
 means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, applied in accordance with Section 1.04.
Governmental Authority
 means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Guarantor
 means Northrop Grumman Systems Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower.
Hazardous Materials
 means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Indebtedness
 means, for any Person, indebtedness for borrowed money and Capital Lease Obligations reported as indebtedness in the consolidated financial statements of that Person and its consolidated subsidiaries, plus all indebtedness for borrowed money and Capital Lease Obligations incurred by third parties and guaranteed by that Person or any of its consolidated subsidiaries not otherwise reported as indebtedness in such consolidated financial statements.
Indemnified Taxes
 means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnitee
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.03(b).
Index Debt
 means senior, unsecured long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that does not have the benefit of any guarantee or other credit enhancement (other than (i) in the case of indebtedness of the Guarantor, a guarantee by the Borrower or (ii) in the case of indebtedness of the Borrower, but only prior to the release of the guarantee set forth in Article IX, a guarantee by the Guarantor).
Interest Election Request
 means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.08.
10
Interest Payment Date
 means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December, (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months duration after the first day of such Interest Period and (c) with respect to any Fixed Rate Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than 90 days duration (unless otherwise specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request), each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of 90 days duration after the first day of such Interest Period, and any other dates that are specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request as Interest Payment Dates with respect to such Borrowing.
Interest Period
 means (a) with respect to any Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one week or one, two, three or six months thereafter, or any other period agreed to by the Borrower and each applicable Lender, as the Borrower may elect, (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending 7 days thereafter, or on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter, or any other period agreed to by the Borrower and each advancing Lender, as the Borrower may elect, and (c) with respect to any Fixed Rate Borrowing, the period (which shall not be less than 7 days or more than 360 days) commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the date specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request;
provided
, that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
IRS
 means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
JPMCB
 means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and its successors.
Judgment Currency
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.15(b).
Lenders
 means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption in compliance with Section 10.04, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption.
11
LIBO Rate
 means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on the Reuters LIBOR01 screen displaying British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rates (or on any successor or substitute screen of such service, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to US Dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for US Dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the 
LIBO Rate
 with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which US Dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Lien
 means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset.
Loan Parties
 means the Borrower and the Guarantor (but, in the case of the Guarantor, only for so long as the Guarantor has not been released from the guarantee contained in Section 9.01 pursuant to Section 9.02 or Section 10.14).
Loans
 means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Margin
 means, with respect to any Competitive Loan bearing interest at a rate based on the LIBO Rate, the marginal rate of interest, if any, to be added to or subtracted from the LIBO Rate to determine the rate of interest applicable to such Loan, as specified by the Lender making such Loan in its related Competitive Bid.
Margin Stock
 has the meaning ascribed to such term in Regulation U issued by the Board.
Markit
 means Markit Group Limited or any successor thereto.
Markit Data
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.19(a).
Material Adverse Effect
 means a material adverse effect on (a) the ability of the Loan Parties to perform their obligations under this Agreement, (b) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement, (c) the rights and remedies of any Lender or the Administrative Agent under this Agreement, or (d) the timely payment of the principal of or interest on the Loans or other amounts payable in connection therewith.
Material Payment Default
 means, as to any Funded Debt Agreement, that any amount of principal or interest aggregating $100,000 or more is overdue thereunder.
12
Maturity Date
 means the Termination Date or any later date to which the Maturity Date shall have been extended pursuant to Section 2.10(f).
Maximum Applicable LIBOR Margin
 means, at any time, with respect to any Eurodollar Revolving Loan, the applicable rate per annum set forth on Annex I under the caption Maximum Applicable LIBOR Margin based on the Pricing Category of the Applicable Index Debt on such date.
Maximum Rate
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.13.
Minimum Applicable LIBOR Margin
 means, at any time, with respect to any Eurodollar Revolving Loan, the applicable rate per annum set forth on Annex I under the caption Minimum Applicable LIBOR Margin based on the Pricing Category of the Applicable Index Debt on such date.
MNPI
 means material information concerning the Borrower and the Subsidiaries and their securities that has not been disseminated in a manner making it available to investors generally, within the meaning of Regulation FD under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act of 1934.
Multiemployer Plan
 means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Non-Consenting Lender
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.02(c).
Non-Defaulting Lender
 means, at any time, any Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender at such time.
Obligations
 means (i) the principal of and premium, if any, and interest (including interest accruing during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding) on the Loans and (ii) all other monetary obligations, including fees, costs, expenses and indemnities, whether primary, secondary, direct, contingent, fixed or otherwise (including monetary obligations incurred during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding), of the Loan Parties under this Agreement.
Other Taxes
 means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.
Participant
 has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04(c)(i).
Participant Register
 has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04(c)(i).
13
PBGC
 means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
Permitted Encumbrances
 means:
(a) Liens imposed by law for taxes that are not yet due, or remain payable without penalty, or are being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings;
(b) carriers, warehousemens, mechanics, materialmens, repairmens and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 30 days or are being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings;
(c) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workers compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
(d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
(e) judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default under clause (k) of Article VII; and
(f) easements, zoning restrictions, rights-of-way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
provided
that the term Permitted Encumbrances shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
Person
 means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Plan
 means, at any time, an employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) that is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code and is maintained, or contributed to, by any member of the ERISA Group for employees of any member of the ERISA Group.
Pricing Category
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Annex I.
Prime Rate
 means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMCB, as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City. Each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
14
Proposed Change
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.02(c).
Register
 has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04(b)(iv).
Related Parties
 means, with respect to any specified Person, such Persons Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, members, partners, trustees, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Persons Affiliates.
Representatives
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.12.
Required Lenders
 means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time;
provided
that for purposes of declaring the Loans to be due and payable pursuant to Article VII, and for all purposes after the Loans become due and payable pursuant to Article VII or the Commitments expire or terminate, the outstanding Competitive Loans of the Lenders shall be included in their respective Revolving Credit Exposures in determining the Required Lenders.
Restricted Subsidiary
 means each Subsidiary other than an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
Revolving Credit Exposure
 means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lenders Revolving Loans at such time.
Revolving Loan
 means a Loan made pursuant to Sections 2.01 and 2.03.
Shareholders Equity
 means, at any time, the consolidated shareholders equity of the Borrower that would be reported as shareholders equity on a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower prepared as of such time.
Significant Subsidiary
 means, as of each determination date, each Subsidiary with a book value of total assets, net of depreciation and amortization and after intercompany eliminations, in excess of $200,000,000.
Statutory Reserve Rate
 means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as Eurocurrency Liabilities in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
subsidiary
 means, with respect to any Person (the 
parent
) at any date, any
15
corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parents consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held.
Subsidiary
 means any subsidiary of the Borrower.
Syndication Agents
 means Citibank, N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, in their capacity as syndication agents hereunder.
Taxes
 means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Telecopy
 means telecopier, facsimile, or other similar means of transmission of documentation, including e-mail transmission of pdf files bearing, where required, appropriate signatures.
Termination Date
 means September 3, 2013.
Transactions
 means the execution, delivery and performance by the Loan Parties of this Agreement and the borrowing of Loans.
Type
, when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, the Alternate Base Rate or, in the case of a Competitive Loan or Borrowing, the LIBO Rate or a Fixed Rate.
Unfunded Liabilities
 means, with respect to any Plan at any time, the amount (if any) by which (i) the present value of all benefits under such Plan exceeds (ii) the fair market value of all Plan assets allocable to such benefits (excluding any accrued but unpaid contributions), all determined as of the then most recent valuation date for such Plan, but only to the extent that such excess represents a potential liability of a member of the ERISA Group to the PBGC or an appointed trustee under Title IV of ERISA.
Unrestricted Subsidiary
 means any Subsidiary designated as such pursuant to and in compliance with Section 1.06 and not thereafter redesignated as a Restricted Subsidiary pursuant to such Section;
provided
that no Significant Subsidiary, and no Subsidiary that owns any Equity Interests or Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary, shall be an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
USA PATRIOT Act
 means the USA PATRIOT Improvement and Reauthorization Act, Title III of Pub. L. 109177 (signed into law March 9, 2009, as amended from time to time).
16
US Dollars
 or 
$
 means the lawful money of the United States of America.
U.S. Tax Certificate
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.17(f)(ii)(D)(2).
Utilization Percentage
 means the percentage produced by dividing (i) the aggregate Revolving Credit Exposures by (ii) the aggregate Commitments;
provided
, that if the Commitments have been terminated, the Utilization Percentage shall at all times be 100%.
SECTION 1.02.
    
Classification of Loans and Borrowings.
For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (
e.g.
, a Revolving Loan) or by Type (
e.g.
, a Eurodollar Loan) or by Class and Type (
e.g.
, a Eurodollar Revolving Loan). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (
e.g.
, a Revolving Borrowing) or by Type (
e.g.
, a Eurodollar Borrowing) or by Class and Type (
e.g.
, a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing).
SECTION 1.03.
    
Terms Generally.
The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words include, includes and including shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase without limitation. The word will shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word shall. Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Persons successors and assigns, (c) the words herein, hereof and hereunder, and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits, Schedules and Annexes shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits, Schedules and Annexes to, this Agreement and (e) the words asset and property shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
SECTION 1.04.
    
Accounting Terms; GAAP.
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time;
provided
that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
17
SECTION 1.05.
    
[Intentionally Omitted]
SECTION 1.06.
    
Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
The Borrower may, at any time and from time to time, designate any Subsidiary (other than any Significant Subsidiary or any Subsidiary that shall own any Equity Interests or Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary) as an Unrestricted Subsidiary by delivery of a written notice of such designation to the Administrative Agent;
provided
that (a) no Default shall exist at the time of any such designation and (b) after giving effect to such designation, the aggregate assets of all Unrestricted Subsidiaries shall not exceed 15% of Consolidated Assets. The Borrower may, at any time and from time to time, designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary as a Restricted Subsidiary by delivery of written notice of such designation to the Administrative Agent. If, as of the end of any fiscal quarter, the aggregate combined assets of all Unrestricted Subsidiaries shall exceed 15% of Consolidated Assets, then the Borrower shall, not later than 30 days after the delivery of the certificate referred to in Section 5.01(c) with respect to such fiscal quarter, eliminate such excess by designating one or more Unrestricted Subsidiaries as Restricted Subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credits
SECTION 2.01.
    
Commitments.
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period in US Dollars in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (a) such Lenders Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lenders Commitment or (b) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans exceeding the total Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, repay and reborrow Revolving Loans.
SECTION 2.02.
    
Loans and Borrowings.
(a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. Each Competitive Loan shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.04. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder;
provided
that the Commitments and Competitive Bids of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lenders failure to make Loans as required.
(b)
    
Subject to Section 2.14, (i) each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith, and (ii) each Competitive Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Eurodollar Loans or Fixed Rate Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan;
provided
that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
(c)
    
At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral
18
multiple of $5,000,000 and not less than $25,000,000. At the time that each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $5,000,000 and not less than $25,000,000;
provided
that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments. Each Competitive Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $5,000,000 and not less than $25,000,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time;
provided
that there shall not at any time be more than a total of 15 Eurodollar Revolving Borrowings outstanding.
(d)
    
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
SECTION 2.03.
    
Requests for Revolving Borrowings.
To request a Revolving Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time on the Business Day of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or Telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i)
    
the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii)
    
the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii)
    
whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
(iv)
    
in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term Interest Period.
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one months duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lenders Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
SECTION 2.04.
    
Competitive Bid Procedure
. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, from time to time during the Availability Period the Borrower may request Competitive Bids and may (but shall not have any obligation to) accept Competitive Bids and borrow Competitive Loans;
provided
that the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures
19
plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans at any time shall not exceed the total Commitments. To request Competitive Bids, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, four Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing and, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing;
provided
that the Borrower may submit up to (but not more than) five Competitive Bid Requests on the same day, but a Competitive Bid Request shall not be made within five Business Days after the date of any previous Competitive Bid Request, unless any and all such previous Competitive Bid Requests shall have been withdrawn or all Competitive Bids received in response thereto rejected. Each such telephonic Competitive Bid Request shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or Telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Competitive Bid Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Competitive Bid Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i)
    
the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii)
    
the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii)
    
whether such Borrowing is to be a Eurodollar Borrowing or a Fixed Rate Borrowing;
(iv)
    
the Interest Period to be applicable to such Borrowing, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term Interest Period; and
(v)
    
the location and number of the Borrowers account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.07.
Promptly following receipt of a Competitive Bid Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of the details thereof by Telecopy, inviting the Lenders to submit Competitive Bids.
(b)
    
Each Lender may (but shall not have any obligation to) make one or more Competitive Bids to the Borrower in response to a Competitive Bid Request. Each Competitive Bid by a Lender must be in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and must be received by the Administrative Agent by Telecopy, in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing, and in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing. Competitive Bids that do not conform substantially to the form approved by the Administrative Agent may be rejected by the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall notify the applicable Lender as promptly as practicable. Each Competitive Bid shall specify (i) the principal amount (which shall be a minimum of $5,000,000 and an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and which may equal the entire principal amount of the Competitive Borrowing requested by the Borrower) of the Competitive Loan or Loans that the Lender is willing to make, (ii) the Competitive Bid Rate
20
or Rates at which the Lender is prepared to make such Loan or Loans (expressed as a percentage rate per annum in the form of a decimal to no more than four decimal places) and (iii) the Interest Period applicable to each such Loan and the last day thereof.
(c)
    
The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower by Telecopy of the Competitive Bid Rate and the principal amount specified in each Competitive Bid and the identity of the Lender that shall have made such Competitive Bid.
(d)
    
Subject only to the provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower may accept or reject any Competitive Bid. The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone, confirmed by Telecopy, whether and to what extent it has decided to accept or reject each Competitive Bid, in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Competitive Borrowing, and in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the proposed date of the Competitive Borrowing;
provided
that (i) the failure of the Borrower to give such notice shall be deemed to be a rejection of each Competitive Bid, (ii) the Borrower shall not accept a Competitive Bid made at a particular Competitive Bid Rate if the Borrower rejects a Competitive Bid made at a lower Competitive Bid Rate, (iii) the aggregate amount of the Competitive Bids accepted by the Borrower shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the requested Competitive Borrowing specified in the related Competitive Bid Request, (iv) to the extent necessary to comply with clause (iii) above, the Borrower may accept Competitive Bids at the same Competitive Bid Rate in part, which acceptance, in the case of multiple Competitive Bids at such Competitive Bid Rate, shall be made pro rata in accordance with the amount of each such Competitive Bid, and (v) except pursuant to clause (iv) above, no Competitive Bid shall be accepted for a Competitive Loan unless such Competitive Loan is in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 and an integral multiple of $1,000,000;
provided further
that if a Competitive Loan must be in an amount less than $5,000,000 because of the provisions of clause (iv) above, such Competitive Loan may be for a minimum of $1,000,000 or any integral multiple thereof, and in calculating the pro rata allocation of acceptances of portions of multiple Competitive Bids at a particular Competitive Bid Rate pursuant to clause (iv) the amounts shall be rounded to integral multiples of $1,000,000 in a manner determined by the Borrower. A notice given by the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph shall be irrevocable.
(e)
    
The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each bidding Lender by Telecopy whether or not its Competitive Bid has been accepted (and, if so, the amount and Competitive Bid Rate so accepted), and each successful bidder will thereupon become bound, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, to make the Competitive Loan in respect of which its Competitive Bid has been accepted.
(f)
    
If the Administrative Agent shall elect to submit a Competitive Bid in its capacity as a Lender, it shall submit such Competitive Bid directly to the Borrower at least one quarter of an hour earlier than the time by which the other Lenders are required to submit their Competitive Bids to the Administrative Agent pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section.
SECTION 2.05.
    
[Intentionally Omitted]
21
SECTION 2.06.
    
[Intentionally Omitted]
SECTION 2.07.
    
Funding of Borrowings.
(a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to the Designated Payment Account.
(b)
    
Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lenders share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Effective Rate. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lenders Loan included in such Borrowing.
SECTION 2.08.
    
Interest Elections.
(a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request or as otherwise provided in Section 2.03. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Competitive Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
(b)
    
To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or Telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower.
(c)
    
Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
22
(i)
    
the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii)
    
the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii)
    
whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
(iv)
    
if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term Interest Period.
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one months duration.
(d)
    
Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lenders portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e)
    
If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
SECTION 2.09.
    
Termination and Reduction of Commitments.
(a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Termination Date.
(b)
    
The Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments;
provided
that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $5,000,000 and not less than $25,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.11, the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans would exceed the total Commitments.
23
(c)
    
The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable;
provided
that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
SECTION 2.10.
    
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt; Extension of Maturity Date.
(a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan on the Maturity Date and (ii) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Loan on the last day of the Interest Period applicable to such Loan.
(b)
    
Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c)
    
The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lenders share thereof.
(d)
    
The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be
prima
facie
evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein;
provided
that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
(e)
    
Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form reasonably approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 10.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
24
(f)
    
The Borrower may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly deliver a copy to each of the Lenders) given not less than 45 days and not more than 60 days prior to the Termination Date, extend the Maturity Date to a date not later than the first anniversary of the Termination Date;
provided
that any such extension of the Maturity Date shall be subject to the satisfaction, on and as of the Termination Date, of the following conditions:
(i)
    
the representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in Article III (other than those set forth in Sections 3.04(b), 3.06, 3.09 and 3.10) shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Termination Date; and
(ii)
    
immediately before and after the Termination Date, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
An extension of the Maturity Date as set forth herein shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower on and as of the Termination Date as to the matters specified in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this Section 2.10(f). Loans repaid or prepaid after the Termination Date may not be reborrowed.
SECTION 2.11.
    
Prepayment of Loans.
(a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay or repay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section;
provided
that the Borrower shall not have the right to prepay any Competitive Loan without the prior consent of the Lender thereof.
(b)
    
In the event and on each occasion that the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures exceeds the sum of the Commitments, the Borrower shall not later than the next Business Day prepay Revolving Borrowings in an aggregate amount equal to such excess.
(c)
    
The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by Telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment or (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of prepayment;
provided
that in the case of any prepayment required to be made within one Business Day under paragraph (b) above the Borrower will give such notice as soon as practicable. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid;
provided
that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.09, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.09. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02. Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.13 and payments, if any, pursuant to
25
Section 2.16.
SECTION 2.12.
    
Fees.
(a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Commitment Fee Rate on the average daily unused amount of the Commitment of such Lender during the period from and including the date of this Agreement to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates. Accrued commitment fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Commitments terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof. All commitment fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
(b)
    
On the Termination Date, the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a term-out fee equal to 1.0% of the outstanding amount of such Lenders Loans that are not repaid on the Termination Date.
(c)
    
The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
(d)
    
All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of commitment fees and participation fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
SECTION 2.13.
    
Interest.
(a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
(b)
    
The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest (i) in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Loan, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Margin, or (ii) in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Loan, at the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus (or minus, as applicable) the Margin applicable to such Loan.
(c)
    
Each Fixed Rate Loan shall bear interest at the Fixed Rate applicable to such Loan.
(d)
    
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% per annum plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% per annum plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(e)
    
Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and, in the case of Revolving Loans, upon termination of the
26
Commitments;
provided
that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
(f)
    
All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
SECTION 2.14.
    
Alternate Rate of Interest.
If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing:
(a)
    
the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period; or
(b)
    
the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders (or, in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Loan, the Lender that is required to make such Loan) that the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or Telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be ineffective and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing;
provided
that if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect only one Type of Borrowings, then the other Type of Borrowings shall be permitted.
SECTION 2.15.
    
Increased Costs.
(a) If any Change in Law shall:
(i)
    
impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate); or
27
(ii)
    
impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans or Fixed Rate Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) by an amount deemed by that Lender in good faith to be material, then the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b)
    
If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lenders capital or on the capital of such Lenders holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by such Lender to a level below that which such Lender or such Lenders holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lenders policies and the policies of such Lenders holding company with respect to capital adequacy), in each case by an amount deemed by that Lender in good faith to be material, then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lenders holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c)
    
A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section and setting forth the basis for the determination thereof, together with supporting calculations, shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. In determining such amount or amounts, such Lender shall act reasonably and in good faith, and may use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 Business Days after receipt thereof.
(d)
    
Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lenders right to demand such compensation;
provided
that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 90 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lenders intention to claim compensation therefor;
provided
further
that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 90day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
(e)
    
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, a Lender shall not be entitled to compensation pursuant to this Section in respect of any Competitive Loan if the Change in Law that would otherwise entitle it to such compensation shall have been publicly announced prior to submission of the Competitive Bid pursuant to which such Loan was made.
SECTION 2.16.
    
Break Funding Payments.
In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable
28
thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.11(c) and is revoked in accordance therewith), (d) the failure to borrow any Competitive Loan after accepting the Competitive Bid to make such Loan, or (e) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.19, then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each affected Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event (which loss, cost or expense will not be deemed to include lost profit). In the case of a Eurodollar Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate (without adding thereto the Applicable Margin) that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for US Dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section and setting forth the basis for the determination thereof, together with supporting calculations, shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. In determining such amount or amounts, such Lender shall act reasonably and in good faith. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 Business Days after receipt thereof.
SECTION 2.17.
    
Taxes.
(a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes;
provided
that if the Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(b)
    
In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c)
    
The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender within 10 Business Days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom
29
or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower and setting forth the basis for the determination thereof, by a Lender or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(d)
    
Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Administrative Agent for any Taxes (but, in the case of any Indemnified Taxes, only to the extent that the Borrower has not already indemnified the Administrative Agent for such Indemnified Taxes and without limiting the obligation of the Borrower to do so) attributable to such Lender that are paid or payable by the Administrative Agent in connection with this Agreement and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The indemnity under this Section 2.17(d) shall be paid within 10 Business Days after the Administrative Agent delivers to the applicable Lender a certificate stating the amount of Taxes so paid or payable by the Administrative Agent. Such certificate shall be conclusive of the amount so paid or payable absent manifest error.
(e)
    
As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of that portion of the tax return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(f)
    
(i) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to any withholding (including backup withholding) or information reporting requirements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding two sentences, the completion, execution and submission of such documentation (other than such documentation set forth in Section 2.17(f)(ii)(A) through (E) below) shall not be required if in the Lender's judgment such completion, execution or submission would subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense or would materially prejudice the legal or commercial position of such Lender. Upon the reasonable request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, any Lender shall update any form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this Section 2.17(f). If any form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this Section expires or becomes obsolete or inaccurate in any respect with respect to a Lender, such Lender shall promptly (and in any event within 10 Business Days after such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy) notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in writing of such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy and
30
update the form or certification if it is legally eligible to do so.
(ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Borrower is a U.S. Person, any Lender with respect to the Borrower shall, if it is legally eligible to do so, deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies reasonably requested by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent) on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a party hereto, duly completed and executed copies of whichever of the following is applicable:
(A) in the case of a Lender that is a U.S. Person, IRS Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is exempt from U.S. Federal backup withholding tax;
(B) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party (1) with respect to payments of interest under this Agreement, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax pursuant to the interest article of such tax treaty and (2) with respect to any other applicable payments under this Agreement, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax pursuant to the business profits or other income article of such tax treaty;
(C) in the case of a Foreign Lender for whom payments under this Agreement constitute income that is effectively connected with such Lenders conduct of a trade or business in the United States, IRS Form W-8ECI;
(D) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code both (1) IRS Form W-8BEN and (2) a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit D (a 
U.S. Tax Certificate
) to the effect that such Lender is not (a) a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (b) a 10 percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code (c) a controlled foreign corporation described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (d) conducting a trade or business in the United States with which the relevant interest payments are effectively connected;
(E) in the case of a Foreign Lender that is not the beneficial owner of payments made under this Agreement (including a partnership or a participating Lender) (1) an IRS Form W-8IMY on behalf of itself and (2) the relevant forms prescribed in clauses (A), (B), (C), (D) and (F) of this paragraph (f)(ii) that would be required of each such beneficial owner or partner of such partnership if such beneficial owner or partner were a Lender;
provided
,
however
, that if the Lender is a partnership and one or more of its partners are claiming the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code, such Lender may provide a U.S. Tax Certificate on behalf of such partners; or
(F) any other form prescribed by law as a basis for claiming exemption from, or a reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax together with such supplementary documentation necessary to enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine the amount of Tax (if any) required by law to be withheld.
31
(iii) If a payment made to a Lender under this Agreement would be subject to U.S. Federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, as may be necessary for the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has or has not complied with such Lenders obligations under FATCA and, as necessary, to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this Section 2.17(f)(iii), FATCA shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
(g)
    
If the Administrative Agent or a Lender determines that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund) within thirty days;
provided
, that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event such Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
SECTION 2.18.
    
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Setoffs.
(a) The Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest or fees, or of amounts payable under Section 2.15, 2.16 or 2.17, or otherwise) prior to 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without setoff or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York, except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 10.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such
32
extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in US Dollars except as expressly provided herein.
(b)
    
If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties.
(c)
    
If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans;
provided
that (i) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
(d)
    
Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
(e)
    
If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.07(b) or 2.18(d), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lenders obligations under
33
such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
SECTION 2.19.
    
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
(a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign and delegate its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or Affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment and delegation (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.15 or 2.17, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment and delegation.
(b)
    
If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, or if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 10.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement (other than any outstanding Competitive Loans held by it) to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment);
provided
that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans (other than Competitive Loans), accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.15 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.17, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. Each party hereto agrees that an assignment and delegation required pursuant to this paragraph may be effected pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption executed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the assignee and that the Lender required to make such assignment and delegation need not be a party thereto.
SECTION 2.20.
    
Defaulting Lenders
. (a) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
(i)
    
the commitment fee shall cease to accrue on the unused amount of the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.12(a); and
(ii)
    
the Commitment and Revolving Credit Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included in determining whether the Required Lenders or any other requisite Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder or under any related
34
agreement or any document furnished hereunder (including any consent to any amendment, waiver or other modification pursuant to Section 10.02);
provided
that any amendment, waiver or other modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or all Lenders affected thereby shall, except as otherwise provided in Section 10.02, require the consent of such Defaulting Lender in accordance with the terms hereof.
(b)
    
In the event that the Administrative Agent and the Borrower each agree that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then the Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders shall be readjusted to reflect the inclusion of such Lenders Commitment and on such date such Lender shall purchase at par such of the Revolving Loans of the other Lenders as the Administrative Agent shall determine may be necessary in order for such Lender to hold such Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
ARTICLE III
Representations and Warranties
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders that:
SECTION 3.01.
    
Organization; Powers.
The Borrower and the Guarantor is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization. Each Significant Subsidiary is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, in each case except where the failure to be so organized, existing or in good standing will not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. The Borrower and each Restricted Subsidiary has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and is duly qualified to transact business in all jurisdictions where such qualification is necessary, in each case except where the failure to have such authority, or to be so qualified will not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.02.
    
Authorization; Enforceability.
The Transactions to be entered into by each Loan Party are within such Loan Partys corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and stockholder action. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each Loan Party, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
SECTION 3.03.
    
Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts.
The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with or any other action by any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect and (b) will not violate, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or the charter, bylaws or other organizational documents of the Borrower or any of the Restricted Subsidiaries or any order of any Governmental Authority or any indenture, any material agreement, instrument, judgment or order to which the Borrower or any Restricted
35
Subsidiary is a party or by which it or any of its material assets or properties may be bound or affected which would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.04.
    
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change.
(a) The Borrower has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (i) as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, reported on by Deloitte & Touche LLP, and (ii) as of and for the fiscal quarter and the portion of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP and, in the case of the statements referred to in clause (ii) above, subject to yearend audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
(b)
    
Since December 31, 2011, other than as specifically disclosed in the Borrowers filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, there has been no event or condition that would be reasonably likely to result in a material adverse effect on the business, assets, operations or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
SECTION 3.05.
    
Properties.
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have sufficient title to, or sufficient and valid interests in, their respective properties to conduct their business as currently conducted, except where the failure to have such title or interests will not be reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.06.
    
Litigation and Environmental Matters.
Other than as specifically disclosed in the Borrowers filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
(a)
    
There are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened against or affecting the Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (i) as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination and that, if adversely determined, would be reasonably likely, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) that involve this Agreement or the Transactions.
(b)
    
The financial statements described in Section 3.04 provide certain information regarding the current and potential obligations arising from various consent decrees, cleanup and abatement orders, and current or potential proceedings pertaining to actual or alleged soil and water contamination, disposal of hazardous wastes, and other environmental matters related to properties currently owned by the Borrower or its Restricted Subsidiaries, previously owned properties, and other properties. Since December 31, 2011, environmental matters have not caused any material adverse change in the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries from that shown by the financial statements prepared as of that date.
(c)
    
In the ordinary course of business, the ongoing operations of the Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries are reviewed from time to time to determine compliance with
36
applicable Environmental Laws. Based on these reviews, to the knowledge of the Borrower, ongoing operations at the principal properties of the Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries are currently being conducted in substantial compliance with applicable Environmental Laws except to the extent noncompliance would not be reasonably likely to result in material adverse change in the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries.
SECTION 3.07.
    
No Defaults.
There are no Material Payment Defaults of the Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries under Funded Debt Agreements, other than Funded Debt Agreements governing an aggregate principal amount of Funded Debt which is not in excess of $150,000,000.
SECTION 3.08.
    
Investment and Holding Company Status.
Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is an investment company as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
SECTION 3.09.
    
Taxes.
The Borrower and each Subsidiary has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so would not be reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.10.
    
ERISA.
Each member of the ERISA Group has fulfilled its obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan and is in substantial compliance in all material respects with the presently applicable material provisions of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan. No member of the ERISA Group has (i) sought a waiver of the minimum funding standard under Section 412 of the Code in respect of any Plan, (ii) failed to make any contribution or payment to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or made any amendment to any Plan which, in either case has resulted or could result in the imposition of a material Lien or the posting of a material bond or other material security under ERISA or the Code or (iii) incurred any material liability under Title IV of ERISA other than a liability to the PBGC for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA.
SECTION 3.11.
    
Disclosure.
All information furnished to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in writing prior to the date hereof in connection with the Transactions (including any formal presentation slides, and in each case as modified or supplemented by other information furnished to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders) does not contain any material misstatement of fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
provided
that, with respect to any projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
SECTION 3.12.
    
Use of Proceeds.
The Borrower will use the proceeds of the Loans for general corporate purposes of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries (which may include the repayment of debt, repurchase or redemption of the Borrowers common stock,
37
working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and any other general corporate purpose).
SECTION 3.13.
    
Margin Stock.
No proceeds of any Loan will be used in a manner that violates any provision of Regulation U or X of the Board.
SECTION 3.14.
    
Pari Passu Obligations.
Under applicable United States laws (including state and local laws) in force at the date hereof, the claims and rights of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent against the Borrower under this Agreement will not be subordinate to, and will rank at least
pari
passu
with, the claims and rights of any other unsecured creditors of the Borrower (except to the extent provided by bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other similar laws of general application relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors rights and by general principles of equity).
ARTICLE IV
Conditions
SECTION 4.01.
    
Effective Date.
This Agreement shall become effective on the date on which the following conditions have been satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 10.02) (the 
Effective Date
):
(a)
    
The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include Telecopy transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
(b)
    
The Administrative Agent shall have received favorable written opinions (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of (i)  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of
Exhibit B-1
, and (ii) Jennifer C. McGarey, Esq., Corporate Vice President and Secretary, substantially in the form of
Exhibit B-2
. The Borrower hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinions.
(c)
    
The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of each Loan Party, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Loan Parties, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(d)
    
The representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in Article III shall be true and correct in all material respects, and no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
(e)
    
The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other
38
amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed by the Borrower hereunder.
(f)
    
The commitments under the Existing Credit Agreement shall have been terminated simultaneously with or prior to the effectiveness of this Agreement and all amounts owing thereunder shall have been paid in full.
(g)
    
The Lenders shall have received all documentation and other information required by bank regulatory authorities under applicable know your customer and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties hereto and following such notice, none of the conditions set forth in this Section 4.01 shall be of further application.
SECTION 4.02.
    
Each Credit Event.
The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
(a)
    
The representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in Article III (other than Sections 3.04(b), 3.06, 3.09 and 3.10) shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing.
(b)
    
At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
ARTICLE V
Affirmative Covenants
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 5.01.
    
Financial Statements and Other Information.
The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent for distribution to each Lender:
(a)
    
within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, accompanied by an opinion of Deloitte & Touche LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing as to such consolidated financial statements;
39
(b)
    
within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year;
(c)
    
within 105 days following the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, and within 60 days following the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Section 6.03 as of the date of the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower included in such financial statements and (iii) setting forth a reasonably detailed calculation of the aggregate combined assets of all Unrestricted Subsidiaries as of the date of the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower included in such financial statements;
(d)
    
promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports and proxy statements filed by the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of said Commission, or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by the Borrower to its shareholders generally, as the case may be; and
(e)
    
promptly following any request therefor, subject to restrictions imposed by any Governmental Authority, such other existing information regarding the business and financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as any Lender may request through the Administrative Agent.
Information required to be delivered pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b) or (d) of this Section shall be deemed to have been delivered to each Lender on the date on which the Borrower posts such reports on the Borrowers website at http://www.northropgrumman.com or when such report is posted on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at http://www.sec.gov. Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section may also be delivered by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent.
SECTION 5.02.
    
Notices of Material Events.
The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender prompt written notice of the following:
(a)
    
the occurrence of any Default; and
(b)
    
the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary that is reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Borrower setting forth the details of the event or
40
development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
SECTION 5.03.
    
Existence; Conduct of Business.
The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Restricted Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of its business, provided that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.02. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the termination of the business or existence of any Subsidiary which in the judgment of the Borrower is no longer necessary or desirable, a merger or consolidation of a Subsidiary into or with the Borrower (if the Borrower is the surviving corporation) or any Restricted Subsidiary, the sale of any Subsidiary if in the judgment of the Borrower such sale is in the interest of the Borrower, or any merger, consolidation or transfer of assets not prohibited by Section 6.02, so long as immediately after giving effect to any such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
SECTION 5.04.
    
Payment of Obligations.
The Borrower will pay and discharge, and will cause each Restricted Subsidiary to pay and discharge, all material Taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its income or profits, or upon any property belonging to it, prior to the date on which penalties attach thereto, and all lawful material claims which, if unpaid, might become a Lien upon the property of the Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary;
provided
that
neither the Borrower nor any such Restricted Subsidiary shall be required to pay any such Tax, assessment, charge, levy or claim (i) the payment of which is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings, (ii) not yet delinquent or (iii) the nonpayment of which, if taken in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 5.05.
    
Insurance.
The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Restricted Subsidiaries to maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations or, to the customary extent, selfinsurance.
SECTION 5.06.
    
Inspection Rights.
The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice and subject to restrictions imposed by any Governmental Authority and customer confidentiality agreements, and during normal business hours, to visit and inspect its major properties and to examine its books and records, all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested, provided that the exercise of rights under this Section shall not unreasonably interfere with the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
SECTION 5.07.
    
Compliance with Laws.
The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Restricted Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and lawful orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
41
SECTION 5.08.
    
Incorporation by Reference
. If and for so long as any Capital Markets Agreement evidencing or governing Capital Markets Debt in respect of which the Borrower or any Person which is then a Guarantor is the primary obligor or a guarantor contains any covenant limiting Indebtedness of Subsidiaries (other than any financial ratio covenant limiting consolidated Indebtedness of the Borrower and not limiting Indebtedness of Subsidiaries to a greater extent than Indebtedness of the Borrower), such covenant shall automatically be, and hereby is, incorporated by reference into this Article V in its entirety as in effect from time to time,
mutatis
mutandis
, with the same effect as if set forth in full herein (and subject to any applicable periods of grace or cure which are applied thereto in the relevant Capital Markets Agreement), with the defined terms used therein, including defined terms used in other defined terms, having the meanings assigned to them in such Capital Markets Agreement, but with references in such covenant or in the definitions employed therein to such Capital Markets Agreement being deemed references to this Agreement, references to the indebtedness under such Capital Markets Agreement being deemed references to the Obligations and references to holders of such Capital Markets Debt being deemed references to the Lenders. As of the Effective Date, the only Capital Markets Agreement containing terms incorporated herein by this Section is the Indenture, dated as of October 15, 1994, between the Northrop Grumman Corporation (now known as Northrop Grumman Systems Corporation) and The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), as Trustee (to whom The Bank of New York Mellon is successor trustee). If any Capital Markets Agreement containing a covenant incorporated herein by the preceding sentence shall terminate, or if no Capital Markets Debt shall be outstanding thereunder, then such covenant shall be deemed no longer to be incorporated herein (unless Capital Markets Debt shall again be outstanding under such Capital Markets Agreement, in which case such covenant shall again be incorporated by reference herein).
ARTICLE VI
Negative Covenants
Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 6.01.
    
Liens.
The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, or assign or sell any income or revenues (including accounts receivable) or rights in respect of any thereof, except:
(a)
    
Permitted Encumbrances;
(b)
    
any Lien on any property or asset of the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary existing on the date hereof;
(c)
    
any Lien existing on any property or asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary, whether or not any Indebtedness secured by such Liens is assumed by the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary;
42
(d)
    
Liens securing Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary owing to the Borrower or another Restricted Subsidiary;
(e)
    
Liens on assets existing at the time of acquisition of such assets by the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary, or Liens to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price of assets upon the acquisition of such assets by the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary or to secure any Indebtedness incurred or guaranteed by the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary prior to, at the time of, or within one year after the later of the acquisition, completion of construction (including any improvements on an existing asset) or commencement of full operation of such asset, which Indebtedness is incurred or guaranteed for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof or construction or improvements thereon, and which Indebtedness may be in the form of obligations incurred in connection with industrial revenue bonds or similar financings and letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds or similar contingent liability instruments issued in connection therewith;
provided
,
however
, that in the case of any such acquisition, construction or improvement, the Lien shall not apply to any asset theretofore owned by the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary, other than, in the case of any such construction or improvement, any theretofore unimproved real property on which the property so constructed or the improvement made is located;
(f)
    
Liens created in favor of the United States of America or any department or agency thereof or any other contracting party or customer in connection with advance or progress payments or similar forms of vendor financing or incentive arrangements;
(g)
    
Liens arising by operation of law in favor of any lender to the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary constituting a bankers lien or right of offset in moneys of the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary deposited with such lender in the ordinary course of business;
(h)
    
Liens on cash or certificates of deposit or other bank obligations in an amount substantially equal in value (at the time such Liens are created) to, and securing, obligations in respect of letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds or similar contingent liability instruments, incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(i)
    
Liens securing the Obligations and Liens securing the Obligations and any other Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on an equal and ratable basis;
(j)
    
any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any Lien referred to in the foregoing; provided, however, that the principal amount of Indebtedness secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Indebtedness so secured at the
43
time of such extension, renewal or replacement, and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or part of the assets which were the subject of the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements and construction on such assets); and
(k)
    
other Liens securing Indebtedness;
provided
that the aggregate principal amount of all Indebtedness of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries that is secured by Liens permitted by this clause (k) shall not exceed at any time the greater of (i) 7.5% of Shareholders Equity as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter and (ii) $1,000,000,000.
SECTION 6.02.
    
Fundamental Changes.
(a) The Borrower will not consolidate with or merge into any other Person, or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless: (i) the Borrower or another solvent corporation that is incorporated under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia is the surviving corporation of any such consolidation or merger or is the Person that acquires by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of the Borrower substantially as an entirety; (ii) if a Person other than the Borrower is the surviving corporation as described in clause (i) above or is the Person that acquires the property and assets of the Borrower substantially as an entirety, it shall expressly assume the performance of every obligation and covenant of this Agreement on the part of the Borrower to be performed or observed; (iii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and (iv) if the Borrower is not the surviving or acquiring corporation, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of clause (C) below, each Lender), (A) a certificate of a Financial Officer and an opinion of its General Counsel, each stating that such transaction complies with this Section and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with, (B) evidence of authority and legal opinions in respect of the surviving or acquiring corporation comparable to those delivered under Section 4.01(b) and reasonably satisfactory to it, and (C) all documentation and other information in respect of the surviving or acquiring corporation required by bank regulatory authorities under applicable know your customer and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act.
(b)
    
Upon any consolidation by the Borrower with, or merger by the Borrower into, any Person described in Section 6.02(a)(i) or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of the Borrower substantially as an entirety to any Person described in Section 6.02(a)(i), such Person into which the Borrower is merged or consolidated or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of the Borrower under this Agreement with the same effect as if such Person had been named as the Borrower herein, and thereafter, in the case of a transfer or conveyance permitted by Section 6.02(a), the Borrower shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Agreement.
SECTION 6.03.
    
Consolidated Debt to Capitalization Ratio.
The Borrower will not permit the ratio of (i) Consolidated Debt to (ii) the sum of Consolidated Debt and
44
Shareholders Equity as of the last day of any fiscal quarter to exceed 65.0%.
ARTICLE VII
Events of Default
If any of the following events (
Events of Default
) shall occur:
(a)
    
the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b)
    
the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 5 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent;
(c)
    
the Borrower shall fail to pay within 30 days after written request for payment by any Lender acting through the Administrative Agent any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) or (b) of this Article) payable under this Agreement;
(d)
    
any representation or warranty made by the Borrower or the Guarantor in Article III of this Agreement or any certificate or writing furnished pursuant to this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made and the facts and circumstances giving rise to such deficiency shall remain unremedied for 5 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of the Required Lenders;
(e)
    
the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant or agreement contained in Section 1.06 or Article VI;
(f)
    
the Borrower shall fail to perform any covenant or agreement incorporated by reference by Section 5.08 within the period of grace or cure (if any) provided by the Capital Markets Agreement from which the applicable covenant or agreement is incorporated;
(g)
    
any Loan Party shall fail to observe or perform any covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those specified in clause (a), (b), (c), (e) or (f) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after written notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower (which notice will be given at the request of the Required Lenders);
(h)
    
Funded Debt in an aggregate principal amount which is in excess of $200,000,000 shall become due before its stated maturity by the acceleration of
45
the maturity thereof by reason of default, or Funded Debt in an aggregate principal amount which is in excess of $200,000,000 shall become due by its terms and shall not be paid and, in any case aforesaid in this clause (h), corrective action satisfactory to the Required Lenders shall not be taken within 5 days after written notice of the situation shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of the Required Lenders;
(i)
    
an involuntary case or other proceeding shall be commenced against the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to its debts under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or seeking the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any substantial part of its property, and, such involuntary case or other proceeding shall remain undismissed and unstayed for a period of 90 days, or an order for relief shall be entered against the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary under any such bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect;
(j)
    
the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any case or other proceeding described in clause (i) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) admit in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any corporate action to authorize any of the foregoing;
(k)
    
(i) a final judgment for the payment of money in excess of $200,000,000, excluding (A) any amounts covered by insurance as to which the insurance company shall have acknowledged coverage so long as such insurance company is not a captive insurance subsidiary of the Borrower and (B) the amount of any judgment against a Significant Subsidiary that exceeds the fair market value of the assets of such Significant Subsidiary (but only if neither the Borrower nor any other Significant Subsidiary is directly or contingently liable therefor), shall have been entered against the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary and (ii) the Borrower or such Significant Subsidiary shall not satisfy the same within 60 days, or cause execution thereon to be stayed within 60 days, and such failure to satisfy or stay such judgment shall remain unremedied for 5 days after notice thereof shall be given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of the Required Lenders;
(l)
    
(i) the termination of, or the imposition of liability (other than for
46
premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) under Title IV of ERISA in respect of, or the appointment of a trustee under Title IV of ERISA to administer, any Plan or Plans having aggregate Unfunded Liabilities in excess of $200,000,000 or (ii) the imposition of withdrawal liability to a Multiemployer Plan involving a current payment obligation in excess of $200,000,000, which, in either case, results in an immediately due legal liability in excess of $200,000,000 which has not been satisfied within 60 days and such failure to satisfy is unremedied for 5 days after notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of the Required Lenders;
(m)
    
the guarantee of the Guarantor under Article IX shall not be (or shall be asserted by any Loan Party not to be) valid or in full force and effect except in connection with a termination of such guarantee in accordance with Section 9.02 or Section 10.14;
(n)
    
a Change in Control shall occur; or
(o)
    
any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing under the 5-Year Credit Agreement.
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (i) or (j) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent shall, if requested by the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (i) or (j) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower. Nothing in this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any rights or remedies the Lenders may otherwise have, including setoff rights.
47
ARTICLE VIII
The Administrative Agent
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent (and its successors) as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing as directed by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 10.02),
provided
that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion, could expose the Administrative Agent to liability or be contrary to this Agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation, and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or other Affiliates thereof that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 10.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the sufficiency, validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
48
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person (whether or not such Person in fact meets the requirements set forth herein for being the signatory or sender thereof). The Administrative Agent also may rely, and shall not incur any liability for relying, upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person (whether or not such Person in fact meets the requirements set forth herein for being the signatory or sender thereof), and may act upon any such statement prior to receipt of written confirmation thereof. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as the Administrative Agent.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may (in consultation with, and (unless an Event of Default of the types described in paragraph (i) or (j) of Article VII has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Borrower) with the consent of the Borrower, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld), on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the Administrative Agents resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 10.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon
49
the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, or any of the Related Parties of any of the foregoing, and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Each Lender, by delivering its signature page to this Agreement, or to an Assignment and Assumption or any other document pursuant to which it shall become a Lender hereunder, shall be deemed to have acknowledged receipt of and consented to each document delivered to, or required to be approved by or satisfactory to, the Administrative Agent or the Lenders on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender.
It is agreed that the Syndication Agents and the institutions named on the cover of this Agreement as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners shall, in their capacities as such, have no duties or responsibilities under or liability in connection with this Agreement, but all such Persons shall have the benefit of the indemnities provided hereunder. None of the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agents or such Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, in their capacities as such, shall have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any Lender.
ARTICLE IX
Guarantee
SECTION 9.01.
    
Guarantee.
In order to induce the Lenders to extend credit to the Borrower hereunder, the Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees the due and punctual payment of the Obligations. The Guarantor further agrees that the Obligations may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice to or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound upon its guarantee hereunder notwithstanding any such extension or renewal of any Obligation. This guarantee is subject to release in the manner described in Section 9.02.
The Guarantor waives presentment to, demand of payment from and protest to the Borrower of any of the Obligations, and also waives notice of acceptance of its obligations and notice of protest for nonpayment. The obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall not be affected by (a) the failure of any Lender to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against the Borrower under the provisions of this Agreement or otherwise; (b) any extension or renewal of any of the Obligations; (c) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of, or release from, the Obligations or any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement; (d) the failure or delay of any Lender to exercise any right or remedy against any other guarantor of the Obligations; (e) the failure of any Lender to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any remedy under this Agreement or any other agreement or instrument; (f) any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the Obligations; or (g) any other act, omission or delay to do any other act which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of the Guarantor or otherwise operate as a discharge of the Guarantor as a
50
matter of law or equity or which would impair or eliminate any right of the Guarantor to subrogation.
The Guarantor further agrees that its guarantee hereunder constitutes a promise of payment when due, subject to applicable periods of grace (whether or not any bankruptcy or similar proceeding shall have stayed the accrual or collection of any of the Obligations or operated as a discharge thereof) and not merely of collection, and waives any right to require that any resort be had by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of any Lender or the Administrative Agent in favor of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any other Person.
The obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason, and shall not be subject to any defense or setoff, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever, by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Obligations, any impossibility in the performance of the Obligations or otherwise.
The Guarantor further agrees that its obligations hereunder shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of any Obligation is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Lender upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower or otherwise.
In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right which any Lender or the Administrative Agent may have at law or in equity against the Guarantor by virtue hereof, upon the failure of the Borrower to pay any Obligation when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, after notice of prepayment or otherwise, the Guarantor hereby promises to and will, upon receipt of written demand by the Administrative Agent, forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, to the Administrative Agent, for distribution to the Lenders or the Administrative Agent, as appropriate, in cash an amount equal the unpaid principal amount of such Obligation.
Upon payment in full by the Guarantor of any Obligation of the Borrower, each Lender shall, in a reasonable manner, assign to the Guarantor, as applicable, the amount of such Obligation owed to such Lender and so paid, such assignment to be pro tanto to the extent to which the Obligation in question was discharged by the Guarantor or make such disposition thereof as the Guarantor shall direct (all without recourse to any Lender and without any representation or warranty by any Lender). Upon payment by the Guarantor of any sums as provided above, all rights of the Guarantor against the Borrower arising as a result thereof by way of right of subrogation or otherwise shall in all respects be subordinated and junior in right of payment to the prior indefeasible payment in full of all the Obligations owed by the Borrower to the Lenders.
SECTION 9.02.
    
Release of Guarantee.
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that at any time (a) the Guarantor has no Capital Markets Debt outstanding, and (b) no other Capital Markets Debt of the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary is guaranteed or is required to be guaranteed by the Guarantor, the guarantee of the
51
Guarantor under this Article IX shall be automatically released (it being understood that such release will not require any Lender consent and may occur concurrently with any repayment of Capital Markets Debt or release of a guarantee of other Capital Markets Debt that results in the conditions set forth in the preceding clauses (a) and (b) being satisfied). The Guarantor may also be released from the guarantee set forth in Section 9.01 in the manner described in Section 10.14. Any release of the Guarantor pursuant to this Section 9.02 or Section 10.14 shall be irrevocable. The Administrative Agent shall promptly confirm in writing any release of the Guarantor pursuant to this Section or Section 10.14 upon the request of the Borrower.
ARTICLE X
Miscellaneous
SECTION 10.01.
    
Notices.
(a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by Telecopy, as follows:
(i)
    
if to the Borrower, to it at Northrop Grumman Corporation, 2980 Fairview Park Drive, Falls Church, VA 22042, Attention of Assistant Treasurer (Telecopy No. (703) 846-9605);
(ii)
    
if to the Administrative Agent to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Loan and Agency Services Group, 500 Stanton Christiana Road, Floor 3, Ops 2, Newark, DE 19713, Attention of Loan Services (Telecopy No. (302) 634-4250), with a copy to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 383 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10179, Attention of Aized Rabbani (Telecopy No. (212) 270-5100); and
(iii)
    
if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or Telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
(b)
    
Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent;
provided
that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it;
provided
that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
(c)
    
Any party hereto may change its address or Telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
(d)
    
Each Lender is responsible for providing prompt notice to the
52
Administrative Agent of any changes to the information set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
SECTION 10.02.
    
Waivers; Amendments.
(a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by any Loan Party therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
(b)
    
Except as set forth in paragraph (c) below, neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the Required Lenders or by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders or, with respect to any waiver, amendment or modification of Article IX hereof, by the Loan Parties and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders;
provided
that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.18(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of Required Lenders or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender or (vi) release the Guarantor from its obligations under Article IX (other than as provided for in Section 9.02 or Section 10.14), without the written consent of each Lender;
provided further
that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent.
(c)
    
In connection with any proposed amendment, modification, waiver or termination (a 
Proposed Change
) requiring the consent of all the Lenders, if the consent of Lenders representing the Required Lenders to such Proposed Change is obtained, but the consent of any other Lender is not obtained (any such Lender whose consent is not obtained as described in this Section 10.02(c) being referred to as a 
Non-Consenting Lender
), then, so long as the
53
Lender that is acting as the Administrative Agent is not a Non-Consenting Lender, at the Borrowers request, any assignee identified by the Borrower (with the consent of such assignee) that is acceptable to the Administrative Agent (and that is not a Non-Consenting Lender) shall have the right, with the Administrative Agents consent, to purchase from such Non-Consenting Lender, and such Non-Consenting Lender agrees that it shall, upon the Borrowers request, sell and assign to such assignee, at no expense to such Non-Consenting Lender (including with respect to any processing and recordation fees that may be applicable pursuant to Section 10.04(b)(ii)), all the Commitments and Revolving Credit Exposure of such Non-Consenting Lender for an amount equal to the principal balance of all Revolving Loans held by such Non-Consenting Lender and all accrued interest, accrued fees and other amounts with respect thereto through the date of sale (including amounts under Sections 2.15, 2.16 and 2.17), such purchase and sale to be consummated pursuant to an executed Assignment and Assumption in accordance with Section 10.04(b) (which Assignment and Assumption need not be signed by such Non-Consenting Lender).
SECTION 10.03.
    
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
(a) The Borrower shall reimburse (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent, in connection with (A) the primary syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein through the Effective Date and (B) the preparation and administration of this Agreement and any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof, in each case whether or not the Transactions are consummated and (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights under or in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
(b)
    
The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, and each Related Party (including each Arranger) of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an 
Indemnitee
) against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (other than Excluded Taxes), including the reasonable and documented fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the arrangement and the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the execution and delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions, (ii) any Loan or the use of the proceeds therefrom, or (iii) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto and regardless of whether such matter is initiated by a third party or by the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof;
provided
that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses shall have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such
54
Indemnitee or its Affiliates, officers, directors, employees, advisors or agents.
(c)
    
To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lenders Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount;
provided
that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, shall have been incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such.
(d)
    
To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with or as a result of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof.
(e)
    
All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor, together with reasonable detail and supporting documentation.
SECTION 10.04.
    
Successors and Assigns.
(a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby,
provided
that, (i) except in accordance with Section 6.02, the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section (and any attempted assignment or transfer not in compliance with the terms of this Section shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants (but only to the extent expressly provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(b)
    
(i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) other than to a Defaulting Lender with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) of:
(A)
    
the Borrower;
provided
that no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, or, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee;
provided
further
, that the Borrower, in determining whether to give such consent, may reasonably consider, without limitation, the financial capability, the financial rating and location of a proposed assignee and any prior business relationships between the Borrower and a proposed assignee, provided that such determination shall be made by the Borrower in
55
good faith and after consideration of all relevant factors; and
(B)
    
the Administrative Agent;
provided
that no consent of the Administrative Agent shall be required for an assignment of a Commitment to an assignee that is a Lender with a Commitment immediately prior to giving effect to such assignment.
(ii)
    
Each Assignment and Assumption shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
(A)
    
except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lenders Commitment or Competitive Loans, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $10,000,000 unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent;
provided
that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
(B)
    
each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement;
provided
that this clause shall not apply to rights in respect of outstanding Competitive Loans;
(C)
    
the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500;
(D)
    
the assignee, if it is not already a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire in which the assignee designates one or more credit contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain MNPI) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the assignees compliance procedures and applicable law, including Federal, State and foreign securities laws and such assignee shall maintain the confidentiality of any Information it receives in accordance with Section 10.12; and
(E)
    
the assignee shall have executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent and to the Borrower a Confidentiality Agreement.
(iii)
    
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 10.03). Any assignment or transfer
56
by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 10.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
(iv)
    
The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption and Confidentiality Agreement delivered to it and records of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the 
Register
). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
(v)
    
Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignees completed Administrative Questionnaire and (unless the assignee is already a Lender) a Confidentiality Agreement, the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
(c)
    
(i) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities other than a Defaulting Lender (a 
Participant
) in all or a portion of such Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it) in compliance with this Section 10.04;
provided
that (A) such Lenders obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (C) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement;
provided
that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 10.02(b) that affects such Participant, and (D) such Lender shall not provide any information to the Participant concerning the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, the disclosure of which would be prohibited by Section 10.12, unless the Participant has executed a Confidentiality Agreement and delivered a copy thereof to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and the Borrower has expressly consented to the delivery of confidential information to such Participant. Subject to paragraph (c) (ii) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Lender shall be entitled to make a claim against the Borrower on behalf of any Participant to whom it has sold participations for the
57
benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16 and 2.17 (subject to the requirements and limitations therein, including the requirements under Section 2.17(f) (it being understood that the documentation required under Section 2.17(f) shall be delivered to the participating Lender)). Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as a non-fiduciary agent of the Borrower, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participants interest in the Loans or other obligations under this Agreement (the 
Participant Register
); provided that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register to any Person (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participants interest in any Commitments, Loans or its other obligations under any Loan Document) except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such Commitment, Loan or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary.
(ii)
    
A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.15 or 2.17 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrowers prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.17 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.17(f) as though it were a Lender.
(d)
    
Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest;
provided
that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
SECTION 10.05.
    
Survival.
All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Loan Parties herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 10.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the Transactions, the repayment of the Loans and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
58
SECTION 10.06.
    
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof, including the commitments of the Lenders and, if applicable, their Affiliates under any commitment letter entered into in connection with the credit facilities established hereunder and any commitment advices submitted in connection therewith. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by Telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
SECTION 10.07.
    
Severability.
Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
SECTION 10.08.
    
No Reliance on Margin Stock
. Each of the Lenders represents to the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders that it in good faith is not relying upon any Margin Stock as collateral in the extension or maintenance of the credit provided for in this Agreement.
SECTION 10.09.
    
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process.
(a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York.
(b)
    
Each of the parties to this Agreement hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in the Borough of Manhattan in the City of New York and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding shall be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right of any party to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against the Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
59
(c)
    
Each of the parties to this Agreement hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(d)
    
Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 10.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
SECTION 10.10.
    
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
SECTION 10.11.
    
Headings.
Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
SECTION 10.12.
    
Confidentiality.
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates directors, members, partners, trustees, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (collectively, the 
Representatives
) on a need to know basis (it being understood that any Representative to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential in accordance with the terms of this Section), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority (including (i) any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and (ii) in connection with a pledge or assignment permitted under Section 10.04(d)), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to a Confidentiality Agreement executed in favor of the Borrower, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors)
60
designated by the Loan Parties to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations,
provided
such actual or prospective assignee, Participant or counterparty first executes and delivers to the Borrower a Confidentiality Agreement, (g) with the written consent of the Borrower acting through a Financial Officer or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower,
provided
that the Administrative Agent or the applicable Lender shall, in connection with any disclosure pursuant to clause (b) or (c) above (other than disclosure made in the course of a bank examination), give to the Borrower any notice that it is not prohibited from providing of the requirement of such disclosure. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees that it shall be responsible for any breach of this Section that results from the actions or omissions of its Representatives. For the purposes of this Section. 
Information
 means all information received from the Borrower relating to the Borrower, its Subsidiaries or their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower.
SECTION 10.13.
    
Interest Rate Limitation.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable law (collectively the 
Charges
), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the 
Maximum Rate
) which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
SECTION 10.14.
    
Release of Guarantee.
In the event of a disposition of all the capital stock in the Guarantor to a Person other than the Borrower or a Subsidiary in a transaction not prohibited by any covenant contained in this Agreement, the Administrative Agent is hereby directed and authorized to take such action and to execute such documents as the Borrower may reasonably request, at the Borrowers sole expense, to evidence or effect the release of the guarantee by the Guarantor under this Agreement;
provided
, that a disposition of the capital stock of the Guarantor will not require or result in a release of such guarantee under this Section if such disposition constitutes or occurs as part of a transfer of the assets of the Borrower substantially as an entirety.
SECTION 10.15.
    
Conversion of Currencies.
(a) If, for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum owing hereunder in one currency into another currency, each party hereto agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal
61
banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction the first currency could be purchased with such other currency on the Business Day immediately preceding the day on which final judgment is given.
(b)
    
The obligations of the Borrower in respect of any sum due to any party hereto or any holder of the obligations owing hereunder (the 
Applicable Creditor
) shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the 
Judgment Currency
) other than the currency in which such sum is stated to be due hereunder (the 
Agreement Currency
), be discharged only to the extent that, on the Business Day following receipt by the Applicable Creditor of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Applicable Creditor may in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Applicable Creditor in the Agreement Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Applicable Creditor against such loss. The obligations of the Borrower contained in this Section 10.15 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of all other amounts owing hereunder.
SECTION 10.16.
    
USA PATRIOT Act Notice.
Each Lender and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the USA PATRIOT Act.
SECTION 10.17.
    
No Fiduciary Relationship.
Each of the Loan Parties hereby acknowledges that none of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders or their Affiliates has any fiduciary relationship with or duty to any Loan Party arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, and the relationship between the Administrative Agent and the Lenders or any of their Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Loan Parties, on the other hand, in connection herewith is solely that of debtor and creditor.
SECTION 10.18.
    
Non-Public Information.
Each Lender acknowledges that all information, including requests for waivers and amendments, furnished by the Company or the Administrative Agent pursuant to or in connection with, or in the course of administering, this Agreement will be syndicate-level information, which may contain MNPI. Each Lender represents to the Company and the Administrative Agent that (i) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of MNPI and that it will handle MNPI in accordance with such procedures and applicable law, including Federal, state and foreign securities laws, (ii) it has identified in its Administrative Questionnaire a credit contact who may receive information that may contain MNPI in accordance with its compliance procedures and applicable law, including Federal, state and foreign securities laws and (iii) it will maintain the confidentiality of any MNPI it receives in accordance with Section 10.12.
SECTION 10.19.
    
Markit Data
. (a) JPMCB, in any capacity, whether in an individual capacity or as Administrative Agent or as a Lender or otherwise, shall receive data
62
from Markit with respect to credit default swap spreads and agrees in such capacity to provide to Persons identified by each Lender and, if JPMCB is no longer the Administrative Agent, to the Administrative Agent (
Designated Users
), such data, including any accompanying written notice or supporting information from Markit (together, the 
Markit Data
), via email, log-in or other means of communication at the discretion of JPMCB. JPMCB shall have all of the rights, benefits and protections of the Administrative Agent provided for in Article VIII when acting in such capacity with respect to the provision of any Markit Data.
(b)
    
For the avoidance of doubt, any Designated User shall only access and use the Markit Data for the purposes specified in this Agreement on behalf of the respective Lender or, if applicable, the Administrative Agent and shall be required by such Lender, and if applicable, the Administrative Agent, to comply with the terms of this Section 10.19. Each Lender and, if applicable, the Administrative Agent, hereby agrees, without limiting Markits or JPMCBs other rights and remedies, that it is responsible for and liable for any breach of any of the provisions of this Section 10.19 by its respective Designated Users.
(c)
    
Each Lender acknowledges that all copyright, database rights, trade marks, patents, rights of privacy or publicity and other proprietary or intellectual property rights (including all models, software, data and any materials) comprised in all or any of the Markit Data, or their provision, and all enhancements, modifications or additional services thereto, are and will be the exclusive property of Markit. Except as provided under this Agreement, each Lender agrees that it will not use the same (including copying, reverse engineering or, except as otherwise required by law or regulation, disclosing it to any Person, for any purpose whatsoever) and will not remove or deface any trademarks associated with the Markit Data. Each Lender acknowledges that the Markit Data was developed, compiled, prepared, revised, selected and arranged by Markit and others (including certain information sources (each a 
Data Provider
)) through the application of methods and standards of judgment developed and applied through the expenditure of substantial time, effort and money, and constitute valuable intellectual property and trade secrets of Markit. Each Lender shall make reasonable efforts to comply, at Markits expense, with all reasonable written requests made by JPMCB (upon Markits written requests to JPMCB) to protect any contractual, statutory and common law rights in the Markit Data.
(d)
    
Each Lender acknowledges that none of Markit, JPMCB, their respective affiliates or any Data Provider makes any warranty, express or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of the Markit Data or as to the results to be attained by any Lender or others from the use of the Markit Data. Each Lender hereby acknowledges that there are no express or implied warranties of title, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose or use, and that it has not relied upon any warranty, guaranty or representation made by Markit, JPMCB, their respective affiliates or any Data Provider.
(e)
    
None of Markit and its affiliates (except in the event of fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct on part of Markit or its affiliates), any Data Provider or JPMCB and its affiliates shall in any way be liable to any Lender or any client of any Lender for any inaccuracies, errors or omissions, regardless of cause, in the Markit Data provided hereunder or for any damages (whether direct or indirect) resulting therefrom. Without limiting the foregoing,
63
Markit and JPMCB shall have no liability whatsoever to any Lender or client of a Lender, whether in contract (including under an indemnity), in tort (including negligence), under a warranty, under statute or otherwise, in respect of any loss or damage suffered by such Lender or client as a result of or in connection with any opinions, recommendations, forecasts, judgments, or any other conclusions, or any course of action determined, by such Lender or any client of such Lender, based on the Markit Data. To the extent permitted by law, none of Markit, JPMCB or their respective affiliates shall be liable for any loss of profits or revenue or any indirect or consequential losses or damages whatsoever incurred, whether or not it has been advised in advance of the possibility of any such loss.
(f)
    
Each Lender acknowledges that it or its employees may, in the course of performing such Lenders responsibilities under this Agreement, be exposed to or acquire information which is proprietary or confidential to Markit or to third parties to whom Markit owes a duty of confidentiality. Markits and such third parties confidential information means the Markit Data and any related materials provided by Markit through JPMCB to each Lender and the Administrative Agent under this Agreement. Each Lender agrees to hold Markits and such third parties confidential information in confidence to the same extent and in the same manner as such Lender is required to hold the Borrowers information confidential pursuant to Section 10.12 hereof and agrees that it will follow procedures which are intended to put any transferee of such confidential information on notice that such confidential information may not be used for any other purposes except as contemplated herein. It is understood and agreed that in the event of a breach of confidentiality, damages may not be an adequate remedy and that JPMCB shall be entitled to injunctive relief to restrain any such breach, threatened or actual. The Lenders and the Administrative Agent are entitled to disclose and use the Markit Data in the normal course of their business as it relates to the Agreement, including but not limited to disclosing such information to ratings agencies, league table providers and prospective assignees and participants;
provided
that all communication involving Information shall be subject to the confidentiality provisions of Section 10.12.
(g)
    
The Borrower acknowledges that each of JPMCB and the other Lenders from time to time may conduct business with and may be a shareholder of Markit and that each of JPMCB or the other Lenders may have from the time to time the right to appoint one or more directors to the board of directors of Markit.
[The remainder of this page has been left blank intentionally]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    CITIBANK, N.A.
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    BANK OF AMERICA
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    BNP PARIBAS
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    CREDIT SUISSE AG, CAYMAN ISLANDS BRANCH
 
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    DEUTSCHE BANK AG NEW YORK BRANCH
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    GOLDMAN SACHS BANK USA
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK LIMITED
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    U.S. BANK N.A.
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK GROUP LIMITED
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    BARCLAYS BANK PLC
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    BAYERISCHE LANDESBANK, NEW YORK BRANCH
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    INTESSA SANPAOLO S.P.A., NEW YORK BRANCH
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    LLOYDS TSB BANK PLC
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    MORGAN STANLEY BANK, N.A.
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    STATE STEET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    DANSKE BANK A/S
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    GULF INTERNATIONAL BANK BSC
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    UNICREDIT BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH
LENDER SIGNATURE PAGE
TO THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN
CORPORATION 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Name of Institution:    ABU DHABI INTERNATIONAL BANK INC.


