FILE:EA/EA-8K-20030723161552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
The information in this Form 8-K is being furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission solely under Item 12 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition".
 
 
On July 23, 2003, the registrant issued a press release announcing its earnings results for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. A copy of the registrant's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 July 23, 2003  Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced financial results for the fiscal first quarter ended June 30, 2003.
REDWOOD CITY, CA
 
Net revenue for the first quarter was $353 million, up six percent as compared with $332 million for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2002. Sales were driven by and . Both and went platinum in the quarter  having each sold more than one million units.
NBA STREET Vol. 2, Def Jam VENDETTA
The Sims Superstar Expansion Pack
NBA STREET Vol. 2
The Sims Superstar Expansion Pack
 
Net income for the quarter was $18 million, a 148 percent increase over the same period a year ago. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter increased 141 percent to $0.12 as compared with $0.05 for the prior year. The growth in earnings was driven by increased revenue and a higher gross margin.
 
Trailing twelve month operating cash flow was $673 million, or $4.55 per share.
 
Non-GAAP net income in the first quarter, excluding certain items, was up 110 percent to $19 million. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were up 104 percent to $0.13. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
 
"EA further enhanced its line-up of franchise hits this quarter," said Larry Probst, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "NBA STREET Vol. 2 is a runaway hit and we also launched Def Jam VENDETTA, a new property. Year in and year out it is our objective to add significant new intellectual properties to our existing franchise base. We are off to a great start in our new fiscal year."
 
"The strength of our first quarter performance positions us well for the remainder of the year," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "Our Fall development is on schedule and looks great. We expect fiscal 2004 to be another record year on both the top and bottom lines."
 
(comparisons are to the quarter ending June 30, 2002)
Highlights for the Quarter
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The following forward-looking statements reflect expectations as of July 23, 2003. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as changes in the overall global economy, actual consumer spending, consumer acceptance of our products, development delays and other risk factors referenced below in this release.
 
Fiscal Second Quarter Expectations  Ending September 30, 2003
 
 
 
Fiscal Year Expectations  Ending March 31, 2004
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Electronic Arts uses non-GAAP measures of operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures exclude the following items, including the related tax effect, from the Company's statement of operations:
 
 
 
 
 
The Company believes that excluding these items is useful for illustrating and explaining operating results and comparisons to prior periods. Management considers these non-GAAP measures in its decision-making to facilitate more relevant operating comparisons.
 
A reconciliation of GAAP operating income to non-GAAP operating income; GAAP net income to non-GAAP net income; and GAAP diluted earnings per share to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are included as part of the supplemental disclosures to this release.
 
Webcast
 
Electronic Arts will host a webcast at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) on July 23, 2003 at to review the results for the Company's quarter ending June 30, 2003 and to discuss the Company's near-term outlook. A replay of the webcast will be posted for two weeks. A copy of this release and supplemental information will be available at .
http://investor.ea.com
http://investor.ea.com
 
Some statements set forth in this release, including those under the heading "Business Outlook," contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risks and actual events or actual future results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements due to such risks and uncertainties. Some of the factors which could cause our results to differ materially include the following: our ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; the seasonality and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; timely development and release of our products; our ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties; consumer spending trends; retention of key personnel; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of our products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of our products; and other factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended March 31, 2003. If any of these risks or uncertainties materializes, our results could differ materially from our expectations described in these forward-looking statements. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the "Business Outlook" heading.
 
Note to Editors: The Sims and Medal of Honor Frontline are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Medal of Honor is a trademark or registered trademark of Electronic Arts in the U.S. and/or other countries for computer and videogame products. Club Pogo is a trademark of Pogo Corporation. Def Jam and Def Jam VENDETTA are used under license from DJR Holdings, LLC and The Island Def Jam Music Group, a division of UMG Recordings, Inc. NBA and FIFA are trademarks of their respective owners and used with permission. PlayStation is a registered trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Xbox is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries and used under license. Nintendo GameCube is a trademark of Nintendo. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, other-than-temporary impairment of investments and charges for acquired in-process technology. In addition, income taxes are calculated on a consolidated effective tax rate of 31%.
 
 
 
(a)
    Derived from audited financial statements.
 
 
 
 
The following tables show the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, other-than-temporary impairment of investments, charges for acquired in-process technology and their related income tax effect.
 
 
 
 
 
(a)
    Please see attached Unaudited Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


