FILE:EA/EA-8K-20031022162320.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
On October 22, 2003, the registrant issued a press release announcing its earnings results for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 and announcing its intention to effect a two-for-one stock split of its Class A common stock. A copy of the registrant's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 October 22, 2003  Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced financial results for the fiscal second quarter ended September 30, 2003.
REDWOOD CITY, CA
 
Net revenue for the second quarter was $530 million, up 17 percent as compared with $453 million for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2002. Sales were driven by , and. and had record sales in the quarter  having sold more than 3.6 million and 1.3 million units, respectively.
Madden NFL 2004, NCAA Football 2004
Tiger Woods PGA TOUR 2004, NHL 2004
NASCAR Thunder 2004
Madden NFL 2004
NCAA Football 2004
 
Net income for the quarter was $77 million, a 52 percent increase over the same period a year ago. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter increased 47 percent to $0.50 as compared with $0.34 for the prior year. The growth in earnings was driven by increased revenue and a higher gross margin.
 
Trailing twelve month operating cash flow was $657 million, or $4.45 a share, up 45 percent from $454 million, or $3.14 a share, for the same period a year ago.
 
Non-GAAP net income in the second quarter, excluding certain items, was up 49 percent to $77 million. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were up 43 percent to $0.50. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
 
"EA is once again decisively winning the football category," said Larry Probst, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. " is the clear number one and a solid number two. Looking ahead, our holiday line-up is the strongest in EA history with titles like; ; ; ; ; and .
Madden NFL 2004
NCAA Football 2004
The Lord of the Rings, The Return of the King
Medal of Honor Rising Sun
Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup
Need for Speed Underground
SSX 3
FIFA Soccer 2004
NBA Live 2004
 
"This was a great quarter and we continue to be on track for another record year," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "We continue to deliver growth, earnings and significant operating cash flow."
 
(comparisons are to the quarter ended September 30, 2002)
Highlights for the Quarter
 
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The following forward-looking statements reflect expectations as of October 22, 2003. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as changes in the overall global economy, actual consumer spending, consumer acceptance of our products, development delays and other risk factors referenced below in this release.
 
Fiscal Third Quarter Expectations  Ending December 31, 2003
 
 
Fiscal Year Expectations  Ending March 31, 2004
 
 
Stock Split
 
The Company's Board of Directors has approved a two-for-one stock split of its Class A common stock. This is the fourth stock split in the Company's history. The split will be accomplished through a share-for-share stock dividend to Class A common stockholders of record as of November 3, 2003. Each Class A common stockholder will receive one additional share of Class A common stock for every share of Class A common stock held on the record date. Distribution of additional shares will be made on or about November 17, 2003. Trading at a post-split price is expected to begin on November 18, 2003.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Electronic Arts uses non-GAAP measures of operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures exclude the following items, including the related tax effect, from the Company's statement of operations:
 
 
The Company believes that excluding these items is useful for illustrating and explaining operating results and comparisons to prior periods. Management considers these non-GAAP measures in its decision-making to facilitate more relevant operating comparisons.
 
A reconciliation of GAAP operating income to non-GAAP operating income; GAAP net income to non-GAAP net income; and GAAP diluted earnings per share to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are included as part of the supplemental disclosures to this release.
 
Webcast
 
Electronic Arts will host a webcast at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) on October 22, 2003 at to review the results for the Company's quarter ending September 30, 2003 and to discuss the Company's near-term outlook. A replay of the webcast will be posted for two weeks. A copy of this release and supplemental information will be available at .
http://investor.ea.com
http://investor.ea.com
 
Some statements set forth in this release, including those under the heading "Business Outlook," contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risks and actual events or actual future results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements due to such risks and uncertainties. Some of the factors which could cause our results to differ materially include the following: our ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; the seasonality and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; timely development and release of our products; our ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties; consumer spending trends; retention of key personnel; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of our products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of our products; and other factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended March 31, 2003. If any of these risks or uncertainties materializes, our results could differ materially from our expectations described in these forward-looking statements. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the "Business Outlook" heading.
 
Note to Editors: Need for Speed and Medal of Honor are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. The Lord of the Rings and The Return of the King are trademarks of The Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Tolkien Enterprises under license to New Line Productions, Inc. HARRY POTTER and all related characters and elements are trademarks of and  Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. Harry Potter Publishing Rights  JKR. NFL, NHL, Tiger Woods, PGA TOUR, NBA, NCAA, NASCAR Thunder and FIFA are trademarks of their respective owners and used with permission. PlayStation is a registered trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Xbox is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries and used under license. Nintendo GameCube is a trademark of Nintendo. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates and charges for acquired in-process technology. In addition, income taxes are calculated on a consolidated effective tax rate of 31%.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables show the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates, charges for acquired in-process technology and their related income tax effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


