FILE:EA/EA-8K-20030506162720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The information in this Form 8-K is being furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission solely under Item 12 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition".
 
Item 12.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 6, 2003, the registrant issued a press release announcing its earnings results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2003. A copy of the registrant's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 May 6, 2003  Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced financial results for the fiscal year and quarter ended March 31, 2003.
REDWOOD CITY, CA
 
Full Year Results
 
compared with $1.725 billion for the prior year. EA had twenty-two platinum titles (over one million units sold) in fiscal 2003. Two franchises 
Consolidated net revenues for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2003 were $2.482 billion, up 44 percent
The Sims
and
Harry Potter
 each sold approximately ten million units and four other franchises sold more than five million units:
Medal of Honor
, James Bond
, FIFA Soccer
and
Madden NFL
Football.
 
over the prior year. Diluted earnings per share increased 206 percent to $2.17 compared to $0.71. The growth in earnings was driven by higher sales volume, increased gross margin and lower operating costs as a percentage of net revenues. The company incurred asset impairment and restructuring charges of $81 million in the year. These charges lowered fiscal year net income by $56 million (tax-adjusted) and diluted earnings per share by $0.38 (tax-adjusted).
Consolidated net income for the year was $317 million, a 212 percent increase
 
Non-GAAP net income, excluding certain items, was up 190 percent to $385 million. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were up 183 percent to $2.63. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
 
in the prior fiscal year.
Operating cash flow was $714 million as compared to $288 million
 
said Larry Probst, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "The company achieved all of its key objectives, and we are the leader on next generation consoles and on the PC. We enter our next fiscal year in great shape and with the strongest product line-up in our history."
"This was an outstanding year for Electronic Arts,"
 
"Our studios produced great entertainment, our publishing organizations delivered record sales results and together as a company, we generated record operating cash flow," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "For the year, operating cash flow was $714 million."
 
(comparisons are to the fiscal year ending March 31, 2002)
Highlights for the Year
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Results
 
compared with $470 million in the prior year. The slight decline in sales was driven by the timing of product releases. In the quarter, 12 products were released as compared to 20 in the prior year. For the quarter, average unit sales volume on new releases was up over 50 percent. The strength of the company's unit sales performance was driven by
Consolidated net revenues for the fourth quarter were $463 million, down one percent
The Sims;
The Lord of the Rings, The Two Towers;
SimCity
4; Command & Conquer
Generals; FIFA 2003
and
MVP Baseball
2003.
 
in the prior year. Diluted earnings per share were $0.06 in the quarter compared with $0.33 in the prior year. Asset impairment and restructuring charges of $72 million were incurred. These charges lowered fourth quarter net income by $50 million (tax-adjusted) and diluted earnings per share by $0.34 (tax-adjusted).
Consolidated net income for the quarter was $9 million, as compared to $47 million
 
Non-GAAP net income, excluding certain items, was up seven percent to $59 million. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were up three percent to $0.40. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
 
Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges
 
. Pre-tax asset impairment and restructuring charges of $81 million were incurred during the fiscal year. Asset impairment charges were $66 million and related principally to EA.com. Restructuring charges totaled $15 million and were incurred primarily as a result of lease terminations associated with studio consolidations, the cost to retire outstanding Class B options and employee severance costs.
Full year charges
 
. Pre-tax asset impairment and restructuring charges of $72 million were incurred during the quarter. Asset impairment charges were $65 million and related principally to EA.com. Restructuring charges totaled $7 million and were associated with lease terminations, employee severance costs and the cost to retire outstanding Class B options.
Fourth quarter charges
 
The majority of outstanding Class B options and shares were acquired or exchanged for Class A equity during the quarter, and EA.com was consolidated into the company's core operations. As a result, the company intends to eliminate dual class reporting as of April 1, 2003, the start of EA's new fiscal year.
 
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The following forward-looking statements reflect expectations as of May 6, 2003. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as changes in the overall global economy, actual consumer spending, consumer acceptance of our products, development delays and other risk factors detailed in this release.
 
Fiscal First Quarter Expectations  Ending June 30, 2003
 
 
Fiscal Year Expectations  Ending March 31, 2004
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Electronic Arts uses non-GAAP measures of operating income (loss), net income (loss) and diluted earnings (loss) per share. These non-GAAP measures exclude the following items from the company's statement of operations:
 
 
The company believes excluding these items is useful for illustrating and explaining operating results and comparisons to prior periods. Management uses these non-GAAP measures in its decision-making to facilitate more relevant operating comparisons.
 
In addition, non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share for EA Core and EA.com reflect these segments on a stand-alone basis and allocate income taxes on a proportional basis to the respective income (loss) for each segment. Because the operations of EA.com have been consolidated into EA's Core operations, the company will no longer report separate EA Core and EA.com results for future periods.
 
A reconciliation of GAAP operating income (loss) to non-GAAP operating income (loss); GAAP net income (loss) to non-GAAP net income (loss); and GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share to non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share are included as part of the supplemental disclosures.
 
 
Webcast
 
Electronic Arts will host a webcast at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) on May 6, 2003 at to review the results for the company's fiscal year and fourth quarter ending March 31, 2003 and to discuss the company's near term outlook. A replay of the webcast will be posted for two weeks. A copy of this release and supplemental information will be available at .
http://investor.ea.com
http://investor.ea.com
 
Some statements set forth in this release including those under the heading "Business Outlook" contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risks and actual events or actual future results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements due to such risks and uncertainties. Some of the factors which could cause our results to differ materially include the following: timely development and release of our products; consumer spending trends; retention of key personnel; risks associated with major platform transitions; our limited experience with online games; subscriber acceptance of our online products; potential regulation of our products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of our products; and other factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended March 31, 2002 and Form 10Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2002. If any of these risks or uncertainties materializes, our results could differ materially from our expectations described in these forward-looking statements. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the "Business Outlook" heading.
 
Note to Editors: The Sims, The Sims Online, SimCity, Medal of Honor, Medal of Honor Frontline, Medal of Honor Allied Assault, Need for Speed, Command & Conquer, MVP Baseball, Ultima, Ultima Online and Age of Shadows are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Battlefield 1942 is a trademark of Digital Illusions CE AB. The Lord of the Rings and the characters, names, and places therein, TM The Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Tolkien Enterprises under license to New Line Productions, Inc. James Bond is a trademark of Danjaq, LLC. NIGHTFIRE and AGENT UNDER FIRE are trademarks of Danjaq, LLC and United Artists Corp. HARRY POTTER, characters, names and related indicia are trademarks of and
Warner Bros. NFL, FIFA, NBA, NCAA, NHL, Tiger Woods, PGA TOUR, NASCAR and NASCAR Thunder are trademarks of their respective owners and used with permission. PlayStation is a registered trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Xbox is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. Nintendo GameCube and Game Boy Advance are trademarks of Nintendo. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges and other than temporary impairment of investments. In addition, income taxes are allocated to EA Core and EA.com at the consolidated effective tax rate (31%) on a pro rata basis.
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges and other than temporary impairment of investments. In addition, income taxes are allocated to EA Core and EA.com at the consolidated effective tax rate (31%) on a pro rata basis.
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
The following tables show the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges and other than temporary impairment of investments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Co-pub, International only and Others (not in SKU count)
 
 
Platinum Titles in Fiscal 2003 (sold at least 1 million units in fiscal year)
 
 
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


