FILE:EA/EA-8K-20040407185456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On April 7, 2004, Electronic Arts Inc. issued a press release announcing the resignation of John Riccitiello, President and Chief Operating Officer. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
:
Contact
Jeff Brown
Electronic Arts
jbrown@ea.com
650-628-7922
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
REDWOOD CITY, CAApril 7, 2004Electronic Arts today announced that President and Chief Operating Officer John Riccitiello, responsible for global publishing, online and other corporate departments, has resigned his position effective immediately but will remain at EA for a transition period.
 
"I want to thank John for the tremendous contribution he's made in the past six years," said CEO Larry Probst. "His vision and leadership have been extremely valuable and he has built an outstanding team. I wish John the very best."
 
"My time at EA was the best work experience in my life," said Mr. Riccitiello. "Personally, it is time to do something different and I intend to start a private equity business. I'm leaving EA when the company is enriched with the best people, the best properties and a very bright future."
 
Mr. Probst will continue as CEO and assume interim responsibility for Mr. Riccitiello's duties while EA evaluates candidates to join the company's senior leadership team.
 
ABOUT ELECTRONIC ARTS
 
Electronic Arts (NASDAQ:ERTS), headquartered in Redwood City, California, is the world's leading interactive entertainment software company. Founded in 1982, Electronic Arts posted revenues of $2.5 billion for fiscal 2003. The company develops, publishes, and distributes interactive software worldwide for video game systems, personal computers and the Internet. Electronic Arts markets its products under three brand names: EA SPORTS, EA GAMES, and EA SPORTS BIG. EA's homepage and online game site is . More information about EA's products and full text of press releases can be found on the Internet at .
www.ea.com
http://info.ea.com
 
 
Electronic Arts, EA GAMES, EA SPORTS, and EA SPORTS BIG are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


