FILE:EA/EA-8K-20040722161141.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 22, 2004, Electronic Arts Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 July 22, 2004  Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced financial results for the fiscal first quarter ended June 30, 2004.
REDWOOD CITY, CA
 
Net revenue for the first quarter was $432 million, up 22 percent as compared with $353 million for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2003. Sales were driven by , and , each reaching platinum status (over one million units sold) in the quarter. and had continued strong sales. Life-to-date sales of have now exceeded 7 million units.
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
EA SPORTS Fight Night
2004
UEFA
Euro 2004
Need for Speed Underground
MVP Baseball 2004
Need for Speed Underground
 
Net income for the quarter was $24 million, a 32 percent increase compared to the same period a year ago. Diluted earnings per share were $0.08 as compared with $0.06 for the prior year.
 
Non-GAAP net income for the quarter, excluding certain items, was $25 million. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.08. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
 
Trailing twelve month operating cash flow was $638 million as compared to $673 million for the same period a year ago. The decline was primarily a result of the timing of sales during the quarter.
 
"We are off to a great start in our new fiscal year," said Larry Probst, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We received five Game Critics Awards for Best of E3  a record for any company and three of our first quarter releases went platinum. NCAA Football's week one sales are tracking over 50 percent ahead of last year, and Madden NFL's pre-orders are at record levels. We continue to extend our lead by creating great entertainment while building for the next generation of technology."
 
"EA delivered on both the top and bottom lines while making significant investments in next generation technology," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "Even with a 43 percent increase in research and development expense, we were able to increase our net income by over 30 percent in the quarter."
 
(comparisons are to the quarter ended June 30, 2003)
Highlights for the Quarter
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The following forward-looking statements reflect expectations as of July 22, 2004. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as changes in foreign exchange rates, development delays, the overall global economy, the popular appeal of our products, our ability to secure key licenses and other risk factors detailed in this release and in our annual and quarterly SEC filings.
 
Fiscal Second Quarter Expectations  Ending September 30, 2004
 
 
 
Fiscal Year Expectations  Ending March 31, 2005
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Electronic Arts uses non-GAAP measures of operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures exclude the following items, including the related tax effect, from the Company's statement of operations:
 
 
 
 
 
The Company believes that excluding these items is useful for illustrating and explaining operating results and comparisons to prior periods. Management considers these non-GAAP measures in its decision-making to facilitate more relevant operating comparisons.
 
A reconciliation of GAAP operating income to non-GAAP operating income; GAAP net income to non-GAAP net income; and GAAP diluted earnings per share to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are included as part of the supplemental disclosures to this release.
 
Conference Call
 
Electronic Arts will host a conference call on July 22, 2004 at 1:30 pm PT (4:30 pm ET) to review the results for the Company's first quarter ended June 30, 2004. Listeners may access the conference call live via webcast (). A webcast archive of the conference call will be available for one year at http://investor.ea.com.
http://investor.ea.com
 
Some statements set forth in this release, including those under the heading "Business Outlook," contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risks and actual events or actual future results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements due to such risks and uncertainties. Some of the factors which could cause our results to differ materially from our expectations include the following: our ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; the seasonality and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; timely development and release of our products; our ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties on favorable terms; consumer spending trends; our ability to attract and retain key personnel; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of our products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of our products; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; and other factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2004. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the "Business Outlook" heading.
 
Note to Editors: EA SPORTS, EA GAMES, Need for Speed, MVP Baseball, John Madden Football and The Sims are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Burnout is a registered trademark and TakeDown is trademark of Criterion Software Limited. The Lord of the Rings and the names of the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks of The Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Tolkien Enterprises under license to New Line Productions, Inc. Def Jam and Fight For NY and all associated logos and marks are used under license from DJR Holdings, LLC and Simcoh, LLC. The UEFA word, and the UEFA EURO 2004 Official Logo are protected by trademarks and copyright. All rights reserved. NFL is a registered trademark of the National Football League. NCAA is a registered trademark of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. HARRY POTTER and all related characters and elements are trademarks of and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. Harry Potter Publishing Rights JKR. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (in thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates and charges for acquired in-process technology. The tax impact of the remaining items is calculated on a consolidated effective tax rate of 29% and 31% for the three months ending June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables show the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates, charges for acquired in-process technology and their related income tax effect. The three months and year ended March 31, 2004 also exclude the impact of a one-time income tax adjustment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


