FILE:EA/EA-8K-20041019160939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 19, 2004, Electronic Arts Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 October 19, 2004  Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced financial results for the fiscal second quarter ended September 30, 2004.
REDWOOD CITY, CA
 
Net revenue was $716 million, up 35 percent as compared with $530 million for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2003. Sales were driven by and each reaching platinum status (over one million copies sold) in the quarter.
Madden NFL 2005, The Sims2, Burnout 3: Takedown
NCAA Football 2005
 
has sold over 4 million copies since launch.
Madden NFL 2005
 
and have each sold over one million copies in Europe alone.
The Sims 2
Burnout 3: Takedown
 
Net income for the second quarter was $97 million, a 27 percent increase year-over-year. Diluted earnings per share were $0.31 as compared to $0.25 a year ago.
 
Non-GAAP net income for the second quarter was $98 million, a 27 percent increase. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.31 as compared to $0.25 a year ago. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
 
Trailing twelve month operating cash flow was $664 million as compared to $657 million for the same period a year ago.
 
EA's Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase program of up to $750 million. EA may purchase the Company's common stock from time to time in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions over the next 12 months.
 
"We enter the holidays with strong momentum in North America, Europe and Asia," said Larry Probst, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "EA SPORTS is having its best year ever and The Sims 2 had the strongest PC launch in EA's history. In the December quarter, the breadth and quality of our global line-up is exceptional, with eleven new releases expected to achieve platinum status."
 
"We are fortunate to be in a strong financial position," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "We have the financial strength to invest for the long term, maintain strategic flexibility and at the same time return capital to our shareholders through our share repurchase program."
 
(comparisons are to the quarter ended September 30, 2003)
Current Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The following forward-looking statements reflect expectations as of October 19, 2004. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as changes in foreign exchange rates, the overall global economy, the popular appeal of our products, our effective tax rate, development delays, our ability to secure key licenses and other factors detailed in this release and in our annual and quarterly SEC filings.
 
Fiscal Third Quarter Expectations  Ending December 31, 2004
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year Expectations  Ending March 31, 2005
 
 
 
 
Our expected results include the projected impact of our share repurchase program.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Electronic Arts uses non-GAAP measures of operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures exclude the following items, including any related tax effect, from the Company's statement of operations:
 
 
 
 
 
The Company believes that excluding these items is useful for illustrating and explaining operating results and comparisons to prior periods. Management considers these non-GAAP measures in its decision-making to facilitate more relevant operating comparisons.
 
A reconciliation of GAAP operating income to non-GAAP operating income; GAAP net income to non-GAAP net income; and GAAP diluted earnings per share to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are included as part of the supplemental disclosures to this release.
 
Conference Call
 
Electronic Arts will host a conference call on October 19, 2004 at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) to review the results for the Company's second quarter ended September 30, 2004. Listeners may access the conference call live via webcast (). A webcast archive of the conference call will be available for one year at http://investor.ea.com.
http://investor.ea.com
 
Some statements set forth in this release, including those under the heading "Business Outlook," contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risks and actual events or actual future results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements due to such risks and uncertainties. Some of the factors which could cause our results to differ materially from our expectations include the following: our ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; the seasonality and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; timely development and release of our products; our ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties on favorable terms; consumer spending trends; our ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in effective tax rates; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of our products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of our products; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; and other factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2004 and in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the "Business Outlook" heading.
 
Note to Editors: The Sims and John Madden Football are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Burnout, TakeDown and RenderWare are trademarks of Criterion Software Limited. NFL, NCAA, Tiger Woods & PGA TOUR are trademarks of their respective owners and used with permission. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (in thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles and employee stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates and charges for acquired in-process technology. The tax impact of the remaining items is calculated on a consolidated effective tax rate of 29% and 31% for the three and six months ending September 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables show the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles and employee stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates, charges for acquired in-process technology and their related income tax effect. The three months and year ended March 31, 2004 also exclude the impact of a one-time income tax adjustment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


