FILE:EA/EA-8K-20040127161728.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 27, 2004, Electronic Arts Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
January 27, 2004Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced financial results for the fiscal third quarter ended December 31, 2003.
REDWOOD CITY, CA
 
Net revenue for the third quarter was $1.475 billion, up 20 percent as compared with $1.234 billion for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2002. Sales were driven by
Need for Speed Underground; The Lord of the Rings; The Return of the King; Medal of Honor Rising Sun; FIFA Soccer 2004, Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup; NBA Live 2004; The Sims Bustin' Out; Madden NFL 2004; and SSX 3.
 
Net income for the quarter was $392 million, a 57 percent increase over the same period a year ago. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter increased 48 percent to $1.26 as compared with $0.85 for the prior year. The growth in earnings was driven by increased net revenue and a higher gross margin.
 
Trailing twelve month operating cash flow was $538 million as compared with $579 million in the prior year. The decline was the result of the timing of sales during the quarter.
 
Non-GAAP net income in the third quarter, excluding certain items, was up 48 percent to $393 million. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were up 40 percent to $1.26. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
 
"This was another record quarter for EA," said Larry Probst, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We once again strengthened our position on current generation consoles and on the PCand were number one in both North America and Europe. The Company had 11 titles that sold over a million units in the quarterled by Need for Speed Underground which was the number one title this holiday season."
 
"Our portfolio of franchise hits continues to grow," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "In the last twelve months we had 27 platinum titleseach selling more than a million units. This compares to 22 platinum titles just a year ago."
 
(comparisons are to the quarter ended December 31, 2002)
Highlights for the Quarter
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The following forward-looking statements reflect expectations as of January 27, 2004. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as changes in the overall global economy, actual consumer spending, consumer acceptance of our products, development delays and other risk factors referenced below in this release.
 
Fiscal Fourth Quarter ExpectationsEnding March 31, 2004
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year ExpectationsEnding March 31, 2004
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Electronic Arts uses non-GAAP measures of operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures exclude the following items, including the related tax effect, from the Company's statement of operations:
 
 
 
 
 
The Company believes that excluding these items is useful for illustrating and explaining operating results and comparisons to prior periods. Management considers these non-GAAP measures in its decision-making to facilitate more relevant operating comparisons.
 
A reconciliation of GAAP operating income to non-GAAP operating income; GAAP net income to non-GAAP net income; and GAAP diluted earnings per share to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are included as part of the supplemental disclosures to this release.
 
Conference Call
 
Electronic Arts will host a conference call on January 27, 2004 at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) to review the results of the Company's quarter ended December 31, 2003. Listeners may access the conference call live through a dial-in number ((719) 457-2654, access code 220497) or via webcast (). A dial-in replay of the conference call will be available until February 3, 2004 at (719) 457-0820, access code 220497. The webcast archive of the conference call will be available for one year and may be accessed at .
http://investor.ea.com
http://investor.ea.com
 
Some statements set forth in this release, including those under the heading "Business Outlook," contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risks and actual events or actual future results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements due to such risks and uncertainties. Some of the factors which could cause our results to differ materially include the following: our ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; the seasonality and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; timely development and release of our products; our ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties; consumer spending trends; retention of key personnel; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of our products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of our products; and other factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended March 31, 2003 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. If any of these risks or uncertainties materializes, our results could differ materially from our expectations described in these forward-looking statements. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the "Business Outlook" heading.
 
Note to Editors: Need for Speed, The Sims, Medal of Honor and Medal of Honor Pacific Assault are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. The Lord of the Rings and The Return of the King are trademarks of The Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Tolkien Enterprises under license to New Line Productions, Inc. HARRY POTTER and all related characters and elements are trademarks of and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. Harry Potter Publishing Rights JKR. NFL, NBA and FIFA are trademarks of their respective owners and used with permission. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates and charges for acquired in-process technology. In addition, income taxes are calculated on a consolidated effective tax rate of 30% and 31% for fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables show the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges,other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates, charges for acquired in-process technology and their related income tax effect.
 
 
 
 
 
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


