FILE:EA/EA-8K-20050125161354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 25, 2005, Electronic Arts Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
January 25, 2005Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced financial results for the fiscal third quarter ended December 31, 2004.
REDWOOD SHORES, CA
 
Net revenue was $1.428 billion, down 3.2 percent as compared with $1.475 billion for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2003. Sales were driven by andeach reaching platinum status in the quarter. andhad continued strong sales each selling over one million copies in the quarter.
Need for Speed Underground 2, FIFA 2005, The Lord of the Rings, The Third Age, NBA LIVE 2005, The Urbz: Sims in the City, Golden Eye: Rogue Agent
The Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle- earth
Madden NFL 2005, The Sims 2
Tiger Woods PGA TOUR 2005
 
EA entered into long-term agreements with both the National Football League and ESPN. In addition, the Company agreed to purchase shares representing approximately 19.9 percent of Ubisoft Entertainment, a leading developer and publisher of interactive entertainment.
 
Net income was $375 million, a 4.4 percent decrease year-over-year. Diluted earnings per share were $1.18 as compared to $1.26 a year ago.
 
Non-GAAP net income, excluding certain items, was $391 million, roughly flat year-over-year. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $1.23 as compared to $1.26. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
 
Trailing twelve month operating cash flow was a record $722 million as compared to $538 million for the same period a year ago  an increase of $184 million.
 
"This quarter, EA further strengthened its long term leadership position," said Larry Probst, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Our exclusive agreements with the NFL, NFLPA and ESPN, along with our strategic investment in Ubisoft will help provide the framework for continued growth in the future."
 
"We expect calendar 2005 to be a defining year," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "While the year ahead will certainly be a year of investment for EA, we expect to see growth through new exciting platforms, a rich slate of great entertainment and further globalization of our business."
 
(comparisons are to the quarter ended December 31, 2003, unless otherwise stated)
Current Highlights
 
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The following forward-looking statements reflect expectations as of January 25, 2005. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as changes in foreign exchange rates, the overall global economy, the popular appeal of our products, our effective tax rate, development delays, our ability to secure key licenses and other factors detailed in this release and in our annual and quarterly SEC filings.
 
Fiscal Year ExpectationsEnding March 31, 2005
 
 
Our expected results include the projected impact of our share repurchase program.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Electronic Arts uses non-GAAP measures of operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures exclude the following items, including any related tax effect, from the Company's statement of operations:
 
 
In addition, other significant unforeseeable and non-recurring items may occur from time to time that require an adjustment to these non-GAAP measures. For example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, a $20 million non-recurring benefit to the Company's income tax expense was included in the GAAP results but excluded from the non-GAAP results. When these items occur, the accounting impact will become a reconciling item between the GAAP results and these non-GAAP measures. In addition, they will be described in the reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results included as part of the supplemental disclosures to the related release.
 
The Company believes that excluding these items is useful for illustrating and explaining operating results and comparisons to prior periods. Management considers these non-GAAP measures in its decision-making to facilitate more relevant operating comparisons.
 
A reconciliation of GAAP operating income to non-GAAP operating income; GAAP net income to non-GAAP net income; and GAAP diluted earnings per share to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are included as part of the supplemental disclosures to this release.
 
Conference Call
 
Electronic Arts will host a conference call on January 25, 2005 at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) to review the results for the Company's third quarter ended December 31, 2004. Listeners may access the conference call live via webcast (). A webcast archive of the conference call will be available for one year at http://investor.ea.com.
http://investor.ea.com
 
Some statements set forth in this release, including those under the heading "Business Outlook," contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risks and actual events or actual future results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements due to such risks and uncertainties. Some of the factors which could cause our results to differ materially from our expectations include the following: our ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; the seasonality and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; timely development and release of our products; our ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties on favorable terms; consumer spending trends; competition in our industry; our ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in effective tax rates; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of our products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of our products; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; and other factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2004 and in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the "Business Outlook" heading.
 
Note to Editors: Need for Speed, The Sims, The Urbz, Sims in the City and John Madden Football are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. The Lord of the Rings and the names of the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks of the Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Tolkien Enterprises under license to New Line Productions, Inc. GoldenEye Rogue Agent is a trademark of Danjaq, LLC and United Artists Corporation. NBA, NFL, Tiger Woods, PGA TOUR and FIFA are trademarks of their respective owners and used with permission. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (in thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, employee stock-based compensation, acquired in-process technology, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates and their related income tax effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables show the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, employee stock-based compensation, acquired-in-process technology, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates, and their related income tax effect. The three months and year ended March 31, 2004 also exclude the impact of a one-time income tax adjustment.
 
 
 
The following tables show the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, employee stock-based compensation, acquired-in-process technology, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates, and their related income tax effect. The three months and year ended March 31, 2004 also exclude the impact of a one-time income tax adjustment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
Had the Company's stock-based compensation plans been measured on the estimated fair value at the grant dates in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financials Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", we estimate that our reported net income and net earnings per share would have been the pro forma amounts indicated below:
 


