FILE:EA/EA-8K-20050503161721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 3, 2005, Electronic Arts Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended March 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 May 3, 2005  Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced preliminary financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2005.
REDWOOD CITY, CA
 
Full Year Results
 
Net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 was $3.129 billion, up 6 percent as compared with $2.957 billion for the prior year. EA had 31 platinum titles (over one million units sold) in fiscal 2005 compared to 27 a year ago. Six franchises sold more than five million units: , , , , and .
The Sims
Need for Speed
Madden NFL Football
FIFA
The Lord of the Rings
Harry Potter
 
Net income for the year was $504 million as compared with $577 million for the prior year. Diluted earnings per share were $1.59 as compared with $1.87 for the prior year.
 
Non-GAAP net income for the year, which excludes certain items, was $543 million as compared with $566 million for the prior year. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $1.71 as compared with $1.84 for the prior year. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
 
Operating cash flow was $634 million as compared with $669 million a year ago.
 
"As we begin the new fiscal year, we are focused on successfully navigating through the console transition," said Larry Probst, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "EA has the people, franchises and strategies to extend our leadership on next generation platforms."
 
"This is a year of execution and investment," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "We have a strong title line up that allows us to make investments for long-term leadership."
 
(comparisons are to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004)
Highlights for the Year
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Results
 
Net revenue for the fourth quarter was $553 million, down 8 percent as compared with $598 million for the prior year. Sales were driven by and
NBA STREET 3, EA SPORTS Fight Night Round 2, Need for Speed Underground 2, FIFA STREET
Time Splitters Future Perfect.
 
Net income for the quarter was $8 million, as compared with $90 million for the prior year. Diluted earnings per share were $0.02 for the quarter, as compared with $0.29 for the prior year. The decrease in net income was driven by lower net revenues at a lower gross margin and higher operating costs.
 
Non-GAAP net income was $30 million as compared with $77 million for the prior year. Non-GAAP net income excludes a $21 million pretax charge associated with employment-related litigation. Non-GAAP net income also excludes $9 million primarily attributable to pretax acquisition-related charges. Non-GAAP net income for the prior year excludes a $20 million non-recurring income tax benefit and $10 million primarily related to pretax restructuring charges.
 
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.09, as compared with $0.25 for the prior year. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
 
Business Outlook
 
The following forward-looking statements reflect expectations as of May 3, 2005. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as changes in foreign exchange rates, the overall global economy, the popular appeal of EA's products, competition in the industry, the ability of console manufacturers to meet demand, EA's effective tax rate, development delays, EA's ability to secure key licenses and other factors detailed in this release and in EA's annual and quarterly SEC filings.
 
Fiscal Year Expectations  Ending March 31, 2006
 
 
Fiscal First Quarter Expectations  Ending June 30, 2005
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Electronic Arts uses non-GAAP measures of operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures exclude the following items, including any related tax effect, from the Company's statement of operations:
 
 
In addition, other significant unforeseeable and non-recurring items may occur from time to time that require an adjustment to these non-GAAP measures. For example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, a $20 million non-recurring benefit to the Company's income tax expense was included in the GAAP results but excluded from the non-GAAP results. When these items occur, the accounting impact will become a reconciling item between the GAAP results and these non-GAAP measures.
 
The Company believes that excluding these items is useful for illustrating and explaining operating results and comparisons to prior periods. Management considers these non-GAAP measures in its decision-making to facilitate more relevant operating comparisons.
 
A reconciliation of GAAP operating income to non-GAAP operating income; GAAP net income to non-GAAP net income; and GAAP diluted earnings per share to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is included as part of the supplemental disclosures to this release.
 
Conference Call
 
Electronic Arts will host a conference call on May 3, 2005 at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) to review the results for the Company's fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. Listeners may access the conference call live via webcast (). A webcast archive of the conference call will be available for one year at http://investor.ea.com.
http://investor.ea.com
 
Some statements set forth in this release, including the estimates under the heading "Business Outlook," contain forward-looking statements that are subject to change. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or actual future results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from its expectations include the following: competition in the interactive entertainment industry; the availability of an adequate supply of hardware platforms; the Company's ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; consumer spending trends; the seasonal and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; timely development and release of Electronic Arts' products; the Company's ability to manage expenses during fiscal year 2006; the Company's ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties on favorable terms; the Company's ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in the Company's effective tax rates; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of the Company's products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of the Company's products; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; and other factors
 
described in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2004 and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2004. Electronic Arts does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the "Business Outlook" heading.
 
Note to Editors: Need for Speed, The Sims, John Madden Football, Burnout and Black are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. RenderWare is a trademark or registered trademark of Criterion Software Ltd. The Lord of the Rings and the names of the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks of the Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Tolkien Enterprises under license to New Line Productions, Inc. HARRY POTTER and all related characters and elements are trademarks of and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. TimeSplitters Future Perfect is a trademark of Free Radical Design Ltd. NBA, NFL, and FIFA are trademarks of their respective owners and used with permission. PSP is a trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (in millions, except per share data)
 
The following table shows the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, employee stock-based compensation, acquired in-process technology, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, certain non-recurring litigation expenses and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates and their related income tax effect. The three months and year ending March 31, 2004 also exclude the impact of a one-time income tax benefit.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables show the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, employee stock-based compensation, acquired-in-process technology, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, certain non-recurring litigation expenses, and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates, and their related income tax effect. The three months and year ended March 31, 2004 also exclude the impact of a one-time income tax adjustment.
 
 
 
The following tables show the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, employee stock-based compensation, acquired-in-process technology, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, certain non-recurring litigation expenses, and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates, and their related income tax effect. The three months and year ended March 31, 2004 also exclude the impact of a one-time income tax adjustment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Had the Company's stock-based compensation plans been measured on the estimated fair value at the grant dates in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", we estimate that our reported net income (loss) and net earnings (loss) per share would have been the pro forma amounts indicated below:
 
 


