FILE:EA/EA-8K-20060503162453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 3, 2006, Electronic Arts Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 May 3, 2006  Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced preliminary financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2006.
REDWOOD CITY, CA
Fourth Quarter Results
Net revenue for the fourth quarter was $641 million, up 16 percent as compared with $553 million for the prior year. Sales were driven by and Six titles sold over one million copies in the quarter compared with four a year ago.
EA SPORTS Fight Night Round 3, The Godfather The Game, BLACK, Need for Speed Most Wanted, FIFA Street 2
The Sims2.
Net loss for the quarter was $16 million, as compared with net income of $8 million for the prior year. Diluted loss per share was $0.05, as compared with diluted earnings per share of $0.02. The net loss was driven primarily by higher operating costs, including restructuring and acquisition-related charges, and certain tax adjustments recorded in the quarter.
Non-GAAP net income was $43 million as compared with $30 million for the prior year. Non-GAAP net income excludes $59 million of charges principally associated with acquisition-related activities, the repatriation of $375 million in foreign earnings in connection with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and restructuring costs. Non-GAAP net income for the prior year excludes $22 million of charges associated with employment-related litigation and acquisition-related activities.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.14, as compared with $0.09 for the prior year. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
Full Year Results
Net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 was $2.951 billion, down six percent as compared with $3.129 billion for the prior year. EA had 27 platinum titles (over one million copies sold) in fiscal 2006 as compared with 31 a year ago. Seven titles sold more than three million copies: and
Need for Speed Most Wanted, Madden NFL 06, FIFA 06, The Sims 2, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, NBA Live 06
Burnout Revenge.
Net income for the year was $236 million as compared with $504 million for the prior year. Diluted earnings per share were $0.75 as compared with $1.59.
Non-GAAP net income for the year, which excludes certain items, was $301 million as compared with $543 million for the prior year. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.96 as compared with $1.71. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
Operating cash flow was $596 million as compared with $634 million a year ago.
 
"This transition is more than a console upgrade," said Larry Probst, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "In addition to creating games for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii, EA is positioning for global leadership in online, handhelds and mobile phones."
"We continue to invest ahead of revenues for long-term leadership," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "We are well into the console transition and now have more than 30 next generation games in development."
(comparisons are to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005)
Highlights for the Year
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook
The following forward-looking statements, as well as those made above, reflect expectations as of May 3, 2006. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as: the timely release of next-generation hardware and the ability of console manufacturers to produce an adequate supply of consoles to meet demand, development delays on EA's products, changes in foreign exchange rates, the overall global economy, the popular appeal of EA's products, competition in the industry, EA's effective tax rate, EA's ability to secure key licenses and other factors detailed in this release and in EA's annual and quarterly SEC filings. For example, EA's expectations for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007 are dependent on Sony's ability to successfully launch the PlayStation3 computer entertainment system in November 2006 and to provide sufficient supplies to satisfy consumer demand during the 2006 holiday season and first quarter of calendar 2007.
Fiscal First Quarter Expectations  Ending June 30, 2006
 
 
 
Fiscal Year Expectations  Ending March 31, 2007
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, Electronic Arts uses certain non-GAAP measures of financial performance. The presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures used by Electronic Arts include non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures exclude the following items from the Company's statement of operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, Electronic Arts may consider whether other significant non-recurring items that arise in the future should also be excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures it uses.
Electronic Arts believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of the Company's core business, operating results or future outlook. Electronic Arts' management uses, and believes that investors benefit from referring to, these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the Company's operating results and when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate comparisons of the Company's performance to prior periods. Electronic Arts further believes that where the adjustments used in calculating non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are based on specific, identifiable charges that impact different line items in the Company's statements of operations (including cost of goods sold, marketing and sales, general and administrative, research and development expense and income tax expense), that it is useful for investors to understand how these specific line items are affected by these adjustments.
 
In the financial tables below, Electronic Arts has provided a reconciliation of the most comparable GAAP financial measure to each non-GAAP financial measure used in this press release.
Conference Call
Electronic Arts will host a conference call on May 3, 2006 at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) to review the results for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 and to discuss its outlook for the future. During the course of the call, Electronic Arts may also disclose material developments affecting its business and/or financial performance.Listeners may access the conference call live through the following dial-in number (800) 946-0706, access code 220497, or a webcast: .
http://investor.ea.com
A dial-in replay of the conference call will be provided until May 10, 2006 at (719) 457-0820, access code 220497. The webcast archive of the conference call will be available for one year at .
http://investor.ea.com
Some statements set forth in this release, including the estimates under the heading "Business Outlook," contain forward-looking statements that are subject to change. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or actual future results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from its expectations include the following: the timely release of next-generation hardware; the availability of an adequate supply of current-generation and next-generation hardware units (including the Microsoft Xbox 360, Sony PlayStation 3 and Nintendo Wii); the Company's ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; consumer spending trends; the seasonal and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; timely development and release of Electronic Arts' products; competition in the interactive entertainment industry; the Company's ability to manage expenses during fiscal year 2007, the Company's ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties on favorable terms; the Company's ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in the Company's effective tax rates; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of the Company's products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of the Company's products; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; and other factors described in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2005 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2005. These forward-looking statements speak only as of May 3, 2006. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the "Business Outlook" heading. In addition, the financial results set forth in this release are estimates based on information currently available to Electronic Arts. While Electronic Arts believes these estimates are meaningful, they could differ from the actual amounts that Electronic Arts ultimately reports in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these estimates prior to filing its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006.
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA), headquartered in Redwood City, California, is the world's leading interactive entertainment software company. Founded in 1982, the company develops, publishes, and distributes interactive software worldwide for videogame systems, personal computers and the Internet. Electronic Arts markets its products under four brand names: EA SPORTS
TM
, EA
TM
, EA SPORTS BIG
TM
and POGO
TM
. In fiscal 2006, EA posted revenue of $2.95 billion and had 27 titles that sold more than one million copies. EA's homepage and online game site is . More information about EA's products and full text of press releases can be found on the Internet at .
www.ea.com
http://info.ea.com
 
Electronic Arts, EA, EA SPORTS, EA SPORTS BIG, POGO, Black, Need for Speed, Burnout and The Sims are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. FIFA, John Madden, NFL , NBA and Tiger Woods are property of their respective owners and used with permission. The Godfather ,  and  2006 Paramount Pictures. All Rights Reserved. HARRY POTTER and all related characters and elements are trademarks of and  Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. Harry Potter Publishing Rights  JKR. Xbox and Xbox 360 are registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. PlayStation is a registered trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Wii is a trademark of Nintendo. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (in millions, except per share data)
 
The following table reconciles the Company's net income (loss) and diluted earnings per share as presented in its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") with its non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share. The Company's non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share exclude acquired in-process technology, amortization of intangibles, employee stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, and certain litigation expense. In addition, the Company's non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share also exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
GAAP and Non-GAAP Results (in millions, except per share and percentage data)
 
The following table presents the Company's Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with GAAP reconciled to its non-GAAP Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results exclude acquisition accounting expenses (consisting of acquired in-process technology and amortization of intangibles), employee stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, and other charges, if any (consisting of asset impairment charges, certain litigation expense and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates). In addition, the Company's non-GAAP results also exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
GAAP and Non-GAAP Results (in millions, except per share and percentage data)
 
The following table presents the Company's Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with GAAP reconciled to its non-GAAP Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results exclude acquisition accounting expenses (consisting of acquired in-process technology and amortization of intangibles), employee stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, and other charges, if any (consisting of asset impairment charges, certain litigation expense and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates). In addition, the Company's non-GAAP results also exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
GAAP and Non-GAAP Results (in millions, except per share data)
 
The following table presents the Company's Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with GAAP reconciled to its non-GAAP Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results exclude acquisition accounting expenses (consisting of acquired in-process technology and amortization of intangibles), employee stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, and other charges, if any (consisting of asset impairment charges, certain litigation expense and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates). In addition, the Company's non-GAAP results also exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
GAAP and Non-GAAP Results (in millions, except per share data)
 
The following table presents the Company's Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with GAAP reconciled to its non-GAAP Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results exclude acquisition accounting expenses (consisting of acquired in-process technology and amortization of intangibles), employee stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, and other charges, if any (consisting of asset impairment charges, certain litigation expense and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates). In addition, the Company's non-GAAP results also exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
 
 
 
Had the Company's stock-based compensation plans been measured on the estimated fair value at the grant dates in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", the Company estimates that its reported net income (loss) and net earnings (loss) per share would have been the pro forma amounts indicated below:
 
 
Commencing April 1, 2006, the Company will adopt SFAS 123R and accordingly begin to expense stock-based compensation in its Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Note:
 
**Distribution Deal
 
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


