FILE:EA/EA-8K-20060202161315.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 2, 2006, Electronic Arts Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 February 2, 2006  Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced financial results for the fiscal third quarter ended December 31, 2005.
REDWOOD CITY, CA
 
Net revenue was $1.270 billion, down 11 percent as compared with $1.428 billion for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2004. Sales were driven byandeach selling over two million copies in the quarter. andalso had strong sales, each selling over one million copies in the quarter.
Need for Speed Most Wanted, FIFA 06, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, The Sims 2
Madden NFL 06,
NBA Live 06, SSX On Tour, Tiger PGA TOUR 06, From Russia with Love
Battlefield 2: Modern Combat
 
Net income for the quarter was $259 million as compared with $375 million for the prior year. Diluted earnings per share were $0.83 as compared with $1.18 for the prior year.
 
Non-GAAP net income for the quarter, excluding certain items, was $268 million as compared with $391 million a year ago. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.86 as compared with $1.23 for the prior year. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
 
Trailing twelve month operating cash flow was $733 million as compared with $722 million for the same period a year ago.
 
"We ended 2005 in a very strong competitive position," said Larry Probst, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We were number one on the PlayStation 2, the Xbox, PSP and PC in both North America and Europe. We also had a successful launch on the Xbox 360 and expect that we will be the number one publisher on this platform in 2006."
 
"Calendar 2006 will be a year of investment ahead of revenues," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "Our resources will be focused on next-generation software and the global expansion of our online and mobile businesses."
 
(comparisons are to the quarter ended December 31, 2004, unless otherwise stated)
Current Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The following forward-looking statements reflect expectations as of February 2, 2006. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as consumer spending trends, the popular appeal of EA's products, development delays, current-generation and next-generation hardware availability, timely release of next-generation hardware platforms, the seasonal and cyclical nature of the interactive entertainment industry, the overall economy, competition, changes in foreign exchange rates, EA's effective tax rate, and other factors detailed in this release and EA's annual and quarterly SEC filings.
 
Fiscal Fourth Quarter Expectations  Ending March 31, 2006
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Electronic Arts uses non-GAAP measures of operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures exclude the following items, including any related tax effect, from the Company's statement of operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Company's non-GAAP results exclude the impact of one-time tax adjustments.
 
Other significant non-recurring items may occur from time to time that require an adjustment to these non-GAAP measures. When these items occur, the accounting impact will become a reconciling item between the GAAP results and these non-GAAP measures.
 
The Company believes that excluding these items is useful for illustrating and explaining operating results and comparisons to prior periods. Management considers these non-GAAP measures in its decision-making to facilitate more relevant operating comparisons.
 
A reconciliation of GAAP operating income to non-GAAP operating income; GAAP net income to non-GAAP net income; and GAAP diluted earnings per share to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is included as part of the supplemental disclosures to this release.
 
Conference Call
 
Electronic Arts will host a conference call on February 2, 2006 at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) to review the results for the Company's third quarter ended December 31, 2005 and to discuss its outlook the future. Listeners may access the conference call live via webcast (). A webcast archive of the conference call will be available for one year at http://investor.ea.com.
http://investor.ea.com
 
Some statements set forth in this release, including the estimates under the heading "Business Outlook," contain forward-looking statements that are subject to change. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or actual future results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from its expectations include the following: sales of the Company's titles during the remainder of fiscal year 2006; consumer spending trends; the seasonal and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; timely development and release of Electronic Arts' products; competition in the interactive entertainment industry; the Company's ability to manage expenses during fiscal year 2006; the timely release of next-generation hardware; the availability of an adequate supply of current-generation and next-generation hardware units; the Company's ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; the Company's ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties on favorable terms; the Company's ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in the Company's effective tax rates; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of the Company's products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of the Company's products; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; and other factors described in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2005 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. These forward-looking statements speak only as of February 2, 2006. Electronic Arts does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the "Business Outlook" heading.
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (in millions, except per share data)
 
The following table shows the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, employee stock-based compensation, acquired in-process technology, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, certain litigation expense and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates and their related income tax effect. In addition, the Company's non-GAAP results also exclude the impact of one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
 
 
The following tables show the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, employee stock-based compensation, acquired-in-process technology, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, certain litigation expense, and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates, and their related income tax effect. In addition, the Company's non-GAAP results also exclude the impact of one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
The following tables show the Company's non-GAAP results reconciled to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's non-GAAP results do not include amortization of intangibles, employee stock-based compensation, acquired-in-process technology, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, certain litigation expense , and other-than-temporary impairment of investments in affiliates, and their related income tax effect. In addition, the Company's non-GAAP results also exclude the impact of one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
 
 
 
Had the Company's stock-based compensation plans been measured on the estimated fair value at the grant dates in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", we estimate that our reported net income and net earnings per share would have been the pro forma amounts indicated below:
 
 
 
 
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


