FILE:EA/EA-8K-20060801161149.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 1, 2006, Electronic Arts Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 August 1, 2006  Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced preliminary financial results for its first fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006.
REDWOOD CITY, CA
 
First Quarter Results
 
Net revenue for the first quarter was $413 million, up 13 percent as compared with $365 million for the prior year. Sales were driven primarily by and
2006 FIFA World Cup, Battlefield 2: Modern Combat, Need for Speed Most Wanted, The Sims 2
EA SPORTS Fight Night Round 3.
 
Gross profit for the quarter was $245 million up 14 percent year-over-year. This increase was more than offset by the expensing of stock-based compensation. The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R " in the quarter.
Share-Based Payment"
 
Net loss for the quarter was $81 million as compared with $58 million for the prior year. Diluted loss per share was $0.26 as compared with $0.19.
 
Non-GAAP net loss was $38 million as compared with $55 million a year ago. Non-GAAP diluted loss per share was $0.12 as compared with $0.18. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
 
Trailing twelve month operating cash flow was $589 million as compared with $669 million a year ago. The Company ended the quarter with cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $2.4 billion.
 
"We're pleased to be the leading publisher on the Xbox 360," said Larry Probst, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We are on schedule with strong support for the launch of PlayStation 3 and we have increased our development efforts for the Nintendo DS and Wii."
 
"We look forward to our slate of fall launches and the excitement surrounding next-generation software," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "While the risks of this technology transition remain very real  our franchises are well-positioned for the opportunities ahead."
 
(comparisons are to the quarter ended June 30, 2005)
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The following forward-looking statements, as well as those made above, reflect expectations as of August 1, 2006. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as: the timely release of next-generation hardware and the ability of console manufacturers to produce an adequate supply of consoles to meet demand, development delays on EA's products, changes in foreign exchange rates, the overall global economy, the popular appeal of EA's products, competition in the industry, EA's effective tax rate and other factors detailed in this release and in EA's annual and quarterly SEC filings. For example, EA's expectations for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007 are dependent on the successful launch of the PlayStation3 computer entertainment system and the Wii in the 2006 holiday season.
 
Fiscal Second Quarter Expectations  Ending September 30, 2006
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year Expectations  Ending March 31, 2007
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, Electronic Arts uses certain non-GAAP measures of financial performance. The presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures used by
 
Electronic Arts include non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) and historical and estimated non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share. These non-GAAP financial measures exclude the following items from the Company's statement of operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, Electronic Arts may consider whether other significant non-recurring items that arise in the future should also be excluded in calculating the non-GAAP financial measures it uses.
 
Electronic Arts believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of the Company's core business, operating results or future outlook. Electronic Arts' management uses, and believes that investors benefit from referring to, these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the Company's operating results and when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate comparisons of the Company's performance to prior periods. Electronic Arts further believes that where the adjustments used in calculating non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share are based on specific, identifiable charges that impact different line items in the Company's statements of operations (including cost of goods sold, marketing and sales, general and administrative, research and development expense and income tax expense), it is useful for investors to understand how these specific line items are affected by these adjustments.
 
In the financial tables below, Electronic Arts has provided a reconciliation of the most comparable GAAP financial measure to each of the historical non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release.
 
Conference Call
 
Electronic Arts will host a conference call today at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) to review its results for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 and to discuss its outlook for the future. During the course of the call, Electronic Arts may also disclose material developments affecting its business and/or financial performance.Listeners may access the conference call live through the following dial-in number (800) 500-0311, access code 220497, or a webcast: .
http://investor.ea.com
 
A dial-in replay of the conference call will be provided until August 8, 2006 at (719) 457-0820, access code 220497. The webcast archive of the conference call will be available for one year at .
http://investor.ea.com
 
Some statements set forth in this release, including the estimates under the heading "Business Outlook," contain forward-looking statements that are subject to change. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or actual future results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in the forward-
 
looking statements. Some of the factors which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from its expectations include the following: the timely release of next-generation hardware; the availability of an adequate supply of current-generation and next-generation hardware units (including the Microsoft Xbox 360, Sony PlayStation 3 and Nintendo Wii); the Company's ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; consumer spending trends; the seasonal and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; timely development and release of Electronic Arts' products; competition in the interactive entertainment industry; the Company's ability to manage expenses during fiscal year 2007; the Company's ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in the Company's effective tax rates; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of the Company's products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of the Company's products; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the Company's ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties on favorable terms and other factors described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006. These forward-looking statements speak only as of August 1, 2006. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the "Business Outlook" heading. In addition, the financial results set forth in this release are estimates based on information currently available to Electronic Arts. While Electronic Arts believes these estimates are meaningful, they could differ from the actual amounts that Electronic Arts ultimately reports in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these estimates prior to filing its Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006.
 
About Electronic Arts
 
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA), headquartered in Redwood City, California, is the world's leading interactive entertainment software company. Founded in 1982, the company develops, publishes, and distributes interactive software worldwide for videogame systems, personal computers, cellular handsets and the Internet. Electronic Arts markets its products under four brand names: EA SPORTS
, EA
, EA SPORTS BIG
and POGO
. In fiscal 2006, EA posted revenue of $2.95 billion and had 27 titles that sold more than one million copies. EA's homepage and online game site is . More information about EA's products and full text of press releases can be found on the Internet at .
www.ea.com
http://info.ea.com
 
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (in millions, except per share data)
 
The following table reconciles the Company's net loss and diluted loss per share as presented in its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") with its non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP loss per share. The Company's non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP loss per share exclude acquired in-process technology, amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, and certain litigation expense. In addition, the Company's non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP loss per share also exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables reconcile the Company's operating income (loss), net income (loss) and diluted earnings (loss) per share as presented in its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") with its non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAP net income (loss), and non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share. The Company's non-GAAP operating income (loss), net income (loss) and non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share exclude acquired in-process technology, amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, and certain litigation expense. In addition, the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share also exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Co-Publishing Deals
**Distribution Deals
 
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


