FILE:EA/EA-8K-20060927162103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
On September 26, 2006, in connection with his relocation to Electronic Arts Inc.'s ("EA") international publishing headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, Dr. Gerhard Florin, EA's Executive Vice President and General Manager, International Publishing, entered into an agreement with EA Swiss Srl setting forth the terms and conditions of his employment ("Florin Employment Agreement"). The following summary of the material terms of the Florin Employment Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the agreement itself, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The Florin Employment Agreement contains standard terms and conditions generally applicable to all full-time EA employees in Switzerland. The Florin Employment Agreement also incorporates certain terms of Dr. Florin's September 2, 2005 offer letter and the international relocation letter accepted by Dr. Florin on September 6, 2005, both of which were previously disclosed in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by EA on September 8, 2005 and are incorporated herein by reference. The Florin Employment Agreement further provides for: (i) Dr. Florin's salary (729,485 Swiss francs); (ii) eligibility for a discretionary bonus; (iii) a notice period of six months in the event of termination of Dr. Florin's employment (other than for gross misconduct on the part of Dr. Florin); (iv) a redundancy payment of 16 weeks salary (determined by the number of years of Dr. Florin's previous service to the Company according to EA's standard policy regarding the calculation of redundancy payments) in the event that Dr. Florin is made redundant (, the Company no longer requires the services for which Dr. Florin is employed, or his position is relocated to another EA entity) within 3 years after the effective date of the Florin Employment Agreement; (v) payment of air fare and relocation of household goods for Dr. Florin and his family back to the UK in the event that Dr. Florin is made redundant within 2 years after the effective date of the Florin Employment Agreement; (vi) a six-month period following the termination of Dr. Florin's employment during which he is prohibited from soliciting or providing goods or services to, in competition with the Company, certain customers of the Company, (vii) a six-month period following the termination of Dr. Florin's employment during which he is prohibited from contracting with or engaging, in competition with the Company, certain suppliers of the Company; (viii) a six-month period following the termination of Dr. Florin's employment during which he is prohibited from employing, or engaging or offering employment to certain employees of the Company; and (ix) a six-month period following termination of Dr. Florin's employment during which he is restricted from competing with the Company in Switzerland.
i.e.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
AN AGREEMENT made on 26 September 2006
BETWEEN:-
with registered office at Place du Molard 8, 1204, Geneva, Switzerland ("the Company") and
(1) EA Swiss Srl,
["YOU", "YOUR" OR "YOURS"]
(2) GERHARD FLORIN, 10B CHEMIN DES PRINCES, COLOGNY
IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please refer to the Company's policies for full details of all other benefits available to you including but not limited to any car cash allowance, accident/sickness and permanent health insurance benefits. These policies are available from the Human Resources Department.
 
 
 
 
In addition to the statutory public Holidays normally observed in the Canton of Geneva according to the Law on Public Holidays (J.1.45; January 1st, Good Friday, Easter
 
Monday, Ascension, Whit Monday, August 1st, Jene genevois, Christmas and December 31st), you will be entitled to 27 working days holiday in each calendar year. The entitlement to holiday shall accrue pro rata throughout the holiday year which runs from 1 April to 31 March.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company may at its expense and at any time (whether you are absent from work or not) request that you be examined or tested by a medical practitioner appointed by the Company so that the Company can receive medical advice about you. If you unreasonably refuse consent to such a request or unreasonably fail to attend or arrange appointments then the Employer may withhold any sick pay that you might otherwise have received and/or take decisions affecting you without the medical information it was seeking.
 
During your employment, you will not without the prior written consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) be engaged, concerned or interested in any business or undertaking whatsoever other than the business of the Company (except as the owner for investment of shares or other securities quoted on a public stock exchange and not exceeding 5% of the total issued shares of any company).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon any termination of your employment you shall:
 
 
 
 
"" means those goods or services provided by the Company in the ordinary course of its business during the period of 12 months immediately prior to the Termination Date.
Restricted Goods or Services
"" means any firm, company or other person who, during the period of 12 months ending on the date of the termination of your employment, was a customer of or in the habit of dealing with the Company and with whom you had contact in the course of your employment.
Restricted Customer
"" means any person who, at the date of the termination of your employment, was an employee of the Company with whom you had dealings in the 12 months prior to the termination of the Employment.
Restricted Employee
"" means any person who, during the twelve months ending on the date of your termination, had contracted with or been engaged by (or was negotiating to contract with or be engaged by) the Company to manufacture, assemble, supply or deliver products, goods, materials or services to the Company and with whom you had contact in the course of your employment.
Restricted Supplier
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is the policy of the Company to promote the health, safety and welfare at work of all its employees. Consistent with that policy, and within the meaning of the Federal Law on work in Industry, handicraft and commerce of 13 March 1964 (RS 822.11) and subsequent relevant legislation, it is your responsibility to undertake your duties in such a way as not to
 
endanger your own health and safety or that of your fellow employees, to use such safety equipment as may be provided, and to observe such safety regulations as may be, from time to time, in force. Breach of safety regulations is a serious disciplinary issue.
 
 
 
 
The Company carries out monitoring of its premises for security purposes and reserves the right in certain situations to monitor the usage of its IT and communication facilities. The circumstances and purposes for which it does so can be explained by the Human Resources department.
 
You must treat all fellow employees and people with whom you have contact in connection with your work with respect and on their merits irrespective of their sex, marital status, sexuality, religion, colour, race, ethnic or national origin or any disability which they may have. Sexual, racial and disability-related harassment and bullying is likely to be gross misconduct for which you may be dismissed.
 
This Agreement and your offer letter dated 2 September 2005 contains the whole Agreement between you and the Company in connection with your employment. It replaces all previous terms and conditions (whether in writing or not) connected with your employment by the Company. There are no collective agreements in place. By signing this Agreement you confirm that you are not entering into employment with the Company in reliance upon any oral or written representations made to you by the Company, its employees or agents.
 
 
 
 
Notices given under this Agreement shall be in writing and if to be given to the Company may be delivered or dispatched by first class post to its registered office and if to be given to you may be handed to you or sent to your last known residential address by registered mail. You must keep the Company informed of any changes of your address. A notice dispatched by registered mail is deemed to be given seven days after dispatch and in proving service it shall be sufficient to prove that the envelope containing the notice was properly addressed, prepaid and posted.
 
In case it be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that any provision herein contained is illegal or unenforceable, such determination shall solely affect such provision and shall not impair the remaining provisions of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
 
The waiver by the Company of a breach or default of any provision of this Agreement by you shall not be construed as a waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or any other provision; nor shall any delay or omission of the Company to exercise or avail itself of any right, power or privilege that it has or may have hereunder operate as a waiver of any right, power or privilege of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT has been entered into by the parties on the date first above written.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY
 
I have read, understood, agree and accept the terms and conditions of employment set out in this Agreement.
 
 


