FILE:EA/EA-8K-20071101162340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On November 1, 2007, Electronic Arts Inc. ("EA") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
The following discussion of the reorganization of EA's business contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, including statements about EA's expectations regarding future restructuring charges, operating expenses and other costs are forward looking. EA uses words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "expect", "intend" (and the negative of any of these terms), "future" and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect management's current expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from the expectations set forth in these forward-looking statements. EA will not necessarily update these forward-looking statements if they later turn out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may affect EA's future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed above, under the heading "Risk Factors" in EA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2007, and in other documents EA has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
On October 29, 2007, EA's Board of Directors approved a plan of reorganization (the "Plan") in connection with the reorganization of EA's business into several divisions, including four new "Labels". Pursuant to the Plan, over the next 24 months, EA anticipates (a) closing certain facilities, including EA's facility in Chertsey, England, (b) relocating and/or eliminating certain job positions, (c) incurring costs in connection with lease and other contract terminations, and (d) incurring IT and consulting costs to assist in the reorganization of business support functions. EA intends to treat certain costs that are directly associated with the Plan as "restructuring costs" (as defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 146, ""). Other costs that are not properly classified as restructuring costs will generally be classified as other operating expenses or cost of goods sold in EA's consolidated statements of operations. In accordance with SFAS No. 146, EA will generally expense restructuring costs as they are incurred and accrue costs associated with certain facility closures at the time EA exits the facility.
Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
In connection with the Plan, EA anticipates incurring between $90 million and $110 million in total costs, which it expects to result in cash expenditures of between $55 million and $75 million. EA anticipates incurring between approximately $75 million and $85 million of these charges during fiscal 2008. EA estimates these costs will consist primarily of asset impairment charges related to facility closures (approximately $36 million), relocation, severance and other employee-related costs (approximately $12 million), lease and other contract termination costs (approximately $19 million to $27 million), and IT and consulting costs (approximately $23 million to $35 million).
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 November 1, 2007  Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced preliminary financial results for its second quarter ended September 30, 2007.
REDWOOD CITY, CA
(comparisons are to the quarter ended September 30, 2006)
Fiscal Second Quarter Results
Net revenue for the quarter was $640 million, down 18 percent as compared with $784 million for the prior year. Beginning in fiscal 2008, EA no longer charges for its service related to certain online-enabled packaged goods games. As a result, the Company recognizes revenue from the sale of these games over the estimated service period. This change resulted in a $296 million sequential net increase in deferred net revenue as of September 30, 2007, which will be recognized in future periods.
Sales were driven by , each selling over one million copies.
Madden NFL 08, FIFA 08, NCAA Football 08
Tiger Woods PGA TOUR 08 and MySims,
Gross profit for the quarter was $245 million, down 45 percent year-over-year. Net loss for the quarter was $195 million as compared with net income of $22 million for the prior year. Diluted loss per share was $0.62 as compared with earnings per share of $0.07 for the prior year.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.27 as compared with $0.21 for the prior year. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
"Our strategic priorities on quality, innovation and managing cost are showing progress," said John Riccitiello, Chief Executive Officer. "Highly accessible new properties like SKATE and MySims have broken through with consumers and EA SPORTS continues to deliver great experiences on every platform. We've also announced a restructuring as part of a plan to better align cost with revenues."
"We think this will be a great holiday season for consumers," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "We plan to launch over ten titles including and ."
The Simpsons Game, Need for Speed Pro Street, Hellgate: London, Rock Band, NBA Live 08, SimCity Societies
Crysis
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EA's Reorganization Plan
On October 29, 2007, EA's Board of Directors approved a plan of reorganization in connection with the reorganization of EA's business into several divisions, including four new "Labels". Pursuant to the plan, over the next 24 months, EA anticipates (a) closing certain facilities, including EA's facility in Chertsey, England, (b) relocating and/or eliminating certain job positions, (c) incurring costs in connection with lease and other contract terminations, and (d) incurring IT and consulting costs to assist in the reorganization of business support functions. The Company expects to incur total pre-tax charges of between $90 million and $110 million, the majority of which will be incurred in fiscal 2008. The Company estimates these actions will result in annual pre-tax cost savings of approximately $25 million to $30 million.
Business Outlook
The following forward-looking statements, as well as those made above, reflect expectations as of November 1, 2007. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as: consumer demand for console hardware and the ability of the console manufacturers to produce an adequate supply of consoles to meet that demand; consumer demand for games for legacy consoles, particularly the PlayStation2 computer entertainment system; the popular appeal of EA's products; development delays on EA's products; changes in anticipated costs, expected savings and impact on EA's operations of the Company's reorganization plan; changes in the timing and anticipated financial impact of the Company's acquisition of VG Holding Corp. (BioWare Corp. and Pandemic Studios); changes in foreign exchange rates; the overall global economy; competition in the industry; EA's effective tax rate and other factors detailed in this release and in EA's annual and quarterly SEC filings.
Fiscal Year Expectations  Ending March 31, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Third Quarter Expectations  Ending December 31, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call
Electronic Arts will host a conference call today at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) to review its results for the second quarter fiscal 2008 ended September 30, 2007 and its outlook for the future. During the course of the call, Electronic Arts may also disclose material developments affecting its business and/or financial performance. Listeners may access the conference call live through the following dial-in number: (877) 723-9518, access code 220497, or via webcast: .
http://investor.ea.com
A dial-in replay of the conference call will be provided until November 8, 2007 at (719) 457-0820, access code 220497. A webcast archive of the conference call will be available for one year at .
http://investor.ea.com
Analyst Meeting
Electronic Arts will host an analyst meeting on February 12, 2008 at 9:00 am PT (12:00 pm ET) at its corporate headquarters in Redwood City, California.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, Electronic Arts uses certain non-GAAP measures of
financial performance. The presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with the Company's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures used by Electronic Arts include: non-GAAP net revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) and historical and estimated non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share. These non-GAAP financial measures exclude the following items from the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Electronic Arts may consider whether other significant non-recurring items that arise in the future should also be excluded in calculating the non-GAAP financial measures it uses.
Electronic Arts believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of the Company's core business, operating results or future outlook. Electronic Arts' management uses, and believes that investors benefit from referring to, these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the Company's operating results both as a consolidated entity and at the business unit level, as well as when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate comparisons of the Company's performance to prior periods.
In addition to the reasons stated above, which are generally applicable to each of the items Electronic Arts excludes from its non-GAAP financial measures, the Company believes it is appropriate to exclude certain items for the following reasons:
. When analyzing the operating performance of an acquired entity, Electronic Arts' management focuses on the total return provided by the investment (i.e., operating profit generated from the acquired entity as compared to the purchase price paid) without taking into consideration any allocations made for accounting purposes. Because the purchase price for an acquisition necessarily reflects the accounting value assigned to intangible assets (including acquired in-process technology and goodwill), when analyzing the operating performance of an acquisition in subsequent periods, the Company's management excludes the GAAP impact of acquired intangible assets to its financial results. Electronic Arts believes that such an approach is useful in understanding the long-term return provided by an acquisition and that investors benefit from a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the accounting expense associated with acquired intangible assets.
Amortization of Intangibles
In addition, in accordance with GAAP, Electronic Arts generally recognizes expenses for internally-developed intangible assets as they are incurred, notwithstanding the potential future benefit such assets may provide. Unlike internally-developed intangible assets, however, and
also in accordance with GAAP, the Company generally capitalizes the cost of acquired intangible assets and recognizes that cost as an expense over the useful lives of the assets acquired (other than goodwill, which is not amortized, and acquired in-process technology, which is expensed immediately, as required under GAAP). As a result of their GAAP treatment, there is an inherent lack of comparability between the financial performance of internally-developed intangible assets and acquired intangible assets. Accordingly, Electronic Arts believes it is useful to provide, as a supplement to its GAAP operating results, a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles.
. Electronic Arts adopted SFAS 123(R), "" beginning in its fiscal year 2007. When evaluating the performance of its individual business units, the Company does not consider stock-based compensation charges. Likewise, the Company's management teams exclude stock-based compensation expense from their short and long-term operating plans. In contrast, the Company's management teams are held accountable for cash-based compensation and such amounts are included in their operating plans. Further, when considering the impact of equity award grants, Electronic Arts places a greater emphasis on overall shareholder dilution rather than the accounting charges associated with such grants.
Stock-Based Compensation
Share-Based Payment
Video game platforms have historically had a life cycle of four to six years, which causes the video game software market to be cyclical. The Company's management analyzes its business and operating performance in the context of these business cycles, comparing Electronic Arts' performance at similar stages of different cycles. For comparability purposes, Electronic Arts believes it is useful to provide a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of its core business.
Although Electronic Arts has engaged in various restructuring activities in the past, each has been a discrete, extraordinary event based on a unique set of business objectives. Each of these restructurings has been unlike its predecessors in terms of its operational implementation, business impact and scope. The Company does not engage in restructuring activities on a regular basis or in the ordinary course of business. As such, the Company believes it is appropriate to exclude restructuring charges from its non-GAAP financial measures.
Restructuring Charges.
Beginning in fiscal 2008, Electronic Arts is no longer able to objectively determine the fair value of the online service included in certain of its packaged goods games and online content. As a result, the Company recognizes the revenue from the sale of these games and content over the estimated online service period. Although Electronic Arts will defer the recognition of a significant portion of its net revenue as a result of this change, there will be no adverse impact to its operating cash flow. Internally, Electronic Arts' management excludes the impact of the change in deferred net revenue related to packaged goods games and digital content in its non-GAAP financial measures when evaluating the Company's operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of its management team. The Company believes that excluding the impact of the change in deferred net revenue from its operating results is important to facilitate comparisons to prior periods during which the Company was able to objectively determine the fair value of the online service and not delay the recognition of significant amounts of net revenue related to online-enabled packaged goods.
Change in Deferred Net Revenue (Packaged Goods and Digital Content).
 
In the financial tables below, Electronic Arts has provided a reconciliation of the most comparable GAAP financial measure to each of the historical non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release.
Forward-Looking Statements
Some statements set forth in this release, including the estimates under the headings "Business Outlook" contain forward-looking statements that are subject to change. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or actual future results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from its expectations include the following: timely development and release of Electronic Arts' products; competition in the interactive entertainment industry; the Company's ability to successfully implement its reorganization plans; the consumer demand for, and the availability of an adequate supply of console hardware units (including the Xbox 360 video game and entertainment system, the PLAYSTATION3 computer entertainment system and the Wii); consumer demand for software for legacy consoles, particularly the PlayStation 2; the Company's ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; the Company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of its pending acquisition of VG Holding Corp.; consumer spending trends; the seasonal and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; the Company's ability to manage expenses during fiscal year 2008; the Company's ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in the Company's effective tax rates; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of the Company's products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of the Company's products; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the Company's ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties on favorable terms; and other factors described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2007 and Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. These forward-looking statements speak only as of November 1, 2007. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the heading "Business Outlook". In addition, the financial results set forth in this release are estimates based on information currently available to Electronic Arts. While Electronic Arts believes these estimates are meaningful, they could differ from the actual amounts that Electronic Arts ultimately reports in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these estimates prior to filing its Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007.
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA), headquartered in Redwood City, California, is the world's leading interactive entertainment software company. Founded in 1982, the company develops, publishes, and distributes interactive software worldwide for video game systems, personal computers, cellular handsets and the Internet. Electronic Arts markets its products under four brand names: EA SPORTS
TM
, EA
TM
, EA SPORTS BIG
TM
and POGO
TM
. In fiscal 2007, EA posted revenue of $3.09 billion and had 24 titles that sold more than one million copies. EA's homepage and online game site is . More information about EA's products and full text of press releases can be found on the Internet at .
www.ea.com
http://info.ea.com
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
EA, EA SPORTS, EA SPORTS BIG, POGO, MySims, Need for Speed, SimCity, SPORE and The Sims are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Crysis is a trademark of Crytek. Rock Band is a trademark of Harmonix Music Systems, Inc., a division of MTV Networks. The Simpsons is a trademark of Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation. Hellgate: London is a trademark and/or registered trademark of Flagship Studios, Inc. throughout the world. John Madden, NFL, NCAA, Tiger Woods, PGA TOUR, NBA and FIFA are trademarks or other intellectual property of their respective owners and used with permission. "PlayStation" and "PLAYSTATION" are registered trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Xbox and Xbox 360 are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies. Nintendo DS and Wii are trademarks of Nintendo.
 
Non-GAAP Results (in millions, except per share data)
The following tables reconcile the Company's net income (loss) and diluted earnings (loss) per share as presented in its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") to its non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. The Company's non-GAAP results exclude the following, if any: the impact of the change in deferred net revenue (packaged goods and digital content), acquisition-related expenses (such as acquired in-process technology and amortization of intangibles), certain litigation expenses, restructuring charges, and stock-based compensation. In addition, the Company's non-GAAP results exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of certain one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
The following tables reconcile the Company's net revenue, gross profit, operating income (loss), net income (loss) and diluted earnings (loss) per share as presented in its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") with its non-GAAP net revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss), and non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share. The Company's non-GAAP net revenue excludes the impact of the change in deferred net revenue (packaged goods and digital content). The Company's non-GAAP gross profit excludes the impact of the change in deferred net revenue (packaged goods and digital content), COGS amortization of intangibles, and stock-based compensation. The Company's non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss), and non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share exclude the impact of the change in deferred net revenue (packaged goods and digital content), acquired in-process technology, amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, and stock-based compensation. In addition, the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of certain one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
The following tables reconcile the Company's net revenue, gross profit, operating income (loss), net income (loss) and diluted earnings (loss) per share as presented in its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") with its non-GAAP net revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. The Company's non-GAAP net revenue excludes the impact of the change in deferred net revenue (packaged goods and digital content). The Company's non-GAAP gross profit excludes the impact of the change in deferred net revenue (packaged goods and digital content), COGS amortization of intangibles, and stock-based compensation. The Company's non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share exclude the impact of the change in deferred net revenue (packaged goods and digital content), acquired in-process technology, amortization of intangibles, certain litigation expenses, restructuring charges, and stock-based compensation. In addition, the Company's non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of certain one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


