FILE:EA/EA-8K-20070226165223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Departure and Appointment of Executive Officers.
On February 26, 2007, Electronic Arts Inc. (the "Company") announced that on February 21, 2007, the Company and John Riccitiello, age 47, entered into a letter of employment (the "Offer Letter") under which the Company agreed to appoint Mr. Riccitiello as the Company's Chief Executive Officer, effective April 2, 2007. Mr. Riccitiello will succeed Lawrence F. Probst, III, the Company's current Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, who will continue with the Company in the capacity of Executive Chairman and as a member of the Board of Directors. Upon becoming Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Riccitiello will also become a member of the Board of Directors of the Company.
From October 1997 though April 2004, Mr. Riccitiello was the President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. In May 2004, Mr. Riccitiello co-founded Elevation Partners, a private equity firm focused in the media and entertainment industry. Mr. Riccitiello intends to resign as a managing director of Elevation Partners prior to April 2, 2007. In November 2005, Mr. Riccitiello became Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of VG Holdings Corp., a video game development company resulting from the combination of Pandemic Studios, LLC and BioWare Corporation, companies in which Elevation Partners invested. Mr. Riccitiello intends to resign as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of VG Holdings Corp. prior to April 2, 2007. Mr. Riccitiello holds a B.S. degree from the University of California, Berkeley. Mr. Riccitiello also serves on the board of directors of Hyperion Solutions Corporation, a business performance management software company, and Forbes Media LLC, a publishing and media company.
A copy of the press release dated February 26, 2007 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Compensatory Arrangements with Mr. Riccitiello
A copy of the Offer Letter is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The following summary of the Offer Letter does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the attached agreement.
The material terms of the Offer Letter are as follows:
(a) Mr. Riccitiello's annual base salary will be $750,000 and his target bonus percentage will be 100% of his annual base salary.
(b) The Company has agreed to grant to Mr. Riccitiello options to purchase a total of 850,000 shares of Common Stock of the Company pursuant to the Company's 2000 Equity Incentive Plan as follows:
 
 
 
Mr. Riccitiello will participate in the compensation and benefit programs available to the Company's executive officers.
Other Information
The Company has entered into Co-Publishing Agreements regarding the publishing of video games developed by VG Holdings Corp. The aggregate expected value of these transactions, together with an expected future transaction, representing contractual development payments and anticipated royalty payments from the Company to VG Holdings, based on currently forecasted sales of the video games being developed by VG Holdings, is approximately $71 million. This amount is heavily dependent on the future commercial success of these products, and could change materially. Mr. Riccitiello is not a party to these agreements and does not have a financial interest in these agreements. Mr. Riccitiello holds an indirect financial interest in VG Holdings Corp. as a result of his interest in the entity that controls Elevation Partners, L.P. and his interest in a limited partner of Elevation Partners, L.P.
There are no family relationships between Mr. Riccitiello and any director or executive officer of the Company which would require disclosure under Item 401(d) of Regulation S-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
February 12, 2007
John Riccitiello
Dear John:
On behalf of the Board of Directors of Electronic Arts Inc. ("Electronic Arts" or "EA"), I am pleased to offer you the position of Chief Executive Officer of Electronic Arts commencing on April 2, 2007 at a base salary of $62,500 per month [or $750,000 annualized], minus applicable deductions. As CEO, you will report directly to the Board of Directors. You will be appointed to the Board of Directors effective April 2, 2007.
You will also be eligible to participate in our discretionary bonus program. This discretionary bonus is typically determined by our Board of Directors at the end of our fiscal year. As the commencement of your employment with EA coincides with the beginning of EA's fiscal year ending March 31, 2008 ("Fiscal 2008"), you will first be eligible to participate in this bonus program during Fiscal 2008. Your discretionary bonus target will be 100% of your base salary. To receive payment of your bonus you must be employed by Electronic Arts at the time any bonuses are paid.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has approved the grant of non-qualified stock options to purchase a total of 850,000 shares of Common Stock of Electronic Arts under our 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, to vest as follows:
 
 
 
These options will be priced and granted at the close of market on the second trading day following public release of EA's annual financial results for its fiscal year ending March 31, 2007. We currently expect this earnings release to occur on May 1, 2007, though this date is subject to change.
For your information, I have enclosed several documents that will provide an introduction to life at EA, including an overview of our benefits programs and EA's Global Code of Conduct. Other EA policies and procedures are on EA's intranet and will be reviewed with you at orientation. As an officer and member of the Board of Directors of EA, you will be covered by the insurance policies applicable to directors and officers in effect from time to time and will be indemnified against certain liabilities and expenses in accordance with EA's standard indemnity agreement for officers and directors. If you have any questions about this offer or about your eligibility to participate in or to be covered by any of the described benefits, please call me.
 
John Riccitiello
February 12, 2007
Page 2
In the course of your work, you will have access to proprietary materials and concepts. Our offer is contingent on your signing Electronic Arts' New Hire/Proprietary Information Agreement. Two copies are enclosed for signature (please keep one for your own records).
This offer letter contains the entire understanding between you and Electronic Arts as to the terms of your offer of employment and specifically supersedes (i) all previous discussions you may have had with anyone at Electronic Arts regarding those terms and (ii) any previous written offers you may have received.
Should you accept this offer, please plan on attending the Get in the Game Orientation to be held on your first Monday at 9:00 a.m. Please complete and bring the forms in the attached package.
This offer of employment is made contingent upon your providing Electronic Arts with proof that you have the legal right to work in the United States. This will be handled as part of your orientation process.
In addition, EA will conduct a background check pursuant to a written notice you will receive under separate cover, and this offer of employment is contingent upon the results of such check being acceptable to EA.
This offer of employment is valid through Wednesday, February 21
st
, and if not accepted by then, we will assume that you have declined the offer. If you accept this offer, please sign below and return both pages of the original offer letter to me in the enclosed envelope, and we can begin your orientation to EA. Please keep a copy for yourself.
Please join our team and help us be the place where GREAT people create and deliver GREAT games.
If you have any questions regarding this offer, please feel free to contact me.
Sincerely,
 
Enclosures
 
cc: Gary Kusin
      Gabrielle Toledano, for distribution to Personnel File

Exhibit 99.1
 Electronic Arts (NASDAQ - ERTS) today announced that effective April 2, John Riccitiello will serve as the company's Chief Executive Officer and will join the Board of Directors. Larry Probst will continue as Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors.
REDWOOD CITY, CA  Feb. 26, 2007
Mr. Riccitiello served previously as EA's President and Chief Operating Officer responsible for global publishing, online and other corporate functions before leaving the company in 2004.
"We're happy to welcome John back as EA's new CEO," said Larry Probst. "His skill and vision as an executive and his experience in our industry have earned him the respect of our employees and shareholders."
"Leading EA has always been my dream job and I am truly honored that Larry and the Board have given me this opportunity," said John Riccitiello. "This is an extremely well-run company driven by outstanding studio and publishing teams. They've also made strategic investments in new platforms and markets that will help extend EA's industry leadership in the years ahead."
After leaving EA in 2004, he became a co-founder and Managing Partner at Elevation Partners. Among his responsibilities at Elevation, John oversaw the group's videogame business. Mr. Riccitiello also serves on the board of directors of Hyperion Solutions Corporation.
Some statements in the future tense contained in this release are forward-looking statements that are subject to change. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or actual future results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from its expectations are described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2006. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
 
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA), headquartered in Redwood City, California, is the world's leading interactive entertainment software company. Founded in 1982, the company develops, publishes, and distributes interactive software worldwide for videogame systems, personal computers, cellular handsets and the Internet. Electronic Arts markets its products under four brand names: EA SPORTS
TM
, EA
TM
, EA SPORTS BIG
TM
and POGO
TM
. In fiscal 2006, EA posted revenue of $2.95 billion and had 27 titles that sold more than one million copies. EA's homepage and online game site is
www.ea.com
. More information about EA's products and full text of press releases can be found on the Internet at
http://info.ea.com
.
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
For additional information, please contact:
 


