FILE:EA/EA-8K-20070622162133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 18, 2007, Electronic Arts Inc. ("EA") issued a press release in which it announced organizational changes to its operating structure. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with the announced organizational changes, EA eliminated the position of President, Worldwide Studios, which had been held by V. Paul Lee. Pursuant to the terms of an employment agreement EA entered into with Mr. Lee on June 18, 2007 (the "Employment Agreement"), Mr. Lee will continue to be employed by EA as Senior Advisor to EA's Chief Executive Officer. A copy of the Employment Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The following summary of the material terms of the Employment Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the attached copy of the Employment Agreement.
Pursuant to the terms of the Employment Agreement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
AGREEMENT ("Agreement"), made at the City of Vancouver, Province of British Columbia, as of the 18th day of June, 2007,
BETWEEN:
, a corporation with a
ELECTRONIC ARTS (CANADA), INC
principal place of business at 4330 Sanderson in the City of
Burnaby, Province of British Columbia
(hereinafter referred to as the "")
Company
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
domiciled and residing in the City of Vancouver,
V. PAUL LEE
Province of British Columbia
(hereinafter referred to as the "")
Executive
OF THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS:
A.        The Company has directly employed the Executive since a merger in 1991 with Distinctive Software Inc. of which the Executive was a principal shareholder;
B.        The Company is restructuring and the Executive's current position as President of WorldWide Studios is being eliminated.
C.        The Company acknowledges that the restructuring would have resulted in the constructive dismissal of the Executive but the Company recognizes the value the Executive can offer and wishes to continue to employ the Executive in a new capacity;
D.        It is expedient to resolve all outstanding matters relating to the employment of the Executive, and to provide for the basis on which the Executive's services will be provided to the Company; and
E.        The Executive desires to continue such employment and enter into this Agreement.
for the reasons set forth above, and in consideration of the mutual promises and agreements hereinafter set forth, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i) studio operations/management; ii) product development; iii) mergers and acquisitions; and iv) training and knowledge sharing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Company elects to terminate the Agreement for any reason prior to April 4, 2008, the Executive shall have the right to cease working and request that the actual termination date be extended until the earlier of April 4, 2008 or the expiration of all of his Vacation/Sabbatical. If the Executive elects to terminate the Agreement for
 
any reason on or after April 4, 2008, the Executive shall have the right to cease working and request that the actual termination date be extended until the earlier of the expiration of all of his Vacation/ Sabbatical or until the end of the Term ("Vacation/Sabbatical Extension").
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Steve Bene
Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel
Electronic Arts
209 Redwood Shores Parkway
Redwood City, California
 
Paul Lee
With a copy to George Burke
3000 Royal Centre
PO Box 11130
1055 West Georgia Street
Vancouver British Columbia
Canada V6E 3R3
 
provided that a party hereto may from time to time notify the other of a new address to which notices to it shall henceforth until further notice be given. Any notice so delivered or so mailed shall be deemed to be effected, if delivered, on the date of its delivery or, if mailed, on the fifth business day following the date of mailing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the parties hereto have executed this Agreement at the place and as of the date first mentioned above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 June 18, 2007  Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced that the company will organize its business into four Labels: EA Sports, EA Games, EA Casual Entertainment and The Sims. Each Label will operate with dedicated studio and publishing teams focused on consumer-driven priorities. The new structure is designed to streamline decision-making, improve global focus, and speed new ideas to the market.
REDWOOD CITY, Calif.
The four Labels will be organized as follows:
 
The four Labels will be supported by two new groups: Central Development Services and Global Publishing. Central Development Services, led by Executive Vice President John Schappert, will include leadership on technology, operations, EA's online platform, and the office of the Chief Creative Officer. EA Global Publishing will be responsible for strategic planning, field marketing, sales and distribution in Asia, Europe, Latin America and North America.
The new structure maintains worldwide support teams for Finance, IT, Legal and Human Resources.
"This transition will be implemented over the course of the coming months," said EA Chief Executive Officer John Riccitiello. "EA is privileged to have a deep bench of proven talent and our new structure encourages people to bring great ideas into the market more quickly. There will be more games and services for core consumers and new gamers and better focus on operational efficiency."
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA), headquartered in Redwood City, California, is the world's leading interactive entertainment software company. Founded in 1982, the company develops, publishes, and distributes interactive software worldwide for video game systems, personal computers, cellular handsets and the Internet. Electronic Arts markets its products under four brand names: EA SPORTS, EA, EA SPORTS BIG and POGO. In fiscal 2007, EA posted revenue of $3.09 billion and had 24 titles that sold more than one million copies. EA's homepage and online game site is
www.ea.com
. More information about EA's products and full text of press releases can be found on the Internet at
http://info.ea.com
.
EA, EA SPORTS, EA SPORTS BIG, POGO, Pogo.com, EA Mobile, The Sims, MySims, SimCity, Need for Speed, Medal of Honor, Spore, Burnout, Command & Conquer and Boogie, are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. John Madden, NFL, NBA, NHL, NASCAR, Tiger Woods, PGA TOUR and FIFA are trademarks or other intellectual property of their respective owners and used with permission. Simpsons TM & 2007 Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation. HARRY POTTER characters, names and related indicia are trademarks of and  Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. Harry Potter Publishing Rights  JKR. Wii and Nintendo DS are trademarks of Nintendo. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Some statements in the future tense contained in this release are forward-looking statements that are subject to change. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or actual future results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from its expectations are described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2007. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.


