FILE:EA/EA-8K-20070508161620.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On May 8, 2007, Electronic Arts Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 May 8, 2007  Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced preliminary financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2007.
REDWOOD CITY, CA
(comparisons are to the quarter ended March 31, 2006)
Fiscal Fourth Quarter Results
Net revenue for the fourth quarter was $613 million, down four percent as compared with $641 million for the prior year primarily due to the transition to next generation systems. Sales were driven by ,   and  .
Command & Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars
Need for Speed
Carbon, DEF JAM: ICON
The Sims
2 Seasons
Gross profit for the quarter was $378 million, down five percent year-over-year. Net loss for the quarter was $25 million as compared with a net loss of $16 million for the prior year. The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R) " at the beginning of its fiscal year resulting in an after-tax stock-based compensation charge of $24 million, or $0.08 per share, in the fourth quarter. Diluted loss per share was $0.08 as compared with $0.05 for the prior year.
Share-Based Payment"
Non-GAAP net income was $19 million as compared with $43 million a year ago. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.06 as compared with $0.14 for the prior year. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
Full Year Results
Net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 was $3.091 billion, up five percent as compared with $2.951 billion for the prior year. Seven titles sold more than three million copies: and
Madden NFL 07, Need for Speed Carbon, FIFA 07, The Sims 2 Pets, The Sims 2, Need for Speed Most Wanted
2006 FIFA World Cup.
Gross profit for the year was $1.879 billion, up six percent year-over-year. Net income for the year was $76 million as compared with $236 million for the prior year. The Company incurred an after-tax stock-based compensation charge of $107 million, or $0.34 per share, for the year. Diluted earnings per share were $0.24 as compared with $0.75 for the prior year.
Non-GAAP net income was $247 million as compared with $301 million a year ago. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.78 as compared with $0.96 for the prior year. (Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures and reconciliation information included in this release.)
Trailing-twelve-month operating cash flow was $397 million as compared with $596 million a year ago. The Company ended the quarter with cash, short-term investments and marketable equity securities of $2.976 billion.
"EA has a powerful set of franchises, strong brands and great talent," said John Riccitiello, Chief Executive Officer. "It is a great honor to rejoin this team and have the opportunity to build on its success."
 
"We have a strong lineup for the year ahead," said Warren Jenson, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer. "We expect to launch more than fifteen games based on wholly owned properties  including Medal of Honor Airborne, Army of Two, Boogie, MySims, Battlefield Bad Company*, SKATE and Need for Speed."
Highlights for the Year (comparisons are to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006)
 
Deferred Net Revenue Recognition For Certain Online-Enabled Packaged Goods
The Company reiterated that starting in fiscal year 2008, it will begin recognizing net revenue associated with certain online-enabled packaged goods games over the estimated hosting service period. As a result, the Company anticipates that a significant amount of net revenue that otherwise would have been recognized in fiscal 2008 will be recognized in fiscal 2009.
Business Outlook
The following forward-looking statements, as well as those made above, reflect expectations as of May 8, 2007. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, such as: consumer demand for next-generation consoles and the ability of the console manufacturers to produce an adequate supply of consoles to meet that demand; the popular appeal of EA's products; development delays on EA's products; changes in foreign exchange rates; the overall global economy; competition in the industry; EA's effective tax rate and other factors detailed in this release and in EA's annual and quarterly SEC filings.
Fiscal Year Expectations  Ending March 31, 2008
 
 
Fiscal First Quarter Expectations  Ending June 30, 2007
 
Conference Call
Electronic Arts will host a conference call today at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) to review its results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 and its outlook for the future. During the course of the call, Electronic Arts may also disclose material developments affecting its business and/or financial performance. Listeners may access the conference call live through the following dial-in number: (800) 946-0742, access code 220497, or via webcast: .
http://investor.ea.com
A dial-in replay of the conference call will be provided until May 15, 2007 at (719) 457-0820, access code 220497. A webcast archive of the conference call will be available for one year at .
http://investor.ea.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, Electronic Arts uses certain non-GAAP measures of financial performance. The presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with the Company's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures used by Electronic Arts include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) and historical and estimated non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share. These non-GAAP financial measures exclude the following items from the Company's consolidated statement of operations:
 
 
Electronic Arts may consider whether other significant non-recurring items that arise in the future should also be excluded in calculating the non-GAAP financial measures it uses.
Beginning with the release of its first quarter results for fiscal 2008, Electronic Arts intends, on a prospective basis, to reflect the change in its deferred net revenue related to certain online-enabled packaged goods games and digital content in its non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP net revenue.
Electronic Arts believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of the Company's core business, operating results or future outlook. Electronic Arts' management uses, and believes that investors benefit from referring to, these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the Company's operating results both as a consolidated entity and at the business unit level, as well as when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate comparisons of the Company's performance to prior periods.
In addition to the reasons stated above, which are generally applicable to each of the items Electronic Arts excludes from its non-GAAP financial measures, the Company believes it is appropriate to exclude certain items for the following reasons:
. When analyzing the operating performance of an acquired entity, Electronic Arts' management focuses on the total return provided by the investment (i.e., operating profit generated from the acquired entity as compared to the purchase price paid) without taking into consideration any allocations made for accounting purposes. Because the purchase price for an acquisition necessarily reflects the accounting value assigned to intangible assets (including acquired in-process technology and goodwill), when analyzing the operating performance of an acquisition in subsequent periods, the Company's management excludes the GAAP impact of acquired intangible assets to its financial results. Electronic Arts believes that such an approach is useful in understanding the long-term return provided by an acquisition and that investors benefit from a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the accounting expense associated with acquired intangible assets.
Amortization of Intangibles
In addition, in accordance with GAAP, Electronic Arts generally recognizes expenses for internally-developed intangible assets as they are incurred, notwithstanding the potential future benefit such assets may provide. Unlike internally-developed intangible assets, however, and also in accordance with GAAP, the Company generally capitalizes the cost of acquired intangible assets and recognizes that cost as an expense over the useful lives of the assets acquired (other than goodwill, which is not amortized, and acquired in-process technology, which is expensed immediately, as required under GAAP). As a result of their GAAP treatment, there is an inherent lack of comparability between the financial performance of internally-developed intangible assets and acquired intangible assets. Accordingly, Electronic Arts believes it is useful to provide, as a supplement to its GAAP operating results, a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles.
. Electronic Arts adopted SFAS 123(R), "" beginning in its fiscal year 2007. When evaluating the performance of its individual business units, the Company does not consider stock-based compensation charges. Likewise, the
Stock-Based Compensation
Share-Based Payment
Company's management teams exclude stock-based compensation expense from their short and long-term operating plans. In contrast, the Company's management teams are held accountable for cash-based compensation and such amounts are included in their operating plans. Further, when considering the impact of equity award grants, Electronic Arts places a greater emphasis on overall shareholder dilution rather than the accounting charges associated with such grants.
Video game platforms have historically had a life cycle of four to six years, which causes the video game software market to be cyclical. The Company's management analyzes its business and operating performance in the context of these business cycles, comparing Electronic Arts' performance at similar stages of different cycles. For comparability purposes, Electronic Arts believes it is useful to provide a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of its core business. In addition, given the Company's adoption of SFAS 123(R), "" beginning with its fiscal year ending March 31, 2007, Electronic Arts believes that a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes stock-based compensation will facilitate the comparison of its year-over-year results.
Share-Based Payment
Although Electronic Arts has engaged in various restructuring activities over the past several years, each has been a discrete, extraordinary event based on a unique set of business objectives. Each of these restructurings has been unlike its predecessors in terms of its operational implementation, business impact and scope. The Company does not engage in restructuring activities on a regular basis or in the ordinary course of business. As such, the Company believes it is appropriate to exclude restructuring charges from its non-GAAP financial measures.
Restructuring Charges.
Beginning in fiscal 2008, Electronic Arts will no longer be able to objectively determine the fair value of the online hosting services included in certain of its packaged goods games. As a result, the Company will recognize the revenue from the sale of these games over the estimated online service period. Although Electronic Arts will defer the recognition of a significant portion of its net revenue as a result of this change, there will be no adverse impact to its operating cash flow. Internally, Electronic Arts' management intends to reflect the change in its deferred net revenue related to packaged goods games and digital content in its non-GAAP financial measures when evaluating the Company's operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of its management team. The Company believes that reflecting the change in deferred net revenue in its operating results is important to facilitate an understanding of the cash characteristics of its business, as well as comparisons to prior periods during which the Company's accounting policies did not result in the deferral of significant amounts of net revenue related to online-enabled packaged goods.
Change in Deferred Net Revenue  Packaged Goods and Digital Content.
In the financial tables below, Electronic Arts has provided a reconciliation of the most comparable GAAP financial measure to each of the historical non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release.
Forward-Looking Statements
Some statements set forth in this release, including the estimates under the headings "Business Outlook" and "Deferred Revenue Recognition For Certain Online-Enabled Packaged Goods" contain forward-looking statements that are subject to change. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking
statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or actual future results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from its expectations include the following: the consumer demand for, and the availability of an adequate supply of next-generation hardware units (including the Xbox 360 video game and entertainment system, the PLAYSTATION3 computer entertainment system and the Wii); the Company's ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; consumer spending trends; the seasonal and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; timely development and release of Electronic Arts' products; competition in the interactive entertainment industry; the Company's ability to manage expenses during fiscal year 2008; the Company's ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in the Company's effective tax rates; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of the Company's products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of the Company's products; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the Company's ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties on favorable terms; and other factors described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2006. These forward-looking statements speak only as of May 8, 2007. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, including those made under the "Business Outlook" and "Deferred Revenue Recognition For Certain Online-Enabled Packaged Goods" headings. In addition, the financial results set forth in this release are estimates based on information currently available to Electronic Arts. While Electronic Arts believes these estimates are meaningful, they could differ from the actual amounts that Electronic Arts ultimately reports in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these estimates prior to filing its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007.
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA), headquartered in Redwood City, California, is the world's leading interactive entertainment software company. Founded in 1982, the company develops, publishes, and distributes interactive software worldwide for video game systems, personal computers, cellular handsets and the Internet. Electronic Arts markets its products under four brand names: EA SPORTS
TM
, EA
TM
, EA SPORTS BIG
TM
and POGO
TM
. In fiscal 2007, EA posted revenue of $3.09 billion and had 24 titles that sold more than one million copies. EA's homepage and online game site is . More information about EA's products and full text of press releases can be found on the Internet at .
www.ea.com
http://info.ea.com
* is a working title. All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Battlefield Bad Company
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (in millions, except per share data)
The following tables reconcile the Company's net income (loss) and diluted earnings (loss) per share as presented in its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") with its non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. The Company's non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share exclude acquired in-process technology, amortization of intangibles, certain litigation expenses, restructuring charges, and stock-based compensation. In addition, the Company's non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of certain one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
The following tables reconcile the Company's gross profit, operating income (loss), net income (loss) and diluted earnings (loss) per share as presented in its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") with its non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss), and non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share. The Company's non-GAAP gross profit excludes COGS amortization of intangibles and stock-based compensation. The Company's non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss), and non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share exclude acquired in-process technology, amortization of intangibles, certain litigation expenses, restructuring charges, and stock-based compensation. In addition, the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of certain one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
 
The following tables reconcile the Company's gross profit, operating income (loss), net income (loss) and diluted earnings (loss) per share as presented in its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") with its non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss), and non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share. The Company's non-GAAP gross profit excludes COGS amortization of intangibles and stock-based compensation. The Company's non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss), and non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share exclude acquired in-process technology, amortization of intangibles, certain litigation expenses, restructuring charges, and stock-based compensation. In addition, the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share exclude income tax adjustments consisting of the income tax expense associated with the foregoing excluded items and the impact of certain one-time income tax adjustments.
 
 
 
 
 
 


