FILE:EA/EA-8K-20081106160055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 5, 2008, Geraldine B. Laybourne, Founder and former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Oxygen Media, was appointed to the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Electronic Arts Inc. (the "Company") as an independent director. The authorized size of the Board has been increased from eight to nine directors. In connection with her appointment to the Board, Ms. Laybourne has also been appointed to the Compensation Committee of the Board, replacing Richard A. Simonson. Mr. Simonson will no longer serve on the Compensation Committee but will remain a member of the Audit Committee of the Board.
Ms. Laybourne shall receive an annual retainer as a non-employee director of $50,000 and an additional $7,500 per year for her service on the Compensation Committee. The Company's non-employee directors may elect to receive all or part of their cash compensation in the form of the Company's common stock. In addition, Ms. Laybourne has been granted an option grant to purchase 17,500 shares of the Company's common stock and 2,500 restricted stock units issued under the Company's 2000 Equity Incentive Plan. The exercise price of the stock options will be the closing price of the Company's common stock on November 5, 2008, the effective date of Ms. Laybourne's appointment. The stock options are exercisable as to 2% of the underlying shares on the original grant date, and the remaining will continue to vest in additional 2% increments on the first calendar day of each month thereafter so long as Ms. Laybourne continues as a director. The restricted stock units will vest in 25% increments annually over four years from the original grant date.
Ms. Laybourne has entered into the Company's standard form of Indemnity Agreement, which provides for indemnification of a director to the maximum extent allowed by Delaware law.
A press release announcing Ms. Laybourne's appointment to the Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Mariam Sughayer
Corporate Communications
650-628-7245
msughayer@ea.com
Electronic Arts (NASDAQ:ERTS), the world's leading interactive entertainment software company, today announced that Geraldine Laybourne was appointed to EA's Board of Directors on November 5, 2008.
REDWOOD CITY, Calif.  November 6, 2008.
Ms. Laybourne is the founder of Oxygen Media, a television network launched in 2000 targeted at younger women, where she served as chairman and chief executive officer until 2007. She also served as president of Disney/ABC Cable Networks where she played a key role in management of ABC's Saturday morning children's programming schedule. Prior to this, Ms. Laybourne served 16 years at Nickelodeon, managing the television network and establishing herself as a pioneer in creating innovative programming for children.
"Gerry has an impressive background leading teams to conceptualize and launch revolutionary new entertainment properties. Her experience with successful global media properties will be invaluable to EA's board as our company continues to create products for new audiences," said EA CEO John Riccitiello.
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA), headquartered in Redwood City, California, is the world's leading interactive entertainment software company. Founded in 1982, the Company develops, publishes, and distributes interactive software worldwide for video game systems, personal computers, cellular handsets and the Internet. Electronic Arts markets its products under four brand names: EA SPORTS
TM
, EA
TM
, EA SPORTS Freestyle
TM
and POGO
TM
. In fiscal 2008, EA posted GAAP net revenue of $3.67 billion and had 27 titles that sold more than one million copies. EA's homepage and online game site is www.ea.com. More information about EA's products and full text of press releases can be found on the Internet at .
http://info.ea.com
EA, EA SPORTS, EA SPORTS Freestyle and POGO are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


