FILE:EA/EA-8K-20080429161648.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 23, 2008, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Electronic Arts Inc. (the "Company") adopted the Electronic Arts Annual Bonus Plan (the ""), which amends and restates the Electronic Arts Discretionary Bonus Program, effective for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2009.
Plan
The material features of the Plan are summarized below. This summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
. The Plan is a cash bonus plan which is intended to attract, motivate and retain talent by providing eligible employees with incentive compensation based upon the achievement of selected performance goals.
Purpose
. Generally, regular status employees, including executive officers, of the Company (and its subsidiaries and affiliates) who do not perform product-development functions and who are chosen solely at the discretion of the Company are eligible to participate in the Plan. Any bonus payment provided for under the Plan is completely discretionary, and is not considered earned or accrued by a participant until it is actually paid. If an eligible employee's employment with the Company terminates for any reason prior to the date a bonus payment is made, he or she will not be eligible to receive any bonus payment.
Eligibility
. The Plan is administered by the Company's Compensation Committee, which has the authority, in its discretion, to make any and all decisions regarding the administration and interpretation of the Plan, determine eligibility for participation, establish bonus components and performance measures for such components, and determine the bonus payment amounts, if any, to be paid under the Plan. The Plan may be amended or terminated at any time. The Compensation Committee may delegate its authority to a Plan administrative committee or Company management; provided, however, that the Compensation Committee may not delegate authority to approve the payment of any bonuses under the Plan to individuals serving as "officers" of EA, as such term is used in Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Administration
. Each Plan participant is assigned an annual target bonus amount that is expressed as a percentage of his or her annual base salary. A participant's annual bonus target is then adjusted upward or downward based on the achievement of relevant performance measures, which include the participant's individual performance during the fiscal year, and one or more of the following: (i) the Company's fiscal year financial performance as compared to pre-determined performance targets; (ii) the participant's business unit's performance as compared to pre-determined targets; and (iii) such other business-related performance measures as the Company deems appropriate to accomplish a business purpose. The particular performance measures applicable to a participant, and the weight of each such performance measure as a percentage of the participant's annual bonus target, depend on the participant's job position within the Company and the amount of bonus-eligible time he or she worked during the applicable fiscal year.
Determination and Payment of Bonuses
The bonus amount payable to a participant under the Plan will be calculated after the end of the fiscal year and will be based on the actual level of achievement of each applicable performance measure. In the event that either the company or business unit performance measure falls (i) below an achievement level of 85%, then no bonus payout will be awarded with respect to such performance measure, except by separate approval by the Compensation Committee at a level set in its sole discretion, (ii) between an achievement level of 85% and 120%, then the bonus payment with respect to such performance measure will be calculated on the basis of the actual achievement level, or (iii) above an achievement level of 120%, then the bonus payment with respect to such performance measure will be calculated on the actual achievement level up to the first 120% and then on a two-to-one basis for each percentage point above 120%. In no event may bonus payments for the company or business unit performance measure exceed 200%. The individual performance component is funded each fiscal year at 100%, with the bonus payment adjusted up
or down based on Company discretion and the participant's level of achievement of his or her individual performance objectives. Bonus payments for the individual component typically will not exceed 200%, but may be adjusted up to 300% in cases of extraordinary job performance and with CEO approval.
For fiscal year 2009, actual bonus payouts will be determined based on (i) the Company's performance as a whole, (ii) for some groups, a participant's business unit performance, and (iii) the participant's individual performance. The Company-specific performance measure will be determined based on an adjusted measure of non-GAAP net income performance and revenue performance.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Purpose of the Plan
 
 
 
 
Effective Date
The Electronic Arts Annual Bonus Plan ("Plan") is effective for each fiscal year beginning on or around April 1 and ending on or around March 31 of the following year (actual dates are determined by EA's fiscal calendar). The Plan shall remain in effect until otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee of EA's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee").
Eligibility
This Plan applies solely to regular employees of EA and its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively referred to in this Document as "EA" or the "Company") whom EA, in its sole discretion, determines meet the eligibility requirements set forth below ("").
Participant(s)
To be eligible to receive a discretionary bonus award under this Plan, a Participant must satisfy each of the following eligibility conditions (an ""):
Eligible Position
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bonus Award Calculations
Each Participant has an annual target bonus that is expressed as a percent of their annual base salary. A Participant's annual target bonus represents the bonus award a Participant could potentially receive, based on the criteria and formulas set forth below, if each bonus component is paid out at 100% and the Participant has an Individual Achievement Factor of 1.00 and a pro-ration factor of 1.00.
 
Bonus Components and Weightings
There are three basic bonus components that may be used to calculate bonus awards under the Plan:
 
 
 
The specific bonus components used and the weight of each bonus component as a percentage of a Participant's bonus award will depend upon the Participant's position within the Company and bonus eligible time worked during the fiscal year ("pro-ration"). There are two primary plan types representing different functions in the total organization:
 
 
For purposes of calculating bonuses under this plan the term "Business Unit" shall mean a designated group of individuals or divisions connected by a common business purpose, including but not limited to, geographic region, function, product line, profit responsibility or any other grouping as may be determined by EA, in its sole discretion.
 
 
EA retains the discretion to develop and apply, at any time, other bonus plans, subplans or formulas, bonus components and bonus component weightings as needed to accomplish a business purpose.
Bonus Component Performance Measures:
Each bonus component will be evaluated independently based on the actual attainment of each weighted Performance Measure established for that bonus component for the fiscal year.
For purposes of this Plan the term "Performance Measure" shall mean the target measure of financial or other performance applicable to a bonus component as determined by EA, in its sole discretion. Performance Measures may include any concept(s) or measure(s) of performance as specified by EA, including but not limited to quantitative measures (for example: net income, revenue, margin, and profit before tax or operating profit), and qualitative measures (for example: product reviews or performance ratings). Attainment of qualitative measures will be assessed at the sole discretion of the Company.
 
The Compensation Committee of EA's Board of Directors, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall establish the Performance Measures to be used for calculating bonus awards under the "Company Performance" component, and approve the payment of any bonuses under the Plan to senior executives of the Company, which for purposes of this Plan shall include: (i) individuals serving as "officers" of EA, as such term is used in section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and (ii) other key executives as may be determined by the CEO and the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee may delegate to EA management the authority to establish Performance Measures for all other executives and non-executive employees for any fiscal year.
All bonus component Performance Measure(s) to be used in determining bonus awards under the Plan and the weight to be given to each Performance Measure will be determined on or before the last day of the first quarter of each fiscal year.
To the extent permitted by applicable law, rules and regulations, the Compensation Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion, at any time adjust upward or downward any Performance Measures established for calculating bonuses under the Plan or may delegate the authority to make such adjustments to EA management. All relevant figures shall be rounded to the nearest hundredth (.01).
Bonus Payments
The actual payout for each bonus component is determined independently based on fiscal year results according to the following guidelines:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Payment Timing
The calculation of bonus awards under this Plan will occur after the completion of the applicable fiscal year. Awards are typically approved in May and payments are made as soon as administratively practical following approval.
Pro-Ration of Bonuses
To the extent permitted by applicable law, rules and regulations, EA reserves the right to pro-rate the bonus award of any Participant who was not in an Eligible Position for the entire fiscal year, or was not actively working full-time throughout the fiscal year. Plan bonus awards, if any, will generally be pro-rated based on the number of full months (rounded to the nearest full month) that a Participant is working in an Eligible Position, however, EA reserves the right to, in its sole discretion, pro-rate bonuses based on hours of service, days or on any other basis. For example, the pro-ration factor for a Participant who is eligible to participate in the Plan for the entire fiscal year will be 1.00; for a Participant who is eligible to participate in the Plan for one-half of the Performance Period, the pro-ration factor will be .50. Participants in the following situations may have a pro-ration factor less than 1.00: (a) new hires and individuals who transfer into an Eligible Position during the fiscal year; (b) individuals who transfer between an Eligible Position and a non-Eligible position within EA; (c) Participants who work less than the applicable full-time standard work week; and (d) Participants who take a leave of absence, as described more fully below.
Participants who transfer between Eligible Positions in different Business Units during the fiscal year will have a pro-ration factor determined on the basis of the actual time applied to each Business Unit.
Participants who are on sabbatical leave or a leave of absence that is protected by statute or other applicable law during the fiscal year shall not have their bonus award, if any, reduced by reason of such leave, provided the Participant's actual leave of absence does not exceed the maximum leave of absence period protected by local law. By way of example, legally protected leaves of absence may include the period of leave provided by local law for medical leave, maternity leave, or military leave.
To the extent permitted by applicable law, rules and regulations, Participants who take unpaid days off or leaves of absence that are not protected by statute or other applicable law will have their bonus awards, if any, pro-rated based on the number of full months that such Participant is actively working in an Eligible Position.
General Guidelines, Terms and Conditions of the Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


