FILE:EA/EA-8K-20081219093448.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 19, 2008, Electronic Arts Inc. ("EA") issued a press release to provide details of an expansion to the cost-saving plan previously announced on October 30, 2008. Under the plan, which was approved by its Board of Directors on December 18, 2008, EA anticipates (a) closing or consolidating certain facilities, including EA's leased studio space in downtown Vancouver, Canada, and (b) reducing its workforce by approximately 1,000 employees (including the workforce reductions EA previously announced on October 30, 2008).
In connection with the plan, EA anticipates incurring between approximately $55 million and $65 million in total costs, substantially all of which will result in cash expenditures. EA anticipates incurring between approximately $30 million and $40 million of these charges during its fiscal year ending March 31, 2009. EA estimates these costs will consist primarily of severance and other employee-related costs (approximately $30 million to $35 million), charges related to facility closures (approximately $23 million to $28 million), and other asset impairment charges (approximately $2 million).
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The foregoing discussion of EA's cost-saving plan contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, including statements about EA's estimates and expectations regarding future restructuring charges, operating expenses and other costs are forward- looking. EA uses words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "expect", "intend" (and the negative of any of these terms), "future" and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risks and reflect management's current estimates and expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from the expectations set forth in these forward-looking statements. EA will not necessarily update these forward-looking statements if they later turn out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may affect EA's future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed above, under the heading "Risk Factors" in EA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2008, and in other documents EA has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
REDWOOD CITY, CA  December 19, 2008  Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ:ERTS) today announced further details on a restructuring plan which will include consolidating facilities and reducing the work force.
EA expects the restructuring plan will result in annual cost savings of approximately $120 million and restructuring charges of approximately $55-65 million over the next several quarters.
The plan is intended to reduce EA's worldwide work force by approximately 10 percent or 1,000 people. The majority of these actions will be completed by March 31, 2009. This represents a four percent increase from the six percent reduction EA announced on October 30, 2008.
The restructuring also calls for consolidation or closure of at least nine studio and publishing locations. Among the facilities to be consolidated is the Black Box Studio facility in Vancouver, British Columbia. The Black Box development teams and associated game franchises will move to the nearby EA studio location in Burnaby, British Columbia.
EA is implementing a plan to narrow its product portfolio to focus on hit games with higher margin opportunities. The company remains committed to taking creative risks, investing in new games, leading the industry in the growing mobile and online businesses, and delivering high-quality games to consumers.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements
Some statements set forth in this press release, including Electronic Arts' estimates relating to the annual savings it will realize and the expenses and charges it will incur in connection with the restructuring plan, are forward-looking statements and are subject to change. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "expect" or "it is likely" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are preliminary estimates and
expectations based on current information and are subject to business and economic risks that could cause actual future results to differ materially from the Company's expectations set forth above. Some of the factors which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from its expectations include the following: the Company's ability to successfully implement its cost reduction plans; sales of the Company's titles during the remainder of the quarter and fiscal year; the general health of the U.S. and global economy and the related impact on discretionary consumer spending; consumer spending trends; the Company's ability to manage expenses during the remainder of the quarter, fiscal year and beyond; competition in the interactive entertainment industry; the effectiveness of the Company's sales and marketing programs; timely development and release of Electronic Arts' products; the consumer demand for, and the availability of an adequate supply of console hardware units (including the Xbox 360 video game and entertainment system, the PLAYSTATION3 computer entertainment system and the Wii); consumer demand for software for the PlayStation 2; the Company's ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms; the financial impact of potential future acquisitions by EA; the Company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions; consumer spending trends; the seasonal and cyclical nature of the interactive game segment; the Company's ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in the Company's effective tax rates; the performance of strategic investments; adoption of new accounting regulations and standards; potential regulation of the Company's products in key territories; developments in the law regarding protection of the Company's products; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the Company's ability to secure licenses to valuable entertainment properties on favorable terms; and other factors described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2008 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. These forward-looking statements speak only as of December 19, 2008. Electronic Arts disclaims any obligation, and does not intend to, update these forward-looking statements.
Contact:
 


