FILE:EA/EA-8K-20080327164553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appointment of Executive Officer
On March 27, 2008, Electronic Arts Inc. ("EA") issued a press release in which it announced that it had entered into a letter of employment with Eric F. Brown (the "Offer Letter") under which EA agreed to appoint Mr. Brown as Chief Financial Officer.
Mr. Brown, age 42, served as Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of McAfee, Inc., a security technology company from March 2006 until March 2008. From January 2005 until March 2006, Mr. Brown was McAfee's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Brown served as President and Chief Financial Officer of MicroStrategy Incorporated, a business intelligence software provider, from November 2000 until December 2004, and as its Chief Financial Officer from August 2000 until November 2000. Mr. Brown joined MicroStrategy as Chief Financial Officer of its Strategy.com subsidiary in February 2000. From October 1998 until February 2000, Mr. Brown served as Chief Financial Officer and then Chief Operating Officer of EA's studio organization in Redwood City, CA. Prior to that time, Mr. Brown was co-founder and Chief Financial Officer of DataSage, Inc., a vendor of e-business personalization software, from 1995 until October 1998. Mr. Brown also held several senior financial positions with Grand Metropolitan from 1990 until 1995. Mr. Brown received an MBA from the Sloan School of Management of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a BS in Chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Compensatory Arrangements with Mr. Brown
A copy of the Offer Letter is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The following summary of the Offer Letter does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the attached agreement.
The material terms of the Offer Letter are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with EA's standard equity grant policies, Mr. Brown's stock option and restricted stock units will be granted on the first regularly scheduled grant date on or after he commences employment with EA (, the 16
i.e.
th
of the month on or following the date on which he commences employment with EA, or the first NASDAQ trading day thereafter).
Mr. Brown will participate in the compensation and benefit programs generally available to EA's executive officers.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
March 19, 2008
Dear Eric:
Congratulations! Please accept our offer to become part of EA's rich game making history and future.
I am pleased to offer you a regular full-time position with Electronic Arts as Chief Financial Officer commencing on a mutually agreed upon start date at a base salary of $50,000.00 per month, or $600,000.00 annualized, minus applicable deductions. You will be reporting to me, John Riccitiello.
For your information, I have enclosed several documents that will provide an introduction to life at EA, including an overview of our benefits programs and EA's Global Code of Conduct. Other EA policies and procedures are on EA's intranet and will be reviewed with you at orientation.
You will also be eligible to participate in our discretionary bonus program. This discretionary bonus is typically determined at the end of our fiscal year (March) and is prorated for your months of employment. You need to be employed by EA by January 15th to be eligible for a bonus in this fiscal year. Your discretionary bonus target will be 75% of your salary. To receive payment of your bonus you must be employed by Electronic Arts at the time any bonuses are paid. In addition, EA reviews performance and compensation levels annually, and it currently makes merit adjustments in June of each year. To be eligible for a merit increase at next June's review, you must commence employment by January 15th of the same calendar year.
I will recommend to the Compensation Committee that you be granted a non-qualified stock option to purchase 250,000 shares of Electronic Arts common stock in accordance with our 2000 Equity Incentive Plan. The Committee will grant and price the stock option on the next regularly scheduled grant date after you commence employment (, the 16
i.e.
th
of the month following your commencement of employment, or the first NASDAQ trading day thereafter). The options shall vest and become exercisable as to 24% of the shares on the first day of the calendar month that includes the one-year anniversary of the grant date, and will then vest and become exercisable as to an additional 2% of the shares on the first calendar day of each month thereafter for 38 months. You will receive more details regarding this stock option from Stock Administration after the grant date.
I will recommend to the Compensation Committee that you be granted a one-time Ownership Award in the form of 83,300 restricted stock units (RSUs) in accordance with our 2000 Equity Incentive Plan. The Committee will grant the RSUs on the next regularly scheduled grant date after you commence employment (, the 16
i.e.
th
of the month following your commencement of employment, or the first NASDAQ trading day thereafter). This Award will vest in 25% increments annually on each of the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the original grant date. You will receive more details regarding this Award from Stock Administration after the grant date.
You are being provided Tier 5 executive relocation assistance, as described in the attached relocation summary document. Per EA policy, if you voluntarily leave your employment with EA or are terminated for any reason other than a reduction in force that eliminates your job position (a) prior to the one year anniversary of the date of your hire, you agree to pay EA an amount equal to all relocation and gross up expenses incurred by EA through your date of termination; or (b) on or after the one year anniversary of the date of your hire and prior to the second anniversary of the date of your hire, you agree to pay EA an amount equal to a pro-rata portion (24 minus number of full months of employment / 24 months) of all relocation and gross up expenses incurred by EA through your date of termination. Payment must be made to EA upon your last day of employment. Once you accept this offer of employment with EA, please contact EA's Global Mobility Group, at 650-628-9100, to start the process.
Lastly, EA is providing you a one-time bonus of $100,000.00 (minus applicable taxes) at the time of hire, which is earned at the completion of your first year of employment but you will receive it within the first 30 days of
your employment. If you voluntarily leave your employment before the completion of one year, you agree to repay to EA the full net amount of the bonus.
If you have any questions about this offer or about your eligibility to participate in or to be covered by any of the described benefits, please call me.
In the course of your work, you will have access to proprietary materials and concepts. Our offer is contingent on your signing Electronic Arts' New Hire/ Proprietary Information Agreement. Two copies are enclosed for signature (please keep one for your own records).
This offer letter contains the entire understanding between you and Electronic Arts as to the terms of your offer of employment and specifically supersedes all previous discussions you may have had with anyone at Electronic Arts regarding those terms.
Should you accept this offer, please plan on attending New Hire Orientation to be held on your first Monday at 9:00 a.m. Please complete and bring the forms in the attached package.
This offer of employment is made contingent upon your providing Electronic Arts with proof that you have the legal right to work in the United States. This will be handled as part of your orientation process.
In addition, EA will conduct a background check pursuant to a written notice you will receive under separate cover, and this offer of employment is contingent upon the results of such check being acceptable to EA.
This offer of employment is valid through March 28, 2008, and if not accepted by then, we will assume that you have declined the offer. If you accept this offer, please sign below and return both pages of the original offer letter to Gabrielle Toledano in the enclosed envelope, and we can begin your orientation to EA. Please keep a copy for yourself.
Please join our team and help us be the place where GREAT people create and deliver GREAT games.
If you have any questions regarding this offer, please feel free to contact me.
 
Enclosures
 
Relocation benefits, including tax assistance, as follows:
 
Relocation benefits, including tax assistance, as follows:
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Electronic Arts Inc. ("EA") (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced the appointment of Eric Brown as Chief Financial Officer and EVP. A former EA executive, Mr. Brown, 42, joins the company from McAfee Inc. where he served as Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Brown will start his new role on April 14.
REDWOOD CITY, Calif., March 27, 2008
"Eric's strong financial background, broad international experience and industry knowledge makes him a perfect fit for EA," said John Riccitiello, Chief Executive Officer. "Eric is a highly-regarded CFO, and we are looking forward to having him join our team."
"I am thrilled to return to EA where I can bring together my professional experience with my passion for the industry," said Mr. Brown. "It's a great opportunity to join EA at this pivotal time and support the company's growth initiatives in the years ahead."
Prior to McAfee, Mr. Brown served as President and Chief Financial Officer of MicroStrategy. Prior to that, he was the Chief Operating Officer of EA's Redwood Shores Studio. Earlier in his career, he held management positions at DataSage Inc. and the Haagen-Dazs Company, where he worked for several years in Europe and Asia.
For additional information, please contact:
 
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA), headquartered in Redwood City, California, is the world's leading interactive entertainment software company. Founded in 1982, the company develops, publishes, and distributes interactive software worldwide for video game systems, personal computers, cellular handsets and the Internet. Electronic Arts markets its products under four brand names: EA SPORTS, EA, EA SPORTS BIG and POGO. In fiscal 2007, EA posted revenue of $3.09 billion and had 24 titles that sold more than one million copies. EA's homepage and online game site is www.ea.com. More information about EA's products and full text of press releases can be found on the Internet at .
http://info.ea.com
EA, EA SPORTS, EA SPORTS BIG and POGO are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries.


