FILE:EA/EA-8K-20090618162445.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Departure of Executive Officer
On June 18, 2009, Electronic Arts Inc. ("" or the "") issued a press release in which it announced that John Pleasants, EA's Chief Operating Officer and President, Global Publishing, will be leaving the Company. Mr. Pleasants' last day in his role will be June 18, 2009.
EA
Company
Appointment of Executive Officer
EA also announced that it has entered into a letter of employment with John Schappert (the "") under which EA agreed to appoint Mr. Schappert as Chief Operating Officer with responsibility over EA's Global Publishing Organization, Online Platform Group, EA Interactive and Central Development Services, among other areas of the Company. Prior to re-joining EA, Mr. Schappert, age 38, served as Corporate Vice President, with responsibility over Microsoft Game Studios and Xbox LIVE in Microsoft Corporation's Interactive Entertainment Business, where he worked from August 2007 until June 2009. Before joining Microsoft, Mr. Schappert served as Chief Operating Officer of Worldwide Studios at EA and Executive Vice President of EA's Online Platform and Central Development Services Group. Mr. Schappert held various positions at EA since joining the Company in 1998, when Tiburon Entertainment, a company he founded, was acquired by EA.
Offer Letter
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Compensatory Arrangements with Mr. Schappert
A copy of the Offer Letter is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The following summary of the Offer Letter does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the attached agreement.
The material terms of the Offer Letter are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with EA's standard equity grant policies, Mr. Schappert's stock option and restricted stock units are scheduled to be granted on July 16, 2009.
Mr. Schappert will participate in the compensation and benefit programs generally available to EA's executive officers.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
June 15, 2009
John Schappert
Dear John:
Congratulations! Please accept our offer to become part of EA's rich game making history and future.
I am pleased to offer you a regular full-time position with Electronic Arts as Chief Operating Officer commencing on a mutually agreed upon start date at a base salary of $50,000.00 per month, or $600,000.00 annualized, minus applicable deductions. You will be reporting to me, John Riccitiello.
For your information, I have enclosed several documents that will provide an introduction to life at EA, including an overview of our benefits programs and EA's Global Code of Conduct. Other EA policies and procedures are on EA's intranet and will be reviewed with you at orientation.
You will also be eligible to participate in our discretionary bonus program. This discretionary bonus is typically determined at the end of our fiscal year (March) and is prorated for your months of employment. You need to be employed by EA by January 15th to be eligible for a bonus in this fiscal year. Your discretionary bonus target will be 75% of your salary. To receive payment of your bonus you must be employed by Electronic Arts at the time any bonuses are paid. In addition, EA reviews performance and compensation levels annually, and it currently makes merit adjustments in June of each year. To be eligible for a merit increase at next June's review, you must commence employment by January 15th of the same calendar year.
I will recommend to the Compensation Committee that you be granted a non-qualified stock option to purchase 500,000 shares of Electronic Arts common stock in accordance with our 2000 Equity Incentive Plan. The Committee will grant and price the stock option on the next regularly scheduled grant date after you commence employment (, the 16
i.e.
th
of the month following your commencement of employment, or the first NASDAQ trading day thereafter). The options shall vest and become exercisable as to 24% of the shares on the first day of the calendar month that includes the one-year anniversary of the grant date, and will then vest and become exercisable as to an additional 2% of the shares on the first calendar day of each month thereafter for 38 months. You will receive more details regarding this stock option from Stock Administration after the grant date.
I will recommend to the Compensation Committee that you be granted a one-time Ownership Award in the form of 75,000 restricted stock units (RSUs) in accordance with our 2000 Equity Incentive Plan. The Committee will grant the RSUs on the next regularly scheduled grant date after you commence employment (, the 16
i.e.
th
of the month following your commencement of employment, or the first NASDAQ trading day thereafter). This Award will vest in 25% increments annually on each of the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the original grant date. You will receive more details regarding this Award from Stock Administration after the grant date.
I will also recommend to the Compensation Committee that you be granted 125,000 Performance Based Restricted Stock Units (PRSUs) which are dependent upon hitting specific performance metrics. You will receive more details regarding this award upon hire.
You are being provided Tier 5 executive relocation assistance, as described in the attached relocation summary document. In addition, EA/AIRes will provide you with Guaranteed Home Buy Out and Loss On Sale on your Seattle home as defined in the attached document. Per EA policy, if you voluntarily leave your employment with EA or are terminated for any reason other than a reduction in force that eliminates your job position (a) prior to the one year anniversary of the date of your hire, you agree to pay EA an amount equal to all relocation and gross up expenses incurred by EA through your date of termination; or (b) on or after the one year anniversary of the date of your hire and prior to the second anniversary of the date of your hire, you agree to pay EA an amount equal to a pro-rata portion (24 minus number of full months of employment / 24 months) of all relocation and gross up expenses incurred by EA through your date of termination. Payment must be made to EA upon your last day of employment. Once you accept this offer of employment with EA, please contact EA's Global Mobility Group, at 650-628-9100, to start the process.
John Schappert
June 15, 2009
Page 2
Lastly, EA is providing you a one-time sign-on bonus of $1,000,000.00 (minus applicable taxes) in lieu of forgone equity and bonus at the time of hire, which is earned at the completion of your first year of employment but you will receive it within the first 30 days of your employment. If you voluntarily leave your employment before the completion of one year, you agree to repay to EA the full net amount of the bonus.
If you have any questions about this offer or about your eligibility to participate in or to be covered by any of the described benefits, please call me.
In the course of your work, you will have access to proprietary materials and concepts. Our offer is contingent on your signing Electronic Arts' New Hire/ Proprietary Information Agreement. Two copies are enclosed for signature (please keep one for your own records).
This offer letter contains the entire understanding between you and Electronic Arts as to the terms of your offer of employment and specifically supersedes all previous discussions you may have had with anyone at Electronic Arts regarding those terms.
Should you accept this offer, please plan on attending New Hire Orientation to be held on your first Monday at 9:00 a.m. Please complete and bring the forms in the attached package.
This offer of employment is made contingent upon your providing Electronic Arts with proof that you have the legal right to work in the United States. This will be handled as part of your orientation process.
In addition, EA will conduct a background check pursuant to a written notice you will receive under separate cover, and this offer of employment is contingent upon the results of such check being acceptable to EA.
This offer of employment is valid through June 19, 2009 and if not accepted by then, we will assume that you have declined the offer. If you accept this offer, please sign below and return both pages of the original offer letter to Cindy Nicola, in Talent Acquisition, in the enclosed envelope, and we can begin your orientation to EA. Please keep a copy for yourself.
Please join our team and help us be the place where GREAT people create and deliver GREAT games.
If you have any questions regarding this offer, please feel free to contact me.
Sincerely,
 
Anticipated Start Date: July 14, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced that John Schappert has been appointed Chief Operating Officer, responsible for worldwide publishing, the Online Platform Group, EA Interactive, Central Development Services and other divisions of the company. Schappert, who joined the industry in 1991 as a software engineer on several EA titles and went on to lead many of the company's biggest franchises, left EA in 2007 to become Corporate Vice President of the Microsoft Interactive Entertainment Business with responsibility for Microsoft Game Studios and Xbox LIVE. He is scheduled to return to EA on July 14.
REDWOOD CITY, Calif.  June 18, 2009
John Pleasants, who has been in this role, will be leaving the company.
"We are thrilled to welcome John Schappert back to EA," said EA Chief Executive Officer John Riccitiello. "He has a great track record as a leader and innovator in our industry. His years of experience with EA and in Microsoft's Xbox business, provide him great insight into recognizing what consumers want."
"After nearly two decades working in or around this company, I've got EA in my blood," said John Schappert. "This is a team that is intensely focused on quality and innovation. I'm looking forward to rejoining EA as Chief Operating Officer and helping grow the business on new platforms and in new markets."
John Schappert has 17 years of experience building successful teams and profitable businesses in the game industry. After working as a game software engineer and project leader, he founded Tiburon Entertainment in 1994, the studio behind EA's and games. Tiburon was acquired by EA in 1998. In 2002, he moved to EA's Burnaby Studio in British Columbia and was promoted to Senior Vice President and Group General Manager. In this role, he oversaw production of blockbuster franchises such as and He was promoted again to Chief Operating Officer for EA's Worldwide Studios and, subsequently to Executive Vice President with oversight of EA's Online Platform and Central Development Services Group.
Madden NFL, NCAA Football
Tiger Woods
FIFA Soccer, NHL hockey,
Need For Speed.
He joined Microsoft in 2007 to create the LIVE Software Division, the online services group for Xbox. His responsibilities were expanded to include oversight for the Microsoft Game Studios and Xbox LIVE. This role included oversight of some of the industry's largest franchises, including and John and his team launched the New Xbox Experience which brought new functionality to Xbox LIVE and helped grow the Xbox Live business from 6 million to 20 million members.
Halo, Gears of War
Forza Motorsport.
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA), headquartered in Redwood City, California, is a leading global interactive entertainment software company. Founded in 1982, the Company develops, publishes, and distributes interactive software worldwide for video game systems, personal computers, wireless devices and the Internet. Electronic Arts markets its products under four brand names: EA SPORTS
TM
, EA
TM
, EA Mobile
TM
and POGO
TM
. In fiscal 2009, EA posted GAAP net revenue of $4.2 billion and had 31 titles that sold more than one million copies. EA's homepage and online game site is . More information about EA's products and full text of press releases can be found on the Internet at .
www.ea.com
http://info.ea.com
EA, EA SPORTS, EA Mobile, Pogo and Need for Speed are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Xbox and Xbox LIVE are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies. John Madden, NFL, Tiger Woods, NCAA and FIFA are trademarks or other intellectual property of their owners and used with permission. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


