FILE:EA/EA-8K-20090729180925.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Electronic Arts Inc. ("EA") held on July 29, 2009, EA's stockholders approved amendments to EA's 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Equity Plan") to (a) increase the number of shares authorized under the Equity Plan by 20,800,000 shares, and (b) replace the 1.82 multiple that is currently used to reduce the number of shares remaining available for issuance under the Equity Plan upon issuance of restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards with 1.43, so that each share of restricted stock or restricted stock unit awards granted after July 29, 2009 will reduce the number of shares remaining available for issuance by 1.43 shares.
A summary of the Equity Plan is included with EA's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 12, 2009 (the "Definitive Proxy Statement") as Appendix A. The summary of the Equity Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified by and subject to the full text of the Equity Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
EA's stockholders also approved an amendment to EA's 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Purchase Plan") to increase by 3,000,000 the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Purchase Plan.
A summary of the Purchase Plan is included with EA's Definitive Proxy Statement as Appendix B. The summary of the Purchase Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified by and subject to the full text of the Purchase Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of EA, the stockholders also elected Leonard S. Coleman, Jeffrey T. Huber, Gary M. Kusin, Geraldine B. Laybourne, Gregory B. Maffei, Vivek Paul, Lawrence F. Probst III, John S. Riccitiello, Richard A. Simonson and Linda J. Srere to EA's Board of Directors to hold office for a one-year term. The stockholders also approved EA's Employee Stock Option Exchange Program and ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as EA's independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2010.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
. The purpose of this Plan is to provide incentives to attract retain and motivate eligible persons whose present and potential contributions are important to the success of the Company, its Parent and Subsidiaries by offering them an opportunity to participate in the Company's future performance through awards of Options, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, and Stock Appreciation Rights. Capitalized terms not defined in the text are defined in Section 24.
1.
PURPOSE
.
2.
SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN
2.1 . Subject to Sections 2.2, 2.3 and 19, the aggregate number of Shares that have been reserved pursuant to this Plan is 99,385,000 Shares. Shares that are: (a) subject to issuance upon exercise of an Award but cease to be subject to such Award for any reason other than exercise of such Award; (b) subject to an Award granted hereunder but are forfeited; or (c) subject to an Award that otherwise terminates or is settled without Shares being issued shall revert to and again become available for issuance under the Plan in the same amount as such Shares were counted against the number of Shares reserved pursuant to Section 2.2. The following Shares shall not again become available for issuance under the Plan: (x) Shares that are not issued or delivered as a result of the net settlement of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right; (y) Shares that are used to pay the exercise price or withholding taxes related to an Award; or (z) Shares that are repurchased by the Company with the proceeds of an Option exercise. At all times the Company shall reserve and keep available a sufficient number of Shares as shall be required to satisfy the requirements of all outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted under this Plan and all other outstanding but unvested Awards granted under this Plan.
Number of Shares Available for Awards
2.2 . Shares covered by an award shall be counted as used as of the Grant Date. Any Shares that are subject to Awards of Options or SARs, granted on or after July 31, 2008, shall be counted against the aggregate number of Shares reserved as set forth in Section 2.1 as one (1) Share for every one (1) Share subject to an Award of Options or SARs. Any Shares that are subject to Awards other than Options or SARs, granted (a) on or after July 31, 2008 but prior to July 29, 2009, shall be counted against the number of Shares available for grant (as set forth in Section 2.1) as 1.82 Shares for every one (1) Share granted and (b) on or after July 29, 2009, shall be counted against the number of Shares available for grant (as set forth in Section 2.1) as 1.43 Shares for every one (1) Share granted.
Share Usage
2.3 . In the event that the number of outstanding shares is changed by a stock dividend, recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, subdivision, combination, reclassification or similar change in the capital structure of the Company without consideration, then (a) the number of Shares reserved for issuance under this Plan, (b) the Exercise Prices of and number of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, and (c) the number of Shares associated with other outstanding Awards, will be proportionately adjusted, subject to any required action by the Board or the stockholders of the Company and compliance with applicable securities laws; that fractions of a Share will not be issued but will either be replaced by a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value of such fraction of a Share or will be rounded up to the nearest whole Share, as determined by the Committee.
Adjustment of Shares
provided, however,
. ISOs (as defined in Section 5 below) may be granted only to employees (including officers and directors who are also employees) of the Company or of a Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. All other Awards may be granted to employees and directors of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. No person will be eligible to receive Awards covering more than 1,400,000 Shares in any calendar year under this Plan, of which no more than 400,000 Shares shall be covered by Awards of
3.
ELIGIBILITY
 
Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, other than new employees of the Company or of a Parent or Subsidiary of the Company (including new employees who are also officers and directors of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company), who are eligible to receive Awards covering up to a maximum of 2,800,000 Shares in the calendar year in which they commence their employment, of which no more than 800,000 Shares shall be covered by Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units. For purposes of these limits, each Restricted Stock Unit settled in Shares (but not those settled in cash), shall be deemed to cover one Share. A person may be granted more than one Award under this Plan.
.
4.
ADMINISTRATION
4.1 . This Plan will be administered by the Committee or by the Board acting as the Committee. Except for automatic grants to Outside Directors pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and subject to the general purposes, terms and conditions of this Plan, and to the direction of the Board, the Committee will have full power to implement and carry out this Plan. Except for automatic grants to Outside Directors pursuant to Section 10 hereof, the Committee will have the authority to:
Committee Authority
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2 . Except for automatic grants to Outside Directors pursuant to Section 10 hereof, any determination made by the Committee with respect to any Award will be made in its sole discretion at the time of grant of the Award or, unless in contravention of any express term of this Plan or Award, at any later time, and such determination will be final and binding on the Company and on all persons having an interest in any Award under this Plan. The Committee may delegate to one or more officers of the Company the authority to (i) construe and interpret this Plan, any Award Agreement and any other agreement or document executed pursuant to this Plan, and (ii) grant an Award under this Plan to Participants who are not Insiders of the Company.
Committee Discretion
 
4.3 . To the extent that Awards are granted hereunder as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Plan shall be administered by a committee, which may be the Committee, of two or more "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. For purposes of qualifying grants of Awards as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the committee, in its discretion, may set restrictions based upon the achievement of performance goals. The performance goals shall be set by the committee on or before the latest date permissible to enable the Awards to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. In granting Awards that are intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, the committee shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be necessary or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Awards under Section 162(m) of the Code (e.g., in determining the performance goals).
Section 162(m)
. The Committee may grant Options to eligible persons and will determine whether such Options will be Incentive Stock Options within the meaning of the Code ("") or Nonqualified Stock Options (""), the number of Shares subject to the Option, the Exercise Price of the Option, the period during which the Option may be exercised, and all other terms and conditions of the Option, subject to the following:
5.
OPTIONS
ISO
NQSOs
5.1 . Each Option granted under this Plan will be evidenced by an Award Agreement which will expressly identify the Option as an ISO or an NQSO (""), and, except as otherwise required by the terms of Section 10 hereof, will be in such form and contain such provisions (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the Committee may from time to time approve, and which will comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan.
Form of Option Grant
Stock Option Agreement
5.2 . The date of grant of an Option will be the date on which the Committee makes the determination to grant such Option, unless otherwise specified by the Committee. The Stock Option Agreement and a copy of this Plan will be delivered to the Participant within a reasonable time after the granting of the Option.
Date of Grant
5.3 .
Exercise Period; Performance Goals
(a) Options may be exercisable within the times or upon the events determined by the Committee as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement governing such Option; that no Option will be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date the Option is granted; and that no ISO granted to a person who directly or by attribution owns more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company ("") will be exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years from the date the ISO is granted. The Committee also may provide for Options to become exercisable at one time or from time to time, periodically or otherwise, in such number of Shares or percentage of Shares as the Committee determines.
provided, however,
provided, further,
Ten Percent Stockholder
(b) Participant's ability to exercise Options shall be subject to such restrictions, if any, as the Committee may impose. These restrictions may be based upon completion of a specified number of years of service with the Company or a Subsidiary or upon completion of the performance goals as set out in advance in the Participant's individual Stock Option Agreement. Options may vary from Participant to Participant and between groups of Participants. Should the Committee elect to impose restrictions on an Option, the Committee shall: (a) determine the nature, length and starting date of any Performance Period for the Option; (b) select from among the Performance Factors to be used to measure performance goals, if any; and (c) determine the number of Shares subject to such Option. Prior to such Option becoming exercisable, the Committee shall determine the extent to which such Performance Factors have been met. Performance Periods may overlap and Participants may participate simultaneously with respect to Options that are subject to different Performance Periods and have different performance goals and other criteria.
5.4 . The Exercise Price of an Option will be determined by the Committee when the Option is granted and may be not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of grant; provided that the Exercise Price of any ISO
Exercise Price
 
granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder will not be less than 110% of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of grant. Payment for the Shares purchased may be made in accordance with Section 9 of this Plan.
5.5 . Options may be exercised by delivery to the Company of a written stock option exercise agreement (the "") in a form approved by the Committee (which need not be the same for each Participant), stating the number of Shares being purchased, the restrictions imposed on the Shares purchased under such Exercise Agreement, if any, and such representations and agreements regarding Participant's investment intent and access to information and other matters, if any, as may be required or desirable by the Company to comply with applicable securities laws, together with payment in full of the Exercise Price for the number of Shares being purchased. Alternate methods of exercising pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan, may not require the Exercise Agreement, but can be transacted by contacting the Company approved broker to initiate the transaction.
Method of Exercise
Exercise Agreement
5.6 . Notwithstanding the exercise periods set forth in the Stock Option Agreement, exercise of an Option will always be subject to the following:
Termination
 
 
 
 
5.7 . The Committee may specify a reasonable minimum number of Shares that may be purchased on any exercise of an Option, provided that such minimum number will not prevent Participant from exercising the Option for the full number of Shares for which it is then exercisable.
Limitations on Exercise
5.8 . The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the date of grant) of Shares with respect to which ISO are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year (under this Plan or under any other incentive stock option plan of the Company, Parent or Subsidiary of the Company) will not exceed $100,000. If the Fair Market Value of Shares on the date of grant with respect to which ISO are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year exceeds $100,000, then the Options for the first $100,000 worth of Shares to become exercisable in such calendar year will be ISO and the Options for the amount in excess of $100,000 that become exercisable in that calendar year will be NQSOs. In the event that the Code or the regulations promulgated thereunder are amended after the Effective Date of this Plan to provide for a different limit on the Fair Market Value of Shares permitted to be subject to ISO, such different limit will be automatically incorporated herein and will apply to any Options granted after the effective date of such amendment.
Limitations on ISO
5.9 . The Committee may modify, extend or renew outstanding Options and authorize the grant of new Options, provided however, that (i) any such action may not, without the written consent of a Participant, impair any of such Participant's rights under any Option previously granted, (ii) any such action shall not extend the exercise period of the Option to a date later than the later of (a) the fifteenth day of the third month following the date on which the Option otherwise would have expired or (b) December 31 of the calendar year in which the Option would have otherwise expired, and (iii) the Committee may not reduce the Exercise Price of outstanding Options without the approval of the stockholders. Any outstanding ISO that is modified, extended, renewed or otherwise altered will be treated in accordance with Section 424(h) of the Code.
Modification, Extension or Renewal
5.10 . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Plan, no term of this Plan relating to ISO will be interpreted, amended or altered, nor will any discretion or authority granted under this Plan be exercised, so as to disqualify this Plan under Section 422 of the Code or, without the consent of the Participant affected, to disqualify any ISO under Section 422 of the Code.
No Disqualification
. A Restricted Stock Award is an offer by the Company to grant or to sell to an eligible person Shares that are subject to restrictions. The Committee will determine to whom an offer will be made, the number of Shares the person may purchase, the price to be paid (the ""), if any, the restrictions to which the Shares will be subject, and all other terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Award, subject to the following:
6.
RESTRICTED STOCK
Purchase Price
6.1 . All grants or purchases under a Restricted Stock Award made pursuant to this Plan will be evidenced by an Award Agreement ("") that will be in such form (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the Committee will from time to time approve, and will comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan. The offer of Restricted Stock will be accepted by the Participant's execution and delivery of the Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement and full payment, if any, for the Shares to the Company within thirty (30) days, or such other date as may
Form of Restricted Stock Award
Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement
 
be set forth in the Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement, from the date the Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement is delivered to the person. If such person does not execute and deliver the Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement along with full payment, if any, for the Shares to the Company within thirty (30) days, or such other date as may be set forth in the Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement, then the offer will terminate, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
6.2 . The Purchase Price of Shares sold pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award, if any, will be determined by the Committee on the date the Restricted Stock Award is granted. At the Committee's discretion, consideration for the Restricted Stock Award may be in the form of continued service to the Company or a Subsidiary. Payment of the Purchase Price may be made in accordance with Section 9 of this Plan.
Purchase Price
6.3 . Restricted Stock Awards shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee may impose. These restrictions may be based upon completion of a specified number of years of service with the Company or a Subsidiary or upon completion of the performance goals as set out in advance in the Participant's individual Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement. Restricted Stock Awards may vary from Participant to Participant and between groups of Participants. Prior to the grant of a Restricted Stock Award, the Committee shall: (a) determine the nature, length and starting date of any Performance Period for the Restricted Stock Award; (b) select from among the Performance Factors to be used to measure performance goals, if any; and (c) determine the number of Shares that may be awarded to the Participant. Prior to the payment of any Restricted Stock Award, the Committee shall determine the extent to which such Restricted Stock Award has been earned. Performance Periods may overlap and Participants may participate simultaneously with respect to Restricted Stock Awards that are subject to different Performance Periods and having different performance goals and other criteria.
Terms of Restricted Stock Awards
6.4 . If a Participant is Terminated during a Performance Period for any reason, then such Participant will be entitled to payment (whether in Shares, cash or otherwise) with respect to the Restricted Stock Award only to the extent earned as of the date of Termination in accordance with the Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement, unless the Committee determines otherwise in the case of a Participant who is not a "covered employee" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code in the year of Termination.
Termination During Performance Period
. Each Restricted Stock Unit shall have a value equal to the Fair Market Value of a share of the Company's Common Stock. A Restricted Stock Unit does not constitute a share of, nor represent any ownership interest in, the Company. The Committee will determine the number of Restricted Stock Units granted to any eligible person; whether the Restricted Stock Units will be settled in Shares, in cash, or in a combination of the two; the price to be paid (the ""), if any, for any Shares issued pursuant to a Restricted Stock Unit; the restrictions to which the Restricted Stock Units will be subject, and all other terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Units, subject to the following:
7.
RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
Purchase Price
7.1 . All Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Plan will be evidenced by an Award Agreement ("") that will be in such form (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the Committee will from time to time approve, and will comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan. The offer of Restricted Stock Units will be accepted by the Participant's execution and delivery of the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement within thirty (30) days, or such other date as may be set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, from the date the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement is delivered to the person. If such person does not execute and deliver the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement within thirty (30) days, or such other date as may be set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, then the offer will terminate, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award
Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
7.2 . The Purchase Price of Shares sold pursuant to a Restricted Stock Unit, if any, will be determined by the Committee on the date the Restricted Stock Unit is granted. At the Committee's discretion, consideration for the Restricted Stock Unit may be in the form of continued service to the Company or a Subsidiary. Payment of the Purchase Price, if any, shall be made in accordance with Section 9 of this Plan when the Shares are issued.
Purchase Price
 
7.3 . Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee may impose. These restrictions may be based upon completion of a specified number of years of service with the Company or a Subsidiary or upon completion of the performance goals as set out in advance in the Participant's individual Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. Restricted Stock Units may vary from Participant to Participant and between groups of Participants. Prior to the grant of Restricted Stock Units, the Committee shall: (a) determine the nature, length and starting date of any Performance Period for the Restricted Stock Unit; (b) select from among the Performance Factors to be used to measure performance goals, if any; and (c) determine the number of Restricted Stock Units that will be awarded to the Participant. Prior to the payment (whether in Shares, cash or otherwise) of any Restricted Stock Units, the Committee shall determine the extent to which such Restricted Stock Units have been earned. Performance Periods may overlap and Participants may participate simultaneously with respect to Restricted Stock Units that are subject to different Performance Periods and have different performance goals and other criteria.
Terms of Restricted Stock Units
7.4 . If a Participant is Terminated during a Performance Period for any reason, then such Participant will be entitled to payment (whether in Shares, cash or otherwise) with respect to the Restricted Stock Units only to the extent earned as of the date of Termination in accordance with the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, unless the Committee determines otherwise in the case of a Participant who is not a "covered employee" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code in the year of Termination.
Termination During Performance Period
7.5 . The cash or Shares that a Participant is entitled to receive pursuant to a Restricted Stock Unit shall be paid or issued to the Participant when all applicable restrictions and other conditions applicable to the Restricted Stock Unit have lapsed or have been satisfied, unless the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement provides for a later settlement date in compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
Payment When Restrictions Lapse
. The Committee may grant Stock Appreciation Rights or SARs to eligible persons and will determine the number of Shares subject to the SARs, the Exercise Price of the SARs, the period during which the SARs may be exercised, and all other terms and conditions of the SARs, subject to the following:
8.
STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
8.1 . SARs granted under this Plan will be evidenced by an Award Agreement that will expressly identify the SARs as freestanding SARs (SARs granted independent of any other Option), tandem SARs (SARs granted in connection with an Option, or any portion thereof), or any combination thereof (""), and will be in such form and contain such provisions (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the Committee may from time to time approve, and which will comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan.
Form of SAR Grant
SAR Agreement
8.2 . The date of grant of a SAR will be the date on which the Committee makes the determination to grant such SAR, unless otherwise specified by the Committee. The SAR Agreement and a copy of this Plan will be delivered to the Participant within a reasonable time after the granting of the SAR.
Date of Grant
8.3 .
Exercise Price and Other Terms
(a) The Committee, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have complete discretion to determine the terms and conditions of SARs granted under the Plan; that no SAR will be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date the SAR is granted; that the Exercise Price for freestanding SARs shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the grant date. The Exercise Price for tandem SARs shall equal the Exercise Price of the related Option.
provided, however,
provided, further,
 
(b) Participant's ability to exercise SARs shall be subject to such restrictions, if any, as the Committee may impose. These restrictions may be based upon completion of a specified number of years of service with the Company or a Subsidiary or upon completion of the performance goals as set out in advance in the Participant's individual SAR Agreement. SARs may vary from Participant to Participant and between groups of Participants. Should the Committee elect to impose restrictions on a SAR, the Committee shall: (a) determine the nature, length and starting date of any Performance Period for the SAR; (b) select from among the Performance Factors to be used to measure performance goals, if any; and (c) determine the number of Shares subject to such SAR. Prior to such SAR becoming exercisable, the Committee shall determine the extent to which such Performance Factors have been met. Performance Periods may overlap and Participants may participate simultaneously with respect to SAR that are subject to different Performance Periods and have different performance goals and other criteria.
8.4 . Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or part of the Shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option. Tandem SARs may be exercised only with respect to the Shares for which the related Option is then exercisable. With respect to tandem SARs granted in connection with an Option: (a) the tandem SARs shall expire no later than the expiration of the underlying Option; (b) the value of the payout with respect to the tandem SARs shall be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the Exercise Price of the underlying Option and the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the underlying Option at the time the tandem SARs are exercised; and (c) the tandem SARs shall be exercisable only when the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the underlying Option exceeds the Exercise Price of the Option.
Exercise of Tandem SARs
8.5 . Freestanding SARs shall be exercisable on such terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Exercise of Freestanding SARs
8.6 . Upon exercise of a SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying:
Payment of SAR Amount
 
 
At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon exercise of the SAR may be in cash, in Shares of equivalent value, or in some combination thereof.
8.7 . Notwithstanding the exercise periods set forth in the SAR Agreement, exercise of a SAR will always be subject to the following:
Termination
 
 
 
8.8 . The Committee may modify, extend or renew outstanding SARs and authorize the grant of new SARs, provided however, that (i) any such action may not, without the written consent of a Participant, impair any of such Participant's rights under any SAR previously granted, (ii) any such action shall not extend the exercise period of the SAR to a date later than the later of (a) the fifteenth day of the third month following the date on which the SAR otherwise would have expired or (b) December 31 of the calendar year in which the Option would have otherwise expired, and (iii) the Committee may not reduce the Exercise Price of outstanding SARs without the approval of the stockholders.
Modification, Extension or Renewal
. Where expressly approved for the Participant by the Committee and where permitted by law, payment for Shares purchased pursuant to this Plan may:
9.
PAYMENT FOR SHARE PURCHASES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
10.
AUTOMATIC GRANTS TO OUTSIDE DIRECTORS
10.1 . Awards granted under this Plan and subject to this Section 10 may, at the discretion of the Committee, be NQSOs, SARs, or Restricted Stock Units; that any payment upon exercise of SARs granted pursuant to this section 10 shall be in Shares of equivalent value.
Types of Awards and Shares
provided, however,
10.2 . Awards subject to this Section 10 shall be granted only to Outside Directors. Outside Directors shall also be eligible to receive Awards granted pursuant to sections 5, 6, 7 and 8 hereof at such times and on such conditions as determined by the Committee.
Eligibility
10.3 . Each Outside Director who first becomes a member of the Board on or after the Effective Date will automatically be granted (a) an Option or SAR, as determined by the Committee, for 17,500 Shares and (b) 2,500 Restricted Stock Units (together, an "") on the date such Outside Director first becomes a member of the Board.
Initial Grant
Initial Grant
10.4 . Upon re-election to the Board at each Annual Meeting of Stockholders, each Outside Director will automatically be granted (a) an Option or SAR, as determined by the Committee, for 8,400 Shares and (b) 1,200 Restricted Stock Units (together, a ""); that any such Outside Director who received an Initial Grant since the last Annual Meeting of Stockholders will receive a prorated Succeeding Grant consisting of (x) an Option or SAR, as determined by the Committee, to purchase a number of Shares equal to 8,400 multiplied by a fraction whose numerator is the number of calendar
Succeeding Grants
Succeeding Grant
provided, however,
 
months or portions thereof that the Outside Director has served since the date of the Initial Grant and whose denominator is twelve, and (y) a grant of Restricted Stock Units equal to 1,200 multiplied by a fraction whose numerator is the number of calendar months or portions thereof that the Outside Director has served since the date of the Initial Grant and whose denominator is twelve.
10.5 .
Vesting
(a) The date an Outside Director receives an Initial Grant or a Succeeding Grant is referred to in this Plan as the "" for such Award. Each Initial Grant will vest (a) with respect to Options or SARs, as to 2% of the Shares on the Start Date for such Initial Grant, and as to an additional 2% of the Shares on the first day of each calendar month after the Start Date, so long as the Outside Director continuously remains a director of the Company, and (b) with respect to Restricted Stock Units, in accordance with the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. Succeeding Grants will vest in accordance with each Stock Option, SAR or Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, as the case may be.
Start Date
(b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, in the event of a corporate transaction described in Section 19.1, the vesting of all Awards granted to Outside Directors pursuant to this Section 10 will accelerate and such Awards will become exercisable in full prior to the consummation of such event at such times and on such conditions as the Committee determines, and must be exercised, if at all, within three months of the consummation of said event. Any Awards not exercised within such three-month period shall expire.
10.6 . The exercise price of an Award pursuant to an Initial Grant or Succeeding Grant shall be the Fair Market Value of the Shares at the time that the Award is granted.
Exercise Price
10.7 . Each Outside Director may elect to reduce all or part of the cash compensation otherwise payable for services to be rendered by him as a director (including the annual retainer and any fees payable for serving on the Board or a Committee of the Board) and to receive in lieu thereof Shares. Any such election shall be in writing and must be made before the services are rendered giving rise to such compensation, and may not be revoked or changed thereafter during the Outside Director's term. On such election, the cash compensation otherwise payable will be increased by 10% for purposes of determining the number of Shares to be credited to such Outside Director. If an Outside Director so elects to receive Shares in lieu of cash, there shall be credited to such Outside Director a number of Shares equal to the amount of the cash compensation so reduced (increased by 10% as described in the preceding sentence) divided by the Fair Market Value on the day in which the compensation would have been paid in the absence of such election.
Shares in Lieu of Cash Compensation
.
11.
WITHHOLDING TAXES
11.1 . Whenever Shares are to be issued in satisfaction of Awards granted under this Plan, the Company may require the Participant to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state and local withholding tax and social security requirements prior to the delivery of any certificate or certificates for such Shares. Whenever, under this Plan, payments in satisfaction of Awards are to be made in cash, such payment will be net of an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local withholding tax and social security requirements.
Withholding Generally
11.2 . When, under applicable tax or social security laws, a Participant incurs tax or social security liability in connection with the exercise or vesting of any Award that is subject to tax or social security withholding and the Participant is obligated to pay the Company the amount required to be withheld, the Committee may in its sole discretion allow the Participant to satisfy the minimum tax or social security withholding obligation by electing to have the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued that number of Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld, determined on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined.
Stock Withholding
 
All elections by a Participant to have Shares withheld for this purpose will be made in accordance with the requirements established by the Committee and be in writing in a form acceptable to the Committee.
.
12.
TRANSFERABILITY
12.1 Except as otherwise provided in this Section 12, Awards granted under this Plan, and any interest therein, will not be transferable or assignable by Participant, and may not be made subject to execution, attachment or similar process, otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or as determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement with respect to Awards that are not ISOs.
12.2 All Awards other than NQSOs and SARs shall be exercisable: (i) during the Participant's lifetime, only by (A) the Participant, or (B) the Participant's guardian or legal representative; and (ii) after Participant's death, by the legal representative of the Participant's heirs or legatees.
All Awards other than NQSOs and SARs.
12.3 . Unless otherwise restricted by the Committee, a NQSO and SAR shall be exercisable: (i) during the Participant's lifetime only by (A) the Participant, (B) the Participant's guardian or legal representative, (C) a Family Member of the Participant who has acquired the NQSO or SAR by "permitted transfer;" and (ii) after Participant's death, by the legal representative of the Participant's heirs or legatees. "Permitted transfer" means, as authorized by this Plan and the Committee in a Stock Option Agreement or SAR Agreement, any transfer effected by the Participant during the Participant's lifetime of an interest in such NQSO and SAR but only such transfers which are by gift or domestic relations order. A permitted transfer does not include any transfer for value and neither of the following are transfers for value: (a) a transfer under a domestic relations order in settlement of marital property rights or (b) a transfer to an entity in which more than fifty percent of the voting interests are owned by Family Members or the Participant in exchange for an interest in that entity.
NQSOs and SARs
.
13.
PRIVILEGES OF STOCK OWNERSHIP; RESTRICTIONS ON SHARES
13.1 . No Participant will have any of the rights of a stockholder with respect to any Shares until the Shares are issued to the Participant. After Shares are issued to the Participant, the Participant will be a stockholder and have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to such Shares, including the right to vote and receive all dividends or other distributions made or paid with respect to such Shares; , that if such Shares are Restricted Stock, then any new, additional or different securities the Participant may become entitled to receive with respect to such Shares by virtue of a stock dividend, stock split or any other change in the corporate or capital structure of the Company will be subject to the same restrictions as the Restricted Stock; , , that the Participant will have no right to retain such stock dividends or stock distributions with respect to Shares that are repurchased at the Participant's Purchase Price or Exercise Price pursuant to Section 13.2.
Voting and Dividends
provided
provided
further
13.2 At the discretion of the Committee, the Company may reserve to itself and/or its assignee(s) in the Award Agreement a right to repurchase a portion of or all Unvested Shares held by a Participant following such Participant's Termination at any time within ninety (90) days after the later of Participant's Termination Date and the date Participant purchases Shares under this Plan, for cash and/or cancellation of purchase money indebtedness, at the Participant's Exercise Price or Purchase Price, as the case may be.
Restrictions on Shares.
. All certificates for Shares or other securities delivered under this Plan will be subject to such stock transfer orders, legends and other restrictions as the Committee may deem necessary or advisable, including restrictions under any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law, or any rules, regulations and other requirements of the SEC or any stock exchange or automated quotation system upon which the Shares may be listed or quoted.
14.
CERTIFICATES
 
. To enforce any restrictions on a Participant's Shares, the Committee may require the Participant to deposit all certificates representing Shares, together with stock powers or other instruments of transfer approved by the Committee, appropriately endorsed in blank, with the Company or an agent designated by the Company to hold in escrow until such restrictions have lapsed or terminated, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends referencing such restrictions to be placed on the certificates. Any Participant who is permitted to execute a promissory note as partial or full consideration for the purchase of Shares under this Plan will be required to pledge and deposit with the Company all or part of the Shares so purchased as collateral to secure the payment of Participant's obligation to the Company under the promissory note; that the Committee may require or accept other or additional forms of collateral to secure the payment of such obligation and, in any event, the Company will have full recourse against the Participant under the promissory note notwithstanding any pledge of the Participant's Shares or other collateral. In connection with any pledge of the Shares, Participant will be required to execute and deliver a written pledge agreement in such form as the Committee will from time to time approve. The Shares purchased with the promissory note may be released from the pledge on a pro rata basis as the promissory note is paid.
15.
ESCROW; PLEDGE OF SHARES
provided, however,
. The Committee may, at any time or from time to time, authorize the Company, with the consent of the respective Participants, to issue new Awards in exchange for the surrender and cancellation of any or all outstanding Awards;that no such exchange program may, without the approval of the Company's stockholders, allow for the cancellation of an outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right followed by its replacement with a new Option or Stock Appreciation Right having a lower Exercise Price. The Committee may, subject to approval by the Company's stockholders, at any time buy from a Participant an Award previously granted with payment in cash, Shares (including Restricted Stock) or other consideration, based on such terms and conditions as the Committee and the Participant may agree.
16.
EXCHANGE AND BUYOUT OF AWARDS
provided, however,
. An Award will not be effective unless such Award is in compliance with all applicable federal and state securities laws, rules and regulations of any governmental body, and the requirements of any stock exchange or automated quotation system upon which the Shares may then be listed or quoted, as they are in effect on the date of grant of the Award and also on the date of exercise or other issuance. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Plan, the Company will have no obligation to issue or deliver certificates for Shares under this Plan prior to: (a) obtaining any approvals from governmental agencies that the Company determines are necessary or advisable; and/or (b) completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal law or ruling of any governmental body that the Company determines to be necessary or advisable. The Company will be under no obligation to register the Shares with the SEC or to effect compliance with the registration, qualification or listing requirements of any state securities laws, stock exchange or automated quotation system, and the Company will have no liability for any inability or failure to do so.
17.
SECURITIES LAW AND OTHER REGULATORY COMPLIANCE
. Nothing in this Plan or any Award granted under this Plan will confer or be deemed to confer on any Participant any right to continue in the employ of, or to continue any other relationship with, the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company to terminate Participant's employment or other relationship at any time, with or without cause.
18.
NO OBLIGATION TO EMPLOY
.
19.
CORPORATE TRANSACTIONS
19.1 . Except for automatic grants to Outside Directors pursuant to Section 10 hereof, in the event of (a) a dissolution or liquidation of the Company, (b) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the surviving corporation (other than a merger or consolidation with a wholly-owned subsidiary, a reincorporation of the Company in a different jurisdiction, or other transaction in which there is no substantial change in the stockholders of the Company or their relative stock holdings and the Awards granted under this Plan are assumed, converted or replaced by the successor corporation, which assumption will be binding on all Participants), (c) a merger in which the Company is the surviving corporation but after which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such merger (other than any stockholder that merges, or which owns or controls another corporation that merges, with the Company in such merger) cease to own their shares or other equity interest
Assumption or Replacement of Awards by Successor
 
in the Company, (d) the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company, or (e) the acquisition, sale, or transfer of more than 50% of the outstanding shares of the Company by tender offer or similar transaction, any or all outstanding Awards may be assumed, converted or replaced by the successor corporation (if any), which assumption, conversion or replacement will be binding on all Participants. In the alternative, the successor corporation may substitute equivalent Awards or provide substantially similar consideration to Participants as was provided to stockholders (after taking into account the existing provisions of the Awards). The successor corporation may also issue, in place of outstanding Shares of the Company held by the Participants, substantially similar shares or other property subject to repurchase restrictions no less favorable to the Participant. In the event such successor corporation (if any) refuses to assume or substitute Awards, as provided above, pursuant to a transaction described in this Section 19.1, such Awards will accelerate and will become exercisable in full prior to the consummation of such transaction at such time and on such conditions as the Committee will determine, and if such Awards are not exercised prior to the consummation of the corporate transaction, they shall terminate at such time as determined by the Committee.
19.2 . Subject to any greater rights granted to Participants under the foregoing provisions of this Section 19, in the event of the occurrence of any transaction described in Section 19.1, any outstanding Awards will be treated as provided in the applicable agreement or plan of merger, consolidation, dissolution, liquidation, or sale of assets.
Other Treatment of Awards
19.3 . The Company, from time to time, also may substitute or assume outstanding awards granted by another company, whether in connection with an acquisition of such other company or otherwise, by either; (a) granting an Award under this Plan in substitution of such other company's award; or (b) assuming such award as if it had been granted under this Plan if the terms of such assumed award could be applied to an Award granted under this Plan. Such substitution or assumption will be permissible if the holder of the substituted or assumed award would have been eligible to be granted an Award under this Plan if the other company had applied the rules of this Plan to such grant. In the event the Company assumes an award granted by another company, the terms and conditions of such award will remain unchanged ( that the exercise price and the number and nature of Shares issuable upon exercise of any such option will be adjusted appropriately pursuant to Sections 409A and 424(a) of the Code). In the event the Company elects to grant a new Option or SAR rather than assuming an existing option, such new Option or SAR may be granted with a similarly adjusted Exercise Price.
Assumption of Awards by the Company
except
. This Plan will become effective on the date that it is adopted by the Board (the ""). This Plan shall be approved by the stockholders of the Company (excluding Shares issued pursuant to this Plan), consistent with applicable laws, within twelve (12) months before or after the date this Plan is adopted by the Board. Upon the Effective Date, the Committee may grant Awards pursuant to this Plan; that: (a) no Option or SAR may be exercised prior to initial stockholder approval of this Plan; (b) no Option or SAR granted pursuant to an increase in the number of Shares subject to this Plan approved by the Board will be exercised prior to the time such increase has been approved by the stockholders of the Company; (c) in the event that initial stockholder approval is not obtained within the time period provided herein, all Awards granted hereunder shall be cancelled, any Shares issued pursuant to any Awards shall be cancelled and any purchase of Shares issued hereunder shall be rescinded; and (d) in the event that stockholder approval of such increase is not obtained within the time period provided herein, all Awards granted pursuant to such increase will be cancelled, any Shares issued pursuant to any Award granted pursuant to such increase will be cancelled, and any purchase of Shares pursuant to such increase will be rescinded.
20.
ADOPTION AND STOCKHOLDER APPROVAL
Effective Date
provided, however,
. Unless terminated as provided herein, this Plan will continue in effect terminate twenty (20) years from the date this Plan was first adopted by the Board or, if earlier, the date of stockholder approval. This Plan and all agreements thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California.
21.
TERM OF PLAN/GOVERNING LAW
 
. The Board may at any time terminate or amend this Plan in any respect, including without limitation amendment of any form of Award Agreement or instrument to be executed pursuant to this Plan; that the Board will not, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, amend this Plan in any manner that requires such stockholder approval.
22.
AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF PLAN
provided, however,
. Neither the adoption of this Plan by the Board, the submission of this Plan to the stockholders of the Company for approval, nor any provision of this Plan will be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board to adopt such additional compensation arrangements as it may deem desirable, including, without limitation, the granting of stock options and bonuses otherwise than under this Plan, and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
23.
NONEXCLUSIVITY OF THE PLAN
. As used in this Plan, the following terms will have the following meanings:
24.
DEFINITIONS
"" means any award under this Plan, including any Option, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit or Stock Appreciation Right.
Award
"" means, with respect to each Award, the signed written agreement between the Company and the Participant setting forth the terms and conditions of the Award.
Award Agreement
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
"" means the commission of an act of theft, embezzlement, fraud, dishonesty, other acts constituting gross misconduct, or a breach of fiduciary duty to the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary of the Company.
Cause
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" means the Compensation Committee of the Board.
Committee
"" means Electronic Arts Inc. or any successor corporation.
Company
"" means a disability, whether temporary or permanent, partial or total, as determined by the Committee.
Disability
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means the price at which a holder of an Option or a SAR, as the case may be, may purchase the Shares issuable upon exercise of such Option or SAR.
Exercise Price
"" means, as of any date, the value of a share of the Company's Common Stock determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means an officer or director of the Company or any other person whose transactions in the Company's Common Stock are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
Insider
"" means an award of an option to purchase Shares pursuant to Section 5.
Option
"" means a member of the Board who is not an employee of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company.
Outside Director
"" means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Company if each of such corporations other than the Company owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Parent
"" means a person who receives an Award under this Plan.
Participant
"" means any of the factors selected by the Committee and specified in an Award Agreement, from among the following objective measures, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to the Company as a whole or any business unit or Subsidiary, either individually, alternatively, or in any combination, on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis, and measured, to the extent applicable on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to determine whether the performance goals established by the Committee with respect to applicable Awards have been satisfied:
Performance Factors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee may, in recognition of unusual or non-recurring items such as acquisition-related activities or changes in applicable accounting rules, provide for one or more equitable adjustments (based on objective standards) to the Performance Factors to preserve the Committee's original intent regarding the Performance Factors at the time of the initial award grant. It is within the sole discretion of the Committee to make or not make any such equitable adjustments.
"" means the period of service determined by the Committee, which shall be no less than one calendar quarter nor more than five years (unless tied to a specific and objective milestone or event), during which time of service or performance is to be measured for Awards.
Performance Period
"" means this EA 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan
"" means an award of Shares that are subject to restrictions pursuant to Section 6.
Restricted Stock Award
"" means an award of the right to receive, in cash or Shares, the value of a share of the Company's Common Stock pursuant to Section 7.
Restricted Stock Unit
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" means shares of the Company's Common Stock reserved for issuance under this Plan, as adjusted pursuant to Sections 2 and 19, and any successor security.
Shares
or means an Award, granted alone or in tandem with a related Option that pursuant to Section 8 is designated as a SAR.
"
Stock Appreciation Right
"
"
SAR
"
"" means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company if each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Subsidiary
"" or "" means, for purposes of this Plan with respect to a Participant, that the Participant has for any reason ceased to provide services as an employee, officer, director, consultant, independent contractor, or advisor to the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. An employee will not be deemed to have ceased to provide services in the case of (i) sick leave, (ii) military leave, or (iii) any other leave of absence approved by the Committee, provided, that such leave is for a period of not more than 90 days, unless reemployment upon the expiration of such leave is guaranteed by contract or statute or unless provided otherwise pursuant to formal policy adopted from time to time by the Company and issued and promulgated to employees in writing. In the case of any employee on an approved leave of absence, the Committee may make such provisions respecting suspension of vesting of the Award while on leave from the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary as it may deem appropriate, except that in no event may an Option be exercised after the expiration of the term set forth in the Option agreement. The Committee will have sole discretion to determine whether a Participant has ceased to provide services and the effective date on which the Participant ceased to provide services (the "").
Termination
Terminated
Termination Date
"" means "Unvested Shares" as defined in the Award Agreement.
Unvested Shares
"" means "Vested Shares" as defined in the Award Agreement.
Vested Shares
 
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.
NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION GRANT
2000 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN
[Box with Optionee information]
Electronic Arts Inc., a Delaware corporation, (the "Company") hereby grants to the individual named above (the "Optionee"), a nonqualified stock option grant (the "Option") under the Company's 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), to purchase the total number of shares set forth below of common stock of the Company (the "Option Shares") at the exercise price set forth below (the "Exercise Price"). The Option is subject to all the terms and conditions of the Nonqualified Stock Option Grant including the terms and conditions in the attached Appendix A (the "Grant") and the Plan, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference. All capitalized terms used in this Grant that are not defined herein have the meanings defined in the Plan. The principal features of the Option are as follows:
[Box with grant and vest date information]
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Grant, the Option will first vest and become exercisable as to [INSERT VESTING TERMS]
The Optionee shall be deemed to have worked a calendar month if Optionee has worked any portion of that month. Only vested Options may be exercised. Vesting will continue in accordance with the Grant during a leave of absence that is protected by contract or under local law (which may include, but is not limited to, a maternity, paternity, disability, medical, or military leave), provided that vesting shall cease if and when the leave of absence is no longer guaranteed by contract or local law. Vesting shall be suspended during any unpaid personal leave of absence, except as otherwise required by contract or local law.
PLEASE READ ALL OF APPENDIX A WHICH CONTAINS THE SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE OPTION.
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.
Stephen G. Ben
Senior Vice President, General Counsel
ACCEPTANCE:
The Optionee acknowledges the receipt of the Option under the Plan and agrees to voluntarily participate in the Plan. The Optionee acknowledges that a copy of the Plan and a copy of the Prospectus, both as amended, are available upon request from the Company's
Stock Administration Department and can also be accessed electronically. Optionee represents that Optionee has read and understands the contents of the Plan, the prospectus, and the Grant, and accepts the Option subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Grant. The Optionee understands and acknowledges that there may be tax consequences related to the grant, vesting and/or exercise of the Option and the sale of the underlying Option Shares and that Optionee should consult a tax advisor.
APPENDIX A
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.
Nonqualified Stock Option (the "Option") Terms and Conditions (US)
Under the 2000 Equity Incentive Plan
1. Form of Option Grant. Each Option granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a Stock Option Grant (the "Grant") in such form (which need not be the same for each Optionee) as the Committee shall from time to time approve, which Grant shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. Grants may be evidenced by paper copy or electronic copy.
2. Date of Grant. The date of grant of the Option shall be the date on which the Committee makes the determination to grant such Option, unless otherwise specified by the Committee. The Grant representing the Option will be delivered to Optionee within a reasonable time after the granting of the Option.
3. Exercise Price. The Exercise Price of the Option shall be determined by the Committee on the date the Option is granted pursuant to the rules of the Plan.
4. Exercise Period. Options shall be exercisable within the times or upon the events determined by the Committee as set forth in the Grant; provided, however, that no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date the Option is granted (the "Expiration Date").
5. Restrictions on Exercise. Exercise of the Option is subject to the following limitations:
(a) The Option may not be exercised until the Plan has been approved by the stockholders of the Company as set forth in the Plan.
(b) The Option may not be exercised and the Option Shares may not be issued unless such exercise issuance is in compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, all applicable state and local securities laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange or national market system on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed, as they are in effect on the date of exercise.
6. Cancellation of Option.
(a) Except as provided in this section, the unvested portion of the Option shall be cancelled in whole if Optionee is Terminated and may not be exercised to the extent cancelled. If the Optionee is Terminated for any reason except by death or Disability, the Option, to the extent it is exercisable on the Termination Date, may be exercised by the Optionee within three (3) months after the Termination Date, but in no event later than the Expiration Date.
(b) If the Optionee's employment with the Company is Terminated because of the Retirement of the Optionee, as defined below, the Option, to the extent that it is exercisable on the Termination Date, may be exercised by the Optionee at any time prior to the earlier of
(i) expiration of sixty (60) months from the Termination Date, and (ii) the Expiration Date. For the purposes of this Paragraph 6(c) "Retirement" means voluntary terminations, involuntary terminations in connection with a reduction in force, or other involuntary terminations other than for Cause (if and to the extent the Company, in its sole discretion, determines such a termination to be eligible for purposes of this Paragraph 6(c)) if Optionee's age added to Optionee's years of Service with the Company equals or exceeds sixty (60) and Optionee has at least ten (10) years of service with the Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Paragraph 6(c), "Service" means employment from date of hire to Termination Date plus any previous employment with the Company where the previous employment period was at least 12 months (exclusive of any extended non-medical leaves of absence) and exceeded the length of time between Optionee's previous and current employment with the Company. Notwithstanding the definition of Retirement set forth in this Section 6(c), if the Company receives an opinion of counsel that there has been a legal judgment and/or legal development in Optionee's jurisdiction that would likely result in the favorable Retirement treatment that applies to the Option pursuant to this Section 6(c) being deemed unlawful and/or discriminatory, then the Company will not apply the favorable Retirement treatment at the time of Optionee's Termination and the Option will be treated as it would under the rules that apply if Optionee's employment ends for reasons other than death, Retirement or Disability.
(c) If the Optionee is Terminated because of the death of the Optionee or Disability of the Optionee, the Option, to the extent that it is exercisable on the Termination Date, may be exercised by the Optionee (or the Optionee's legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve months after the Termination Date, but in any event no later than the Expiration Date.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions in subsection 6(a) above, if the Optionee's employment is Terminated for Cause, the Option may not be exercised to any extent whatsoever and any and all rights and claims Optionee may have to any Option Shares, or value attributable to any Option Shares upon vesting is hereby revoked.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions in subsection 6(a) above, if (i) the Optionee's employment with the Company is Terminated other than for Cause, (ii) the Optionee was subject to the Company's "trading window" (as described in the Company's Policy on Securities Trades by Electronic Arts Personnel) at the time his or her employment was Terminated, and (iii) the "trading window" was closed at the time the Optionee's employment was Terminated and remained closed during the entire Post-Termination Exercise Period (thereby preventing the immediate resale of Option Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option), then the Option, to the extent it is exercisable on the Termination Date, shall remain exercisable until ten (10) days after the date the Optionee is notified by the Company that the "trading window" has been opened; provided, however, that no Option will be exercisable later than the Expiration Date.
(f) Nothing in the Plan or the Grant shall confer on Optionee any right to continue in the employ of, or other relationship with, the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary to terminate Optionee's employment or other relationship at any time, with or without Cause.
7. Suspension of Option and Repayment of Proceeds for Contributing Misconduct.
If at any time the Committee reasonably believes that a Participant, other than an Outside Director, has engaged in an act of misconduct, including, but not limited to an act of embezzlement, fraud or breach of fiduciary duty during the Participant's employment that contributed to an obligation to restate the Company's financial statements ("Contributing Misconduct"), the Committee may suspend the vesting of the Option pending a determination of whether an act of Contributing Misconduct has been committed. If the Committee determines that a Participant has engaged in an act of Contributing Misconduct, then the Option will terminate immediately upon such determination and the Committee may require Participant to repay to the Company, in cash and upon demand, the Option Proceeds (as defined below) resulting from any sale or other disposition (including to the Company) of Option Shares if the sale or disposition was effected during the twelve-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the SEC of the financial statements required to be restated. The term "Option Proceeds" means, with respect to any sale or other disposition (including to the Company) of Option Shares, an amount determined appropriate by the Committee to reflect the effect of the restatement on the Company's stock price, up to the amount equal to the market value per Option Share at the time of such sale or other disposition multiplied by the number of Option Shares sold or disposed of. The return of Option Proceeds is in addition to and separate from any other relief available to the Company due to the Participant's Contributing Misconduct. Any determination by the Committee with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive and binding on all interested parties. For any Participant who is designated as an "executive officer", the determination of the Committee shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Directors.
8. Manner of Exercise.
(a) The Option shall be exercisable by delivery to the Company of a written notice in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, or in such other form as may be approved by the Company, which shall set forth the Optionee's election to exercise the Option, the number of Option Shares being purchased, and such other representations and agreements as to the Optionee's investment intent and access to information as may be required by the Company to comply with applicable securities laws.
(b) Such notice shall be accompanied by full payment of the Exercise Price (i) in cash; (ii) with proceeds from a sale made pursuant to a broker-assisted same-day sale, (iii) by tender of shares of Common Stock of the Company having a fair market value equal to the Exercise Price; or (iv) a combination of the foregoing, provided that a portion of the Exercise Price equal to the par value of the Option Shares, if any, must be paid in cash or other legal consideration.
(c) Prior to the issuance of the Option Shares upon exercise of the Option, the Optionee must pay or make adequate provision for any Tax-Related Items (as defined below).
(d) Provided that such notice and payment are in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Company, the Company shall issue the Option Shares registered in the name of the Optionee or the Optionee's legal representative.
9. Nontransferability of Option. No Option may be sold, pledged, hypothecated, transferred or disposed of in any manner other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.
10. Tax Consequences. Set forth below is a brief summary as of the date on which the Option was granted of some of the federal tax consequences of exercise of the Option and disposition of the Option Shares. Additional information is included in the Prospectus for the Plan, as amended. THIS SUMMARY IS NECESSARILY INCOMPLETE, AND THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. OPTIONEE SHOULD CONSULT A TAX ADVISER BEFORE EXERCISING THE OPTION OR DISPOSING OF THE SHARES.
(a) Exercise. Upon exercise, Optionee will recognize compensation income (taxable at ordinary income tax rates) equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the Option Shares on the date of exercise over the Exercise Price. The Company may be required to withhold from Optionee's compensation or collect from Optionee (by any of the means described in Section 10 below) and pay to the applicable taxing authorities an amount equal to a percentage of this compensation income at the time of exercise.
(b) Disposition of the Option Shares. For federal tax purposes, if the Option Shares are held for less than twelve (12) months after the date of transfer of the Option Shares pursuant to the exercise of the Option, any gain realized on the disposition of the Option Shares will be treated as a short-term capital gain. If the Shares are held for more than twelve (12) months any such gain will be treated as long-term capital gain.
The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding Optionee's participation in the Plan, or Optionee's acquisition or sale of the underlying Option Shares. Optionee should obtain tax, legal and financial advice before exercising the Option and prior to the disposition of the Option Shares.
11. Responsibility for Taxes. Regardless of any action the Company and/or, if different, the Optionee's employer (the "Employer") takes with respect to any or all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items arising out of Optionee's participation in the Plan and legally applicable to Optionee ("Tax-Related Items"), Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains Optionee's responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company and/or the Employer. Optionee further acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of Option Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (ii) do not commit and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate Optionee's liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Furthermore, if Optionee has become subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction between the date on which the Option was granted and the date of any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, Optionee acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.
Prior to the relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, Optionee shall pay or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, Optionee authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy the Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (i) withholding from Optionee's wages or other cash compensation paid to Optionee by the Company or the Employer; or (ii) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Option Shares acquired at exercise of the Option either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on Optionee's behalf pursuant to this authorization); or (iii) withholding in Option Shares to be issued at exercise of the Option.
To avoid any negative accounting treatment, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding amounts or other applicable withholding rates. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in Option Shares, for tax purposes, Optionee is deemed to have been issued the full number of Option Shares subject to the exercised Options, notwithstanding that a number of the shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of Optionee's participation in the Plan.
Optionee shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of Optionee's participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means described in this Section. The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares, if Optionee fails to comply with his or her obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.
12. Authority of the Board and the Committee. Any dispute regarding the interpretation of the Grant shall be submitted by Optionee, the Employer, or the Company, forthwith to the Board or the Committee, which shall review such dispute at its next regular meeting. The resolution of such a dispute by the Board or Committee shall be final and binding on the Optionee, the Employer, and/or the Company.
13. Governing Law and Venue. This Grant, as governed by, and subject to, the laws of the State of California without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises directly or indirectly from the relationship of the parties evidenced by this Grant, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of San Mateo County, California, or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California, and no other courts, where this grant is made and/or to be performed.
14. Severability. The provisions of this Grant are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.
15. Appendix B. The Option shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in the Appendix B. If Optionee relocates to one of the countries included in the Appendix B
during the life of the Option, the special terms and conditions for such country shall apply to Optionee, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such provisions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix B constitutes part of this Grant.
16. Imposition of Other Requirements. The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on the Option and the Option Shares purchased upon exercise of the Option, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local laws or facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require Optionee to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
17. Entire Agreement. The Exercise Notice and Agreement attached as Exhibit A and the Plan are incorporated herein by reference. The Grant, the Plan and the Exercise Notice and Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede all prior undertakings and agreements with respect to the subject matter hereof.
18. Notice. Copies of the Plan and Prospectus are available electronically at http://portal.ea.com/home/stockadmin. The Company's most recent annual report and published financial statements are available electronically as soon as practicable after their publication by clicking the "Financial Reports" link at http://investor.ea.com. The Plan, Prospectus, the Company's annual report, and the Company's financial statements are also available at no charge by submitting a request to the Company's Stock Administration Department at .
stockadministration@ea.com
 
Electronic Arts Inc., a Delaware corporation, (the "Company") hereby grants to the individual named above (the "Optionee"), a non-qualified stock option grant (the "Option") under the Company's 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), to purchase the total number of shares set forth below of common stock of the Company (the "Option Shares") at the exercise price set forth below (the "Exercise Price"). The Option is subject to all the terms and conditions of the Nonqualified Stock Option Grant including the terms and conditions in the attached Appendix A (the "Grant") and the Plan, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference. The principal features of the option are as follows:
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Grant, this Option will first vest and become exercisable as to 100% of the underlying Option Shares, on the earlier of (i) the [NEXT SUBSEQUENT] Annual Meeting of Stockholders or (ii) 12 months from Vest Start Date. Optionee may then exercise the option with respect to vested Option Shares at any time until expiration or cancellation.
PLEASE READ ALL OF APPENDIX A WHICH CONTAINS THE SPECIFIC TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF THE OPTION.
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.
Stephen G. Ben
Senior Vice President, General Counsel
ACCEPTANCE:
Optionee hereby acknowledges that a copy of the Plan and a copy of the Prospectus as amended are available upon request from the Stock Administration department and can also be accessed electronically. Optionee represents that Optionee has read and understands the terms and conditions thereof, and accepts the Option subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Grant. Optionee acknowledges that there may be adverse tax consequences upon exercise of the Option and that Optionee should consult a tax advisor prior to such exercise.
 
1. . Each Option granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a Stock Option Grant (the "Grant") in such form (which need not be the same for each Optionee) as the Committee shall from time to time approve, which Grant shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. Grants may be evidenced by paper copy or electronic copy.
Form of Option Grant
2. . The date of grant of the Option shall be the date on which the Committee makes the determination to grant such Option unless otherwise specified by the committee. The Grant representing the Option will be delivered to Optionee within a reasonable time after the granting of the Option. Copies of the Plan and Prospectus can be obtained by contacting the Stock Administration Department. Delivery may be made either by paper copy or electronically.
Date of Grant
3. . The exercise price of the Option shall be determined by the Committee on the date the Option is granted.
Exercise Price
4. . Options shall be exercisable within the times or upon the events determined by the Committee as set forth in the Grant; provided, however, that no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date the Option is granted.
Exercise Period
5. . Exercise of the Option is subject to the following limitations:
Restrictions on Exercise
(a) The Option may not be exercised until the Plan has been approved by the stockholders of the Company as set forth in the Plan.
(b) The Option may not be exercised unless such exercise is in compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, all applicable state securities laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange or national market system on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed, as they are in effect on the date of exercise.
(c) The Option may be exercised even if there is outstanding, within the meaning of Section 422A(c)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended (the ""), any incentive stock option to purchase stock of the Company or its Parent or Subsidiary (as defined in the plan) that was granted to the Optionee before the grant of the Option.
Code
6. .
Cancellation of Option
(a) Except as provided in this section, the Option shall be cancelled in whole if Optionee ceases to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Company (a "Board Member") and may not be exercised to the extent cancelled. If the Optionee ceases to be a Board Member for any reason except by death or disability, the Option, to the extent it is exercisable by the Optionee on the date on which the Optionee ceases to be a Board Member (the "Termination Date"), may be exercised by the Optionee within three (3) months after the Termination Date, but in no event later than the Expiration Date;
(b) If the Optionee ceases to be a Board Member because of the Retirement of the Optionee, as defined below, the Option, to the extent that it is exercisable on the Termination Date, may be exercised by the Optionee at any time prior to the earlier of (i) expiration of sixty (60) months from the Termination Date, and (ii) the Expiration Date. For the purposes of this Paragraph 6(b), "Retirement" means voluntary resignation as a Board Member by Optionee if Optionee's age added to Optionee's years of Service with the Company equals or exceeds sixty (60) years and Optionee has at least ten (10) years of service with the Company. For the purposes of this Paragraph 6(b), "Service" means term from date of election to the Board to Termination Date.
(c) If the Optionee ceases to be a Board Member because of the death of the Optionee or disability of the Optionee within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code, the Option, to the extent that it is exercisable on the Termination Date, may be exercised by the Optionee (or the Optionee's legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve months after the Termination Date, but in any event no later than the Expiration Date.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions in subsection 6(a) above, if (i) the Optionee ceases to be a Board Member, and (ii) options transactions are not permitted due to the "trading window" (as described in the Company's Policy on Securities Trades by Electronic Arts Personnel) being closed at the time the Optionee ceases to be a Board Member and remains closed during the entire Post-Termination Exercise Period (thereby preventing the immediate resale of Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option), then the Option, to the extent it is exercisable on the Termination Date, shall remain exercisable until ten (10) days after the date the Optionee is notified by the Company that the "trading window" has been opened; , that no Option will be exercisable later than the Expiration Date.
provided, however
7.
Manner of Exercise.
(a) The Option shall be exercisable by delivery to the Company of written notice in the form attached hereto as or in such other form as may be approved by the Board of Directors of the Company, which shall set forth the Optionee's election to exercise the Option, the number of Option Shares being purchased, and such other representations and agreements as to the Optionee's investment intent and access to information as may be required by the Company to comply with applicable securities laws.
Exhibit A,
(b) Such notice shall be accompanied by full payment of the Exercise Price (i) in cash; (ii) by tender of shares of Common Stock of the Company having a fair market value equal to the Exercise Price; or (iii) a combination of the foregoing, provided that a portion of the exercise price equal to the par value of the Shares, if any, must be paid in cash or other legal consideration.
(c) Prior to the issuance of the Option Shares upon exercise of the Option, the Optionee must pay or make adequate provision for any applicable federal, state, or provincial withholding obligations of the Company.
(d) Provided that such notice and payment are in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Company, the Company shall issue the Option Shares registered in the name of the Optionee or the Optionee's legal representative.
8. . The issuance and transfer of Option Shares shall be subject to compliance by the Company and the Optionee with all applicable requirements of federal and state laws and with all applicable requirements of any stock exchange or national market system on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed at the time of such issuance or transfer.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
9. . This Option may be transferred for estate or tax planning purposes only, provided that with respect to transfers of options for which the company will, in its reasonable option, forego or defer a tax deduction upon exercise of such option, Optionee may transfer a maximum under all Company option grants, options representing 100,000 shares. The terms of this Option shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, successors and assigns of the Optionee.
Transferability of Option
10. . Set forth below is a brief summary as of the date the form of grant was adopted of some of the federal and California tax consequences of exercise of the Option and disposition of the Shares. Additional information is included in the Prospectus for the Plan, as amended.
Tax Consequences
THIS SUMMARY IS NECESSARILY INCOMPLETE, AND THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. OPTIONEE SHOULD CONSULT A TAX ADVISER BEFORE EXERCISING THE OPTION OR DISPOSING OF THE SHARES.
(a) . Upon exercise, Optionee will recognize compensation income (taxable at ordinary income tax rates) equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the Shares on the date of exercise over the Exercise Price. The company may be required to withhold from Optionee's compensation or collect from Optionee and pay to the applicable taxing authorities an amount equal to a percentage of this compensation income at the time of exercise.
Exercise
(b) . For federal tax purposes, if the Shares are held for less than twelve (12) months after the date of transfer of the Shares pursuant to the exercise of a nonqualified stock option, any gain realized on the disposition of the Shares will be treated as a short-term capital gain. If the Shares are held for more than twelve (12) months any such gain will be treated as long-term capital gain.
Disposition of the Shares
11. . Any dispute regarding the interpretation of the Grant shall be submitted by Optionee, Optionee's employer, or the Company, forthwith to the Board or the Committee, which shall review such dispute at its next regular meeting. The resolution of such a dispute by the Board or Committee shall be final and binding on the Optionee, Optionee's employer, and/or the Company.
Authority of the Board and the Committee
12. . The Exercise Notice and Agreement attached as Exhibit A and the Plan available upon request from the Stock Administration department and also accessible electronically is incorporated herein by reference. The Grant, the Plan and the Exercise Notice and Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede all prior undertakings and agreements with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
Electronic Arts Inc.
209 Redwood Shores Parkway
Redwood City, CA 94065
Attention: Stock Administrator
1. . The undersigned (the "") hereby elects to exercise the Optionee's option to purchase shares of the Common Stock (the "") of Electronic Arts Inc. (the "") pursuant to the following grant (the "Grant"):
Exercise of Option
Optionee
Option Shares
Company
 
2. . The Optionee hereby acknowledges, represents, and warrants that the Optionee has received, read, and understood the Plan and the Grant; and will abide by and be bound by the respective terms and conditions.
Representations of Optionee
3. . The Optionee understands and acknowledges that the exercise of any rights to purchase any Option Shares is expressly conditioned upon compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, all applicable state securities laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange or national market system on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed, as they are in effect on the date of exercise. The Optionee agrees to cooperate with the Company to ensure compliance with such laws.
Compliance with Securities Laws
4. . The Optionee understands and agrees that the Company may issue appropriate "stop transfer" instructions to its transfer agent to ensure compliance with any restrictions on transfer required by applicable laws or regulations.
Stop Transfer Notices
5. . THE OPTIONEE UNDERSTANDS THAT THE OPTIONEE MAY SUFFER ADVERSE TAX CONSEQUENCES AS A RESULT OF THE OPTIONEE'S PURCHASE OR DISPOSITION OF THE OPTION SHARES. THE OPTIONEE REPRESENTS THAT THE OPTIONEE HAS CONSULTED WITH ANY TAX CONSULTANT(S) THAT THE OPTIONEE DEEMS NECESSARY IN CONNECTION WITH THE PURCHASE OR DISPOSITION OF THE OPTION SHARES; AND THAT THE OPTIONEE IS NOT RELYING ON THE COMPANY FOR ANY TAX ADVICE.
Tax Consequences
6. . The Optionee herewith delivers to the Company the aggregate exercise price of the Option Shares that the Optionee has elected to purchase. In addition to the aggregate exercise price, the Optionee herewith delivers to the Company the amount of, or has made adequate provisions for, the withholding of applicable income tax, social insurance, and other taxes.
Payment
7. . If the cashless method of exercise is used, payment of the aggregate exercise price shall be made through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which the Optionee provides irrevocable instructions to (a) a Company-designated brokerage firm to effect the immediate sale of the purchased shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate exercise price payable for the purchased shares plus all applicable income tax, social insurance, and other taxes required to be withheld by the Company by reason of such exercise; and (b) the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale.
Cashless Exercise
8. . This Exercise Notice and Agreement, the Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant, and the Plan constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede all prior undertakings and agreements with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
9. . This Exercise Notice and Agreement, the Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant, and the Plan shall be governed by, and subject to, the laws of the State of California, United States, except for that body of law pertaining to conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
 
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.
RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD
2000 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN
Electronic Arts Inc., a Delaware corporation, (the "Company") hereby grants to the Participant named above a Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "Award") consisting of Restricted Stock Units issued under the Company's 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), to receive the total number of units set forth below of the Company's Common Stock (the "Award Units"). The Award is subject to all the terms and conditions set forth herein, in the attached Appendix A, and in the Plan, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference. The principal features of the Award are as follows:
Vesting Schedule: Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and Appendix A, the Award shall vest as to [VESTING TERMS] on which Participant is, and has remained continuously since the Award Date, employed by the Company or a Subsidiary (or such later date as may result from suspended vesting as provided below). Vesting will continue in accordance with the Vesting Schedule during a leave of absence that is protected under local law (which may include, but is not limited to, a maternity, paternity, disability, medical, or military leave), provided that such vesting shall not exceed the maximum leave of absence period protected by local law. Vesting shall be suspended during any unpaid personal leave of absence, except as otherwise provided by local law.
PLEASE READ ALL OF APPENDIX A WHICH CONTAINS THE SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE AWARD.
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.
/s/ Stephen G. Ben
Stephen G. Ben
Senior Vice President, General Counsel
ACCEPTANCE:
Participant hereby acknowledges that a copy of the Plan and a copy of the Prospectus, as amended, are available upon request from the Company's Stock Administration department and can also be accessed electronically. Participant represents that Participant has read and understands the terms and conditions thereof, and accepts the Award subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Award. Participant acknowledges that there may be adverse tax consequences due to the Award and that Participant should consult a tax advisor to determine his or her actual tax consequences. Participant must accept this Award by executing and delivering a paper or electronic version to the Company within thirty (30) days otherwise the Company may, at its discretion, rescind the Award in its entirety.
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.
RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD (U.S. EMPLOYEES)
1. Award. Each Award Unit represents the unsecured right to receive one share of Electronic Arts Inc. common stock, $0.01 par value per share ("Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Restricted Stock Unit Award ("Award") and the Electronic Arts' 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"). In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
2. No Shareholder Rights. The Award does not entitle Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock. The rights of Participant with respect to the Award shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights become vested.
3. Conversion of Award Units; Issuance of Common Stock. No Shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant prior to the date on which the Award Units vest. After any Award Units vest, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued in book-entry form, registered in Participant's name or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be, Common Stock in payment of such vested whole Award Units; provided, however, that in the event such Award Units do not vest on a day during which the Company's Common Stock is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market (or traded on such other principal national securities market or exchange on which the Company's Common Stock may then be listed) ("Trading Day"), the Company shall cause such Common Stock to be issued on the next Trading Day following the date on which such Award Units vest; provided, further, that in no event shall the Company cause such Shares to be issued later than two (2) months after the date on which such Award Units vest. For purposes of this Award, the date on which vested Award Units are converted into Common Stock shall be referred to as the "Conversion Date."
4. Fractional Award Units. In the event Participant is vested in a fractional portion of an Award Unit (a "Fractional Portion"), such Fractional Portion shall not be converted into a Share or issued to Participant. Instead, the Fractional Portion shall remain unconverted until the final vesting date for the Award Units; provided, however, if Participant vests in a subsequent Fractional Portion prior to the final vesting date for the Award Units and such Fractional Portion taken together with a previous Fractional Portion accrued by Participant under this Award would equal or be greater than a whole Share, then such Fractional Portions shall be converted into one Share; provided, further, that following such conversion, any remaining Fractional Portion shall remain unconverted. Upon the final vesting date, the value of any remaining Fractional Portion(s) shall be rounded up to the nearest whole Award Unit at the same time as the conversion of the remaining Award Units and issuance of Common Stock described in section 3 above.
5. Restriction on Transfer. Neither the Award Units nor any rights under this Award may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of by Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any such purported sale, assignment, transfer, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition shall be void
and unenforceable against the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant may, in the manner established by the Committee, designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to exercise Participant's rights and receive any property distributable with respect to the Award Units upon Participant's death.
6. Termination of Employment.
(a) Forfeiture of Unvested Award Units Upon Termination of Employment, Other than Death or Disability. In the event that Participant's employment or service is Terminated for any reason other than death or Disability and the Award Units are not yet fully vested as of the date of Termination, then the unvested Award Units shall be forfeited immediately upon such Termination, as described in Section 8(k) below.
(b) Termination of Employment Due to Death or Disability. If the Participant's employment with the Company or Subsidiary is Terminated due to death or Disability after the first anniversary of the Award Date, a pro-rata portion of the Award Units, to the extent that the Award Units are partially vested on the Termination date (as described below), will be converted into Shares and issued to the Participant, or Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries, or heirs, as the case may be. If the Participant's employment with the Company or Subsidiary is Terminated due to death or Disability, before the first anniversary of the Award Date, the entire Award shall be forfeited. In determining the pro-rata portion of the Award Units that are vested on the Termination date, the Committee will consider the number of months worked by Participant during the 12-calendar month period preceding the next anniversary of the Award Date under the following formula:
Number of Award Units scheduled to vest on the next anniversary of the Award Date multiplied by [Number of calendar months worked by Participant during the 12-month period prior to the next anniversary of the Award Date] divided by 12
Participant shall be deemed to have worked a calendar month if Participant has worked any portion of that month. The Committee's determination of vested Award Units shall be in whole Award Units only and will be binding on the Participant.
7. Suspension of Award and Repayment of Proceeds for Contributing Misconduct. If at any time the Committee reasonably believes that a Participant, other than an Outside Director, has engaged in an act of misconduct, including, but not limited to an act of embezzlement, fraud or breach of fiduciary duty during the Participant's employment that contributed to an obligation to restate the Company's financial statements ("Contributing Misconduct"), the Committee may suspend the vesting of the Award pending a determination of whether an act of Contributing Misconduct has been committed. If the Committee determines that a Participant has engaged in an act of Contributing Misconduct, then the Award will terminate immediately upon such determination and the Committee may require Participant to repay to the Company, in cash and upon demand, the Award Proceeds (as defined below) resulting from any sale or other disposition (including to the Company) of Shares issued or issuable upon the vesting of the Award if the sale or disposition was effected during the twelve-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the SEC of the financial statements required to be restated. The term "Award Proceeds" means, with respect to any sale or other disposition (including to the Company) of Shares issued or
issuable upon vesting of Award Units, an amount determined appropriate by the Committee to reflect the effect of the restatement on the Company's stock price, up to the amount equal to the market value per Share at the time of such sale or other disposition multiplied by the number of Shares sold or disposed of. The return of Award Proceeds is in addition to and separate from any other relief available to the Company due to the Participant's Contributing Misconduct. Any determination by the Committee with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive and binding on all interested parties. For any Participant who is designated as an "executive officer", the determination of the Committee shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Directors.
8. Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and Award. In accepting the Award, Participant acknowledges that:
(a) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan;
(b) the Award is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of Award Units, or benefits in lieu of Award Units, even if Award Units have been granted repeatedly in the past;
(c) all decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(d) nothing in the Plan or the Award shall confer on Participant any right to continue in the employ of, or other relationship with, the Company or Participant's employer or limit in any way the right of the Company or Participant's employer to Terminate Participant's employment or service relationship at any time, with or without cause.
(e) Participant's participation in the Plan is voluntary;
(f) the Award Units are an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or Participant's employer, and which is outside the scope of Participant's employment or service contract, if any;
(g) the Award Units are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments and in no event may be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company or Participant's employer;
(h) in the event that Participant is not an employee of the Company, the Award and Participant's participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment or service contract or relationship with the Company; and furthermore, the Award will not be interpreted to form an employment or service contract or relationship with Participant's employer or any Subsidiary;
(i) the future value of the underlying Shares of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(j) in consideration of the Award, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of the Award Units or diminution in value of the Award Units or Shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the Award Units resulting from Termination of Participant's employment by the Company or Participant's employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and Participant irrevocably releases the Company and the Participant's employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by accepting the Award, Participant will be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue such claim;
(k) except as otherwise provided by the Committee, in the event of Termination of Participant's employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), Participant's right to receive an Award and vest in the Award Units under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that Participant is no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (e.g., active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law); the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when Participant is no longer actively employed for purposes of his or her Award;
(l) the Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding Participant's participation in the Plan, or Participant's acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares of Common Stock; and
(m) Participant is hereby advised to consult with his or her own tax, legal and financial advisors regarding Participant's participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
9. Tax Withholding. Regardless of any action the Company or Participant's employer takes with respect to any or all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other applicable taxes ("Tax Items") in connection with the Award, Participant hereby acknowledges and agrees that the ultimate liability for all Tax Items legally due by Participant is and remains the responsibility of the Participant.
Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Company and/or Participant's employer: (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Items in connection with any aspect of the Award, including, but not limited to, the grant or vesting of the Award Units, the subsequent sale of Shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and the receipt of any dividends; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the Award or any aspect of the Award to reduce or eliminate Participant's liability for Tax Items.
(a) Prior to delivery of Shares of Common Stock upon the vesting of the Award Units ("Award Shares"), Participant must pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or Participant's employer to satisfy all withholding obligations for Tax Items of the Company and/or Participant's employer. In this regard, Participant authorizes the Company and/or Participant's employer, at their discretion and if permissible under local
law, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax Items legally payable by Participant by one or a combination of the following:
(i) withholding Shares from the delivery of the Award Shares, provided that the Company only withholds a number of Shares with a Fair Market Value equal to or below the minimum withholding amount for Tax Items, provided, however, that in order to avoid issuing fractional Shares, the Company may round up to the next nearest number of whole Shares, as long as the Company issues no more than a single whole Share in excess of the minimum withholding obligation for Tax Items. For example, if the minimum withholding obligation for Tax Items is $225 and the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock is $50 per share, then the Company may withhold up to five (5) Shares from the delivery of Award Shares on the Conversion Date. The Company or the Participant's employer will remit the total amount withheld for Tax Items to the appropriate tax authorities; or
(ii) withholding from Participant's wages or other cash compensation paid to Participant by the Company and/or Participant's employer; or
(iii) selling or arranging for the sale of Award Shares.
The Participant shall pay to the Company or Participant's employer any amount of Tax Items that the Company or Participant's employer may be required to withhold as a result of Participant's participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by one or more of the means previously described. The Company may refuse to deliver the Award Shares if Participant fails to comply with his or her obligations in connection with the Tax Items as described in this section.
10. Compliance with Laws and Regulations. The issuance and transfer of Common Stock shall be subject to compliance by the Company and the Participant with all applicable requirements of federal and state laws and with all applicable requirements of any stock exchange or national market system on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed at the time of such issuance or transfer. The Company is not required to issue or transfer Common Stock if to do so would violate such requirements.
11. Data Privacy. Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her personal data as described in the Award and any other Award materials by and among, as applicable, Participant's employer, the Company and any Subsidiary for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Participant's participation in the Plan. Participant understands that the Company and Participant's employer may hold certain personal information about him or her, including, but not limited to, Participant's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all awards or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in Participant's favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data").
Participant understands that Data will be transferred to E*Trade Financial Services, Inc. or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by Participant or as may be
selected by the Company in the future, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. Participant understands that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipients' country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than Participant's country. Participant understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting Participant's local human resources representative. Participant authorizes the Company, E*Trade Financial Services, Inc. and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing Participant's participation in the Plan. Participant understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage Participant's participation in the Plan. Participant understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing Participant's local human resources representative. Participant understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect Participant's ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of Participant's refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Participant understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.
12. Electronic Delivery. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Award or future awards made under the Plan by electronic means or request Participant's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and, if requested, agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
13. Authority of the Board and the Committee. Any dispute regarding the interpretation of the Award shall be submitted by Participant, Participant's employer, or the Company, forthwith to either the Board or the Committee, which shall review such dispute at its next regular meeting. The resolution of such a dispute by the Board or Committee shall be final and binding on the Participant, Participant's employer, and/or the Company.
14. Deferral of Compensation. Payments made pursuant to this Plan and Award are intended to qualify for the "short-term deferral" exemption from Section 409A of the Code. The Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the Plan and/or this Award agreement to ensure that all Awards are made in a manner that qualifies for exemption from or complies with Section 409A of the Code, provided however, that the Company makes no representations that the Award will be exempt from Section 409A of the Code and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A of the Code from applying to this Award.
15. Governing Law and Choice of Venue. The Award as well as the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan shall be governed by, and subject to, the law of the State of California. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises directly or indirectly from the relationship of the parties evidenced by the Award, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of San Mateo County, California, or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California, and no other courts, where this grant is made and/or to be performed.
16. Captions. Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Award.
17. Agreement Severable. In the event that any provision in this Award agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Award agreement.
18. Entire Agreement. The Award, including this Appendix A and the Plan constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede all prior undertakings and agreements with respect to the subject matter hereof.
 
Electronic Arts Inc., a Delaware corporation, (the "") hereby grants to the Participant named above a Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "") with a deferral feature issued under the Company's 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the ""), to receive the total number of units set forth below of the Company's Common Stock (the ""). The Award is subject to all the terms and conditions set forth herein, in the attached Appendix A, and in the Plan, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference. The principal features of the Award are as follows:
Company
Award
Plan
Award Units
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and of Appendix A, the Award shall vest on the on the earlier of (i) the [NEXT SUBSEQUENT] Annual Meeting of Stockholders or (ii) 12 months from Award Date, provided in the case of either clause (i) or clause (ii) that the Participant is, and has remained continuously since the Award Date, in the service of the Company as a member of the Company's Board of Directors.
Vesting Schedule:
PLEASE READ ALL OF APPENDIX A WHICH CONTAINS THE SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD.
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.
ACCEPTANCE:
Participant hereby acknowledges that a copy of the Plan and a copy of the Prospectus, as amended, are available upon request from the Company's Stock Administration department and can also be accessed electronically. Participant represents that Participant has read and understands the terms and conditions thereof, and accepts the Award subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Award. Participant acknowledges that there may be adverse tax consequences due to the Award and that Participant should consult a tax advisor to determine his or her actual tax consequences.
Participant must accept this Award by executing and delivering a paper or electronic version to the Company within thirty (30) days otherwise the Company may, at its discretion, rescind the Award in its entirety.
1. . Each Award Unit represents the right to receive one share of Electronic Arts Inc. Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share (""), subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Restricted Stock Unit Award ("") and the Electronic Arts' 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the ""). In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
Award
Common Stock
Award
Plan
2. . The Award does not entitle Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock. The rights of Participant with respect to the Award shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights become vested.
No Shareholder Rights
3. .
Conversion of Award Units; Issuance of Common Stock
(a) No Shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant prior to the date on which the Award Units vest. After any Award Units vest, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued in book-entry form, registered in Participant's name or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be, Common Stock in payment of such vested whole Award Units; , that in the event such Award Units do not vest or are not otherwise distributable on a day during which the Company's Common Stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (or traded on such other principal national securities market or exchange on which the Company's Common Stock may then be listed) (""), the Company shall cause such Common Stock to be issued on the next Trading Day following the date on which such Award Units vest; , that in no event shall the Company cause such Shares to be issued later than two (2) months after the date on which such Award Units vest. For purposes of this Award, the date on which vested Award Units are converted into Common Stock shall be referred to as the "."
provided, however
Trading Day
provided, further
Conversion Date
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant may elect to defer payment of his or her Award Units. Any deferral election must be made no later than the last day of the calendar year preceding the year in which the Award is granted; , that a newly-eligible Participant may make a deferral election, provided that the election is made not more than thirty days after the Participant first becomes eligible for an Award under the Plan and applies only to that portion of the Award earned after the date the election is made.
provided, however
(c) An election to defer payment of Awards will remain in effect until Participant modifies or revokes the election. Participant may modify or revoke the deferral election with respect to payment of future Awards, provided that the modification or revocation of the election is made not later than last day of the calendar year preceding the year in which the modification or revocation will become effective.
(d) Participant shall indicate on his or her initial deferral election the date on which the Participant elects to receive payment of his or her deferred Awards, provided that payment shall be made on (i) the fifth anniversary of the date the Award Units vest, (ii) the tenth anniversary of the date the Award Units vest, or (iii) the date Participant Separates from Service. Shares subject to deferred Awards are paid in a lump sum within two (2) months of the elected payment date.
(e) Notwithstanding Participant's election to receive payment of his or her Award Units on the fifth or tenth anniversary of the vesting date, all Shares subject to vested Award Units shall be distributed within two (2) months following Participant's Separation from Service.
(f) For purposes of this Appendix A, "" means termination of service with the Company as described in Section 409A of the Code.
Separation from Service
(g) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or this Appendix A to the contrary, no distribution shall be made that would constitute an impermissible acceleration of payments as defined in Section 409A(a)(3) of the Code and regulations promulgated thereunder.
4. . Neither the Award Units nor any rights under this Award may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of by Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any such purported sale, assignment, transfer, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition shall be void and unenforceable against the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant may, in the manner established by the Committee, designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to exercise Participant's rights and receive any property distributable with respect to the Award Units upon Participant's death.
Restriction on Transfer
5. . Nothing in the Plan or the Award shall confer on Participant any right to continue in the service of, or other relationship with, the Company or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate Participant's service or other relationship at any time, with or without cause.
No Rights of Continued Service
6. . The Participant agrees and acknowledges that:
No Acquired Rights
(a) the Plan is discretionary and the Company can amend or cancel it at any time;
(b) participation in the Plan is voluntary and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future rights to Award Units or Shares;
(c) the right to Award Units or Shares under the Plan is not part of normal or expected compensation for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, bonuses, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, if applicable;
(d) the future value of the Shares awarded under the Plan is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and
(e) no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the termination of the right to receive Shares or diminution in value of the Shares awarded under the Plan and the Participant irrevocably releases the Company from any such claim that may arise.
7. .
Tax Withholding
(a) The Company will assess its requirements regarding tax, social insurance, and other applicable taxes ("") in connection with the Award. These requirements may change from time to time as laws or interpretations change. Regardless of the Company's actions in this regard, the Participant hereby acknowledges and agrees that the ultimate liability for Tax Items is the responsibility of the Participant. Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Company:
Tax Items
(i) makes no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Items in connection with any aspect of the Award, including the subsequent sale of Shares acquired under the Plan; and
(ii) does not commit to structure the terms of the Award or any aspect of the Award to reduce or eliminate the Participant's liability for Tax Items.
8. . Set forth below is a brief summary as of the date the form of Award was adopted of some of the federal tax consequences of the Award, the vesting or deferral of the Award Units, and disposition of the Award Shares. THIS SUMMARY IS NECESSARILY INCOMPLETE, AND THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. PARTICIPANT IS STRONGLY ADVISED TO CONSULT A TAX ADVISER.
Tax Consequences
(a) Vesting of Award Units. Upon the issuance of Award Shares to Participant following the vesting of Award Units or the deferral of the Award Units, Participant will recognize compensation income (taxable at ordinary income tax rates) equal to the Fair Market Value of the Award Shares on the Conversion Date.
(b) Disposition of the Award Shares. For federal tax purposes, if the Award Shares are held for twelve (12) months or less after the Conversion Date, any gain realized on the disposition of the Award Shares will be treated as a short-term capital gain. If the Award Shares are held for more than twelve (12) months any such gain will be treated as long-term capital gain.
(c) Section 409A of the Code imposes certain design and administrative rules on Restricted Stock Units with a deferral feature granted after December 31, 2004. If these rules are violated, deferred amounts will be subject to tax at ordinary income rates immediately upon such violation and will be subject to penalties equal to (i) 20% of the amount deferred and (ii) interest at a specified rate on the under-payment of tax that would have occurred had the deferred compensation been included in gross income in the taxable year in which it was first deferred.
9. .
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
(a) The issuance and transfer of Common Stock shall be subject to compliance by the Company and the Participant with all applicable requirements of federal and state laws and with all applicable requirements of any stock exchange or national market system on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed at the time of such issuance or transfer.
(b) The Award is intended to comply and shall be administered in a manner that is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. Payment under the Award shall be made in a manner that will comply with Section 409A of the Code, including regulations or other guidance issued with respect thereto, except as otherwise determined by the Committee. Any provision of the Award that would cause the payment or settlement thereof to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall be amended to comply with Section 409A of the Code on a timely basis, which may be made on a retroactive basis, in accordance with regulations and other guidance issued under Section 409A of the Code.
10. . Any dispute regarding the interpretation of the Award shall be submitted by Participant or the Company, forthwith to either the Board or the Committee, which shall review such dispute at its next regular meeting. The resolution of such a dispute by the Board or Committee shall be final and binding on the Participant and/or the Company.
Authority of the Board and the Committee
11. . The Award as well as the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan shall be governed by, and subject to, the law of the State of California.
Governing Law
12. . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction or this Award.
Captions
13. . In the event that any provision in this Award agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Award agreement.
Agreement Severable
14. .
Termination of the Award
(a) The Board, in its discretion, may terminate the deferral feature of the Award at any time and for any reason and may distribute the Shares subject to the deferred Award Units within the period beginning twelve months after the date the deferral feature is terminated and ending twenty-four months after the date the deferral feature is terminated, or pursuant to Section 3(d) or 3(e) if earlier. If the deferral feature of this Award is terminated and the Shares subject to the deferred Award Units are distributed, the Company shall terminate all substantially similar non-qualified deferred equity compensation arrangements with respect to all participants and shall not adopt a new, similar non-qualified deferred equity compensation arrangement for at least five years after the date the deferral feature is terminated, in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
(b) The deferral feature of this Award shall automatically terminate upon a dissolution of the Company that is taxed under Section 331 of the Code or with the approval of a bankruptcy court pursuant to 11 U.S.C. section 503(b)(1)(A), provided that the Shares subject to the deferred Award Units are distributed and included in the gross income of the Participant by the latest of (i) the calendar year in which the deferral feature is terminated or (ii) the first calendar year in which payment of the deferred Award Units is administratively practicable.
(c) The Board, in its discretion, may terminate the deferral feature of the Award thirty days prior to or twelve months following a Change in Control (as defined in Attachment 1) and distribute the Shares subject to the deferred Award Units within the twelve-month period following the termination of the deferral feature. If the deferral feature of the Award is terminated and the Shares subject to the deferred Award Units are distributed, the Company shall terminate all substantially similar non-qualified deferred equity compensation arrangements sponsored by the Company and all of the benefits of the terminated arrangements shall be distributed within twelve months following the termination of the arrangements.
15. . The Award, including this Appendix A, and the Plan constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede all prior undertakings and agreements with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
A "" means any one of the following events:
Change in Control
(i) Any one person, or more than one person acting as group, acquires ownership of stock of the Company that, together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company; provided, however, that if any one person or more than one person acting as a group, is considered to own more than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company, the acquisition of additional stock by the same person or persons is not considered to a cause a Change in Control of the Company;
(ii) Any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) ownership of stock of the Company possessing 35 percent or more of the total voting power of the stock of the Company;
(iii) A majority of the members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election, provided that for purposes of this paragraph no other corporation is a majority shareholder of the Company;
(iv) Any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from the Company that have a total gross fair market value equal to or more than 40 percent of the total gross fair market value of all assets of the Company immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions. For this purpose, gross fair market value means the value of the assets of the Company, or the value of the assets being disposed of, determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the definition of Change in Control is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code, Notice 2005-1, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and the definition of Change in Control shall be construed in a manner to so comply.
Name of Participant
Electronic Arts Inc., a Delaware corporation, (the "Company") hereby grants on the date hereof (the "Award Date") to the Participant named above a Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "Award") consisting of Restricted Stock Units issued under the Company's 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), to receive the total number of units set forth below of the Company's Common Stock (the "Award Units"). The Award is subject to all the terms and conditions set forth herein, in the attached Appendix A, Appendix B, Appendix C, Appendix D, Appendix E and in the Plan, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference. The principal features of the Award are as follows:
 
Vesting Schedule: Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Appendix A and this paragraph, the Award Units shall vest upon the certification by the Committee (as described below) of the attainment of the performance goals (the "Goals") set forth in Appendix C, provided Participant is, and has remained continuously since the Award Date through the Vesting Date (as defined below), employed by the Company or a Subsidiary (or such later date as may result from suspended vesting as provided below). Participant shall not be considered to have terminated employment for purposes of the vesting requirements during a leave of absence that is protected under local law (which may include, but is not limited to, a maternity, paternity, disability, medical, or military leave), provided that such period shall not exceed the maximum leave of absence period protected by local law. As soon as reasonably practicable following the Company's public release of quarter-end or year-end financial statements indicating that a Goal may have been achieved, the Committee shall determine and certify the attainment, if any, of each Goal based on the performance criteria that comprise the Goals and as further provided in the minutes of the Committee meeting in which the Goals were approved. Upon certification by the Committee of attainment of a Goal, the number of Award Units applicable to such Goal (as set forth in Appendix C) shall vest (the "Vesting Date") ; provided, however, that the Committee retains negative discretion to reduce any and all Award Units that would otherwise vest as a result of performance measured against the Award Goals. The Committee may not increase the number of Award Units that may vest as a result of the performance measured against the Award Goals.
PLEASE READ ALL OF APPENDIX A, APPENDIX B (IF ANY), APPENDIX C, APPENDIX D AND APPENDIX E WHICH CONTAIN THE SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE AWARD.
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.
/s/ Stephen G. Ben
Stephen G. Ben
Senior Vice President and General Counsel
ACCEPTANCE:
By accepting this Award and signing below, Participant hereby acknowledges and agrees that the terms and conditions set forth in this grant agreement, including appendices, supersedes the terms and conditions of the original grant agreement you received in connection with this Award. Further, Participant hereby acknowledges that a copy of the Plan and a copy of the Prospectus, as amended, are available upon request from the Company's Stock Administration department and can also be accessed electronically. Participant represents that Participant has read and understands the terms and conditions thereof, and accepts the Award subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Award, including appendices thereto. Participant acknowledges that there may be adverse tax consequences due to the Award and that Participant should consult a tax advisor to determine his or her actual tax consequences.
Participant must accept this Award by executing and delivering a paper or electronic version to the Company within thirty (30) days. Otherwise the Company may, at its discretion, rescind the Award in its entirety.
 
APPENDIX A
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.
RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD (NON-U.S. EMPLOYEES) , AS AMENDED
1. . Each Award Unit represents the unsecured right to receive one share of Electronic Arts Inc. common stock, $0.01 par value per share ("Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Restricted Stock Unit Award ("Award"), including Appendix B for Participant's country (if any) and the Electronic Arts' 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"). In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, including appendices thereto, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
Award
2. . The Award does not entitle Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock. The rights of Participant with respect to the Award shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights become vested.
No Shareholder Rights
3. . No Shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant prior to the Vesting Date. After any Award Units vest, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued in book-entry form, registered in Participant's name or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be, Common Stock in payment of such vested whole Award Units; provided, however, in no event shall the Company cause such Shares to be issued later than two (2) months after the Vesting Date. For purposes of this Award, the date on which vested Award Units are converted into Common Stock shall be referred to as the "Conversion Date."
Conversion of Award Units; Issuance of Common Stock
4. . In the event Participant is vested in a fractional portion of an Award Unit (a "Fractional Portion"), such Fractional Portion shall not be converted into a share or issued to Participant. Instead, the Fractional Portion shall remain unconverted until the final vesting date for the Award Units; provided, however, if Participant vests in a subsequent Fractional Portion prior to the final vesting date for the Award Units and such Fractional Portion taken together with a previous Fractional Portion accrued by Participant under this Award would equal or be greater than a whole Share, then such Fractional Portions shall be converted into one Share; provided, further, that following such conversion, any remaining Fractional Portion shall remain unconverted. Upon the final Vesting Date, the value of any remaining Fractional Portion(s) shall be rounded up to the nearest whole Award Unit at the same time as the conversion of the remaining Award Units and issuance of Common Stock described in section 3 above.
Fractional Award Units
5. . Neither the Award Units nor any rights under this Award may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise
Restriction on Transfer
 
disposed of by Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any such purported sale, assignment, transfer, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition shall be void and unenforceable against the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant may, in the manner established by the Committee, designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to exercise Participant's rights and receive any property distributable with respect to the Award Units upon Participant's death.
6. . Except as provided in Section 8(b) hereof, in the event that Participant's employment or service is Terminated for any reason, any unvested Award Units that are not yet vested as of the date of Termination shall be forfeited immediately upon such Termination, as described in Section 10(l) below.
Forfeiture Upon Termination of Employment
7. . Any Award Units that have not vested as of the expiration of the Performance Period shall be forfeited.
Forfeiture Upon Termination of Performance Period
8. If at any time the Committee reasonably believes that a Participant, other than an Outside Director, has engaged in an act of misconduct, including, but not limited to an act of embezzlement, fraud or breach of fiduciary duty during the Participant's employment that contributed to an obligation to restate the Company's financial statements ("Contributing Misconduct"), the Committee may suspend the vesting of the Award pending a determination of whether an act of Contributing Misconduct has been committed. If the Committee determines that a Participant has engaged in an act of Contributing Misconduct, then the Award will terminate immediately upon such determination and the Committee may require Participant to repay to the Company, in cash and upon demand, the Award Proceeds (as defined below) resulting from any sale or other disposition (including to the Company) of Shares issued or issuable upon the vesting of the Award if the sale or disposition was effected during the twelve-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the SEC of the financial statements required to be restated. The term "Award Proceeds" means, with respect to any sale or other disposition (including to the Company) of Shares issued or issuable upon vesting of Award Units, an amount determined appropriate by the Committee to reflect the effect of the restatement on the Company's stock price, up to the amount equal to the market value per Share at the time of such sale or other disposition multiplied by the number of Shares sold or disposed of. The return of Award Proceeds is in addition to and separate from any other relief available to the Company due to the Participant's Contributing Misconduct. Any determination by the Committee with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive and binding on all interested parties. For any Participant who is designated as an "executive officer", the determination of the Committee shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Directors.
Suspension of Award and Repayment of Proceeds for Contributing Misconduct
.
 
9. .
Change of Control
(a) Upon a Change of Control prior to the expiration of the Performance Period, any Award Units that are not vested as of the date of the Change of Control shall thereafter vest on June 30, 2013, and the Vesting Date and all requirements applicable thereto shall no longer have any force or effect for purposes of determining the vesting of the Award Units.
(b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary under the Electronic Arts Inc. Key Employee Continuity Plan (the "Continuity Plan") or subsection (a) above, and subject to the timely execution, return, and non-revocation of a Severance Agreement and Release, any Award Units that are not vested, shall automatically vest: (i) as of the date of the Participant's Termination of employment with the Company if such Termination occurs during the time period beginning on the Change of Control and ending on the first anniversary of the Change of Control; and provided further that the Termination is initiated by the Company without Cause, or by Participant for Good Reason (as these terms are defined in Appendix C); or (ii) as of the date of the Change of Control if a Participant's employment is Terminated during the two (2) months immediately preceding a Change of Control; and provided further that the Termination is initiated by the Company without Cause, and such Termination is made in connection with the Change of Control, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion; provided that in the case of either clause (i) or clause (ii) of this provision, such employment Termination meets the criteria for a "separation from service" as defined in Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(h).
10. . If Participant, upon taking into account the benefit provided under this Award and all other payments that would be deemed to be "parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code (collectively, the "280G Payments"), would be subject to the excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code, notwithstanding any provision of this Award to the contrary, Participant's benefit under this Award shall be reduced to an amount equal to (i) 2.99 times Participant's "base amount" (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code), (ii) minus the value of all other payments that would be deemed to be "parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code (but not below zero); provided, however, that the reduction provided by this sentence shall not be made if it would result in a smaller aggregate after-tax payment to Participant (taking into account all applicable federal, state and local taxes including the excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code). Participant's benefit hereunder shall be reduced prior to any benefit owing to Participant under the Continuity Plan may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.11 of the Continuity Plan. Unless the Company and Participant otherwise agree in writing, all determinations required to be made under this Section 9, and the assumptions to be used in arriving at such determinations, shall be made in writing in good faith by the accounting firm serving as the Company's independent public accountants immediately prior to the events giving rise to the payment of such benefits (the "Accountants"). For the purposes of making the calculations required under this Section 9, the Accountants may make reasonable assumptions and approximations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code. The Company shall bear all costs the Accountants may reasonably incur in connection with any calculations contemplated by this Section 9.
Section 280G Provision
 
11. . In accepting the Award, Participant acknowledges that:
Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and Award
(a) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature, and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan;
(b) the Award is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of Award Units, or benefits in lieu of Award Units, even if Award Units have been granted repeatedly in the past;
(c) all decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(d) nothing in the Plan or the Award shall confer on Participant any right to continue in the employ of, or other relationship with, the Company or Participant's employer or limit in any way the right of the Company or Participant's employer to Terminate Participant's employment or service relationship at any time, with or without cause;
(e) Participant's participation in the Plan is voluntary;
(f) the Award Units are an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or Participant's employer, and which is outside the scope of Participant's employment or service contract, if any;
(g) Reserved
(h) the Award Units are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments and in no event may be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company or Participant's employer;
(i) in the event that Participant is not an employee of the Company, the Award and Participant's participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment or service contract or relationship with the Company; and furthermore, the Award will not be interpreted to form an employment or service contract or relationship with Participant's employer or any Subsidiary;
 
(j) the future value of the underlying Shares of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(k) in consideration of the Award, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of the Award Units or diminution in value of the Award Units or Shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the Award Units resulting from Termination of Participant's employment by the Company or Participant's employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws), and Participant irrevocably releases the Company and Participant's employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by accepting the Award, Participant will be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue such claim;
(l) except as otherwise provided by the Committee or pursuant to Section 8(b) hereof, in the event of Termination of Participant's employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), Participant's right to receive an Award and vest in the Award Units under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that Participant is no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (e.g., active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law); the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when Participant is no longer actively employed for purposes of his or her Award;
(m) the Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding Participant's participation in the Plan, or Participant's acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares of Common Stock; and
(n) Participant is hereby advised to consult with his or her own tax, legal and financial advisors regarding Participant's participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
12. . Regardless of any action the Company or Participant's employer takes with respect to any or all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other applicable taxes ("Tax Items") in connection with the Award, Participant hereby acknowledges and agrees that the ultimate liability for all Tax Items legally due by Participant is and remains the responsibility of Participant.
Tax Withholding
(a) Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Company and/or Participant's employer: (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Items in connection with any aspect of the Award, including, but not limited to, the grant or vesting of the Award Units, the subsequent sale of Shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and the receipt of any dividends; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the Award or any aspect of the Award to reduce or eliminate Participant's liability for Tax Items.
 
(b) Prior to delivery of Shares of Common Stock upon the vesting of the Award Units ("Award Shares"), Participant must pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or Participant's employer to satisfy all withholding obligations for Tax Items of the Company and/or Participant's employer. In this regard, Participant authorizes the Company and/or Participant's employer, at their discretion and if permissible under local law, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax Items legally payable by Participant by one or a combination of the following:
(i) withholding Shares from the delivery of the Award Shares, provided that the Company only withholds a number of Shares with a Fair Market Value equal to or below the minimum withholding amount for Tax Items, provided, however, that in order to avoid issuing fractional Shares, the Company may round up to the next nearest number of whole Shares, as long as the Company issues no more than a single whole Share in excess of the minimum withholding obligation for Tax Items. For example, if the minimum withholding obligation for Tax Items is $225 and the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock is $50 per share, then the Company may withhold up to five (5) Shares from the delivery of Award Shares on the Conversion Date. The Company or Participant's employer will remit the total amount withheld for Tax Items to the appropriate tax authorities; or
(ii) withholding from Participant's wages or other cash compensation paid to Participant by the Company and/or Participant's employer; or
(iii) selling or arranging for the sale of Award Shares.
Participant shall pay to the Company or Participant's employer any amount of Tax Items that the Company or Participant's employer may be required to withhold as a result of Participant's participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by one or more of the means previously described. The Company may refuse to deliver the Award Shares if Participant fails to comply with his or her obligations in connection with the Tax Items as described in this section.
13. . The issuance and transfer of Common Stock shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Participant with all applicable requirements of federal, state and non-U.S. laws and with all applicable requirements of any stock exchange or national market system on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed at the time of such issuance or transfer. The Company is not required to issue or transfer Common Stock if to do so would violate such requirements.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
14. . Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her personal data as described in the Award and any other Award materials by and among, as applicable, Participant's employer, the Company and any Subsidiary for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Participant's participation in the Plan.
Data Privacy
 
Participant understands that the Company and Participant's employer may hold certain personal information about him or her, including, but not limited to, Participant's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all awards or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in Participant's favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data").
Participant understands that Data will be transferred to E*Trade Financial Services, Inc. or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by Participant or as may be selected by the Company in the future, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. Participant understands that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipients' country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than Participant's country. Participant understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting Participant's local human resources representative. Participant authorizes the Company, E*Trade Financial Services, Inc. and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing Participant's participation in the Plan. Participant understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage Participant's participation in the Plan. Participant understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing Participant's local human resources representative. Participant understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect Participant's ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of Participant's refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Participant understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.
15. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Award or future awards made under the Plan by electronic means or request Participant's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and, if requested, agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
Electronic Delivery
16. . Any dispute regarding the interpretation of the Award shall be submitted by Participant, Participant's employer, or the Company, forthwith to either the Board or the Committee, which shall review such dispute at its next regular meeting. The resolution of such a dispute by the Board or Committee shall be final and binding on Participant, Participant's employer, and/or the Company.
Authority of the Board and the Committee
 
17. . Payments made pursuant to this Plan and Award are intended to qualify for the "short-term deferral" exemption from Section 409A of the Code. The Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the Plan and/or this Award agreement to ensure that all Awards are made in a manner that qualifies for exemption from or complies with Section 409A of the Code, provided however, that the Company makes no representations that the Award will be exempt from Section 409A of the Code and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A of the Code from applying to this Award.
No Deferral of Compensation
18. . The Award as well as the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan shall be governed by, and subject to, the law of the State of California. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises directly or indirectly from the relationship of the parties evidenced by the Award, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of San Mateo County, California, or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California, and no other courts, where this grant is made and/or to be performed.
Governing Law and Choice of Venue
19. . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Award.
Captions
20. . If Participant has received this Award agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control unless otherwise prescribed by local law.
Language
21. . In the event that any provision in this Award agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Award agreement.
Agreement Severable
22. . The Award, including the appendices thereto, and the Plan constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede all prior undertakings and agreements with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
 
APPENDIX B
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.
2000 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN
RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD (NON-U.S. EMPLOYEES)
CANADA
Consent to Receive Information in English for Quebec Participants
The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that the Award, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.
Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig la rdaction en anglais de cette convention, ainsi que de tous documents excuts, avis donns et procdures judiciaries intentes, directement ou indirectement, relativement  ou suite  la prsente convention.
Award Units Payable Only in Shares
Award Units granted to Participants in Canada shall be paid in Shares only and do not provide any right for Participant to receive a cash payment, notwithstanding any discretion contained in the Plan, or any provision in the Award to the contrary.
SWEDEN
There are no country-specific provisions.
SWITZERLAND
Securities Law Information
The offering of RSUs is considered a private offering in Switzerland and is, therefore, not subject to registration in Switzerland.
 
APPENDIX C
PERFORMANCE PERIOD, PERFORMANCE GOALS AND PERFORMANCE MEASURE, AS AMENDED
Performance Period
The measurement period for the Award Units shall be the period beginning April 1, 2008 and ending on the last day of the fiscal quarter ending nearest to June 30, 2013 (the "Performance Period").
Performance Goals
The following Goals must be attained within the following time frames in order for the Participant to vest in the Award Units corresponding to the Goal: Goal 1 shall be attained if the entire Performance Measure requirement applicable to Goal 1 is achieved in its entirety over a period of four consecutive quarters ending no later than June 30, 2013. Goal 2 shall be attained if the entire Performance Measure requirement applicable to Goal 2 is achieved in its entirety over a period of four consecutive quarters ending no later than June 30, 2013. Goal 3 shall be attained if the entire Performance Measure requirement applicable to Goal 3 is achieved in its entirety over a period of four consecutive quarters ending no later than June 30, 2013.
 
 
 
Performance Measure
The Performance Measure shall equal "Net Income" as adjusted for Non-GAAP adjustments disclosed in the Company's Form 8-K (except for adjustments contemplated in the Form 8-K with respect to significant non-recurring items that may arise in the future unless disclosed below as "Additional Non-GAAP Adjustments") with respect to the release of the Company's quarterly earnings that was filed or furnished with the SEC immediately prior to the Award Date, and as adjusted in connection with a material acquisition of another company or business by the Company during the relevant 4-quarter measurement period ("Acquisition Adjustment"). The Acquisition Adjustment will be made if a portion of the purchase price is paid in stock and the total purchase price is in excess of $200 million, in which case the Performance Measure will be as calculated above, but shall be reduced by imputed interest on the amount equal to the fair value of such stock (as determined under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP")) (the "Acquisition Stock Imputed Interest"). The Acquisition Stock Imputed Interest shall be reduced by (i) any stock-based compensation accounting charge included within the purchase price pursuant to U.S. GAAP related to options, restricted stock and restricted stock units
 
assumed, and (ii) the value of any cash, cash equivalents, and short term securities on hand of the target as of the closing date. The imputed interest charge will be net of taxes. The imputed interest rate for each quarter will be 3-month LIBOR for such quarter. Additional Non-GAAP Adjustments include reversals of: acquisition-related costs related to a business combination as defined in SFAS No. 141 (revised); gains and losses on the sale of real estate; cumulative effect of accounting changes made in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and; impairment of long-lived assets made in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
 
APPENDIX D
SUPPLEMENTAL DEFINITIONS
"Cause" means (i) the continued failure by Participant to substantially perform Participant's duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from Participant's incapacity due to physical or mental illness), (ii) the engaging by Participant in conduct which is demonstrably injurious to the Company or any of its affiliates, monetarily or otherwise, (iii) Participant committing any felony or any crime involving fraud, breach of trust or misappropriation or (iv) any breach or violation of any agreement or written code of conduct relating to Participant's employment with the Company where the Company, in its sole discretion, determines that such breach or violation materially and adversely affects the Company or any of its affiliates.
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of an event as set forth in any one of the following paragraphs:
(i) any Person (as defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (A) the Company or any of its affiliates, (B) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (C) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or (D) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company) is or becomes the Beneficial Owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company other than securities acquired by virtue of the exercise of a conversion or similar privilege or right unless the security being so converted or pursuant to which such right was exercised was itself acquired directly from the Company) representing 50% or more of (X) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or (Y) the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
(ii) the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving on the Board (the "Incumbent Board"): individuals who, as of the date of this Award, constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including, without limitation, a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date of this Award, or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or
(iii) there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation
 
pursuant to which (A) the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation will continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof) more than 50% of the outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; (B) no Person will become the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof representing 50% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock or the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to such merger or consolidation); and (C) individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board will constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation (or any parent thereof) resulting from such merger or consolidation; or
(iv) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to an entity, (A) more than 50% of the outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of which (or of any parent of such entity) is owned by stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale; (B) in which (or in any parent of such entity) no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 50% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock resulting from such sale or disposition or the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to such sale or disposition); and (C) in which (or in any parent of such entity) individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board will constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors.
"Good Reason" means:
(i) the occurrence without Participant's written consent, of any of the following on or after the date of a Change of Control:
A. a change in the location of Participant's principal place of business by more than 50 miles when compared to Participant's principal place of business immediately before the Change of Control; and
B. (1) a more than 10% reduction in Participant's annual base salary in effect immediately before the Change of Control; (2) a more than 10% reduction in Participant's target annual bonus or incentive opportunity from that in effect immediately before the Change of Control, or (3) a more than 10% reduction in Participant's total target annual cash compensation, including without limitation, annual base salary and target annual bonus or incentive opportunity, from that in effect immediately before the Change of Control; and
(ii)
[This section (ii) should be included for the following employees: the CEO, CFO, Chief Human Resources Officer, Executive Vice President of Legal and Business Affairs,
 
the occurrence without the affected Participant's written consent, on or after the date of a Change of Control, of a material reduction in Participant's authority, duties, or responsibilities, including, without limitation, a material diminution in the authority, duties, or responsibilities of the supervisor to whom Participant is required to report, which shall include a requirement that a Participant report to a corporate officer or employee instead of reporting directly to the board of directors of a corporation (or similar governing body with respect to an entity other than a corporation), when compared to Participant's authority, duties, or responsibilities, or the authority, duties or responsibilities of the supervisor to whom Participant is required to report, immediately before the Change of Control.
Senior Vice President of Tax and Treasury, General Counsel and Chief Accounting Officer.]
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Good Reason shall exist only if the following conditions are met: (A) Participant gives the Company written notice of his or her intention to terminate employment with the Company for Good Reason; (B) such notice is delivered to the Company within 90 days of the initial existence of the condition giving rise to the right to terminate for Good Reason, and at least 30 days in advance of the date of termination; (C) the Company fails to cure the alleged Good Reason to the reasonable satisfaction of Participant prior to Participant's termination, and (D) the events described in the preceding sentence, singly or in combination, result in a material negative change in Participant's employment relationship with the Company, so that Participant's termination effectively constitutes an involuntary separation from service within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
"Severance Agreement and Release" means the written separation agreement and release substantially in the form set forth in Appendix E, as may be amended from time to time.
 
APPENDIX E
This SEVERANCE AGREEMENT AND RELEASE (this "") is made as of [], 200[], by and between Electronic Arts Inc., a Delaware corporation, with its principal place of business at 209 Redwood Shores Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065-1175 (which together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, if any, will hereinafter collectively be called "") and [], an individual residing at [] ("").
Agreement
            
    
Employer
            
            
Employee
Employee has been employed by Employer since on or about []. [Employer and Employee have entered into a New Hire/Proprietary Information Agreement dated as of [] (the "")]
A.
            
            
New Hire/Proprietary Information Agreement
1
The Electronic Arts Inc. Key Employee Continuity Plan (as such plan may be amended from time to time, the "") and the Electronic Arts Inc. Restricted Stock Unit Award (""), dated [] sets forth certain rights, benefits and obligations of the parties arising out of Employee's employment by Employer and the severance of such employment in connection with a Change in Control as determined in accordance with the Plan and Award.
B.
Plan
Award
            
Employee recognizes that this Agreement will automatically be revoked and Employee shall forfeit any benefit to which he or she may be entitled under the Plan and Award unless Employee submits an executed copy of this Agreement [or similar agreement to be provided to persons employed by the Company outside the United States] to the Employer on or before [].
C.
            
in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants set forth below, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Employer and Employee agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
1. The relationship between Employee and Employer shall terminate as of (the ""). [Note that Separation Date cannot be later than the date the agreement is signed or the release will not provide the Company with full protection.]
.
Termination of Employment Relationship
            
Separation Date
2. . In consideration of Employee's undertakings set forth in this Agreement, Employer will pay Employee $[] in accordance with the terms of the Plan, plus such other benefits as are provided under the terms of the Plan, the Award and this Agreement. Such payment and benefits will be less all applicable deductions (including, without limitation, any federal, state or local tax withholdings). Such payment and benefits are contingent upon the execution of this Agreement by Employee and Employee's compliance with all terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Plan and Award. Employee agrees that if this Agreement does not become effective, Employer shall not be
Employee Severance
            
 
 
required to make any further payments or provide any further benefits to Employee pursuant to this Agreement, the Plan and Award and shall be entitled to recover all payments and be reimbursed for all benefits already made or provided by it (including interest thereon). Except for Employee's final paycheck and the amounts and benefits set forth herein and in the Plan, Employee acknowledges and agrees that Employer has already paid Employee any and all wages, salary, benefit payments and/or other payments owed to Employee from Employer, and that no further payments, amounts or benefits are owed or will be owed.
3. In consideration of the obligations of Employer described in Paragraph 2 above, Employee hereby completely releases and forever discharges Employer, its related corporations, divisions and entities, its predecessors, successors, and assigns, and its and each of their officers, directors, employees and agents, (collectively referred to as the "") from all claims, rights, demands, actions, liabilities and causes of action of any kind whatsoever, known and unknown, which Employee may have or have ever had against the Releasees ("") including without limitation all claims arising from or connected with Employee's employment by the Employer, whether based in tort or contract (express or implied) or on federal, state or local law or regulation. Employee has been advised that Employee's release does not apply to any rights or claims that may arise after the date that this Agreement is signed by the Employee (the ""). This Agreement shall not affect Employee's rights under the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act to have a judicial determination of the validity of the release contained herein. [.]
.
Release of Employer
Releasees
claims
Effective Date
Note: release to be reviewed in each case for purposes of compliance with laws of applicable jurisdiction
4. . Employee understands and agrees that this is a final release and that Employee is waiving all rights now or in the future to pursue any remedies available under any employment related cause of action against the Releasees, including without limitation claims of wrongful discharge, emotional distress, defamation, harassment, discrimination, retaliation, breach of contract or covenant of good faith and fair dealing, claims of violation of the California Labor Code and claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, the Civil Rights Act of 1866, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (the ""), the Family and Medical Leave Act, the California Family Rights Act, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, and any other laws and regulations relating to employment. Employee further acknowledges and agrees that Employee has received all leave to which Employee is entitled under all federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to leave from employment, including, but not limited to, the Family and Medical Leave Act, the California Family Rights Act, and California worker's compensation laws. [.]
Acknowledgment
ADEA
Note: release to be reviewed in each case for purposes of compliance with laws of applicable jurisdiction
5. Employee hereby expressly waives the provision of California Civil Code Section 1542 which provides as follows:
.
Waiver of California Civil Code
A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his/her favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him/her must have materially affected his/her settlement with the debtor.
Employee acknowledges that the waiver of this Section of the California Civil Code set forth above is an essential and material term of this release, and that Employee has read this provision, and intends these consequences even as to unknown claims which may exist at the time of this release.
 
6. . Employee represents that Employee has not filed or commenced any proceeding against the Releasees and agrees that at no time in the future will Employee file or maintain any charge, claim or action of any kind, nature and character whatsoever against the Releasees, or cause or knowingly permit any such charge, claim or action to be filed or maintained, in any federal, state or municipal court, administrative agency or other tribunal, arising out of any of the matters covered by Paragraph 3 above, except as provided in the following sentence. Notwithstanding Employee's release and waiver of remedies under the ADEA, this Agreement and the above covenant not to sue do not affect enforcement of the ADEA by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ("EEOC"), nor preclude Employee from (i) filing an ADEA charge with the EEOC, (ii) participating in an ADEA investigation or proceeding conducted by the EEOC, or (iii) initiating a proceeding regarding the enforceability of this Agreement with respect to ADEA rights and remedies. If Employee initiates any lawsuit or other legal proceeding in contravention of this covenant not to sue (other than a proceeding regarding the enforceability of this Agreement with respect to ADEA rights and remedies), Employee shall be required to immediately repay to Employer the full consideration paid to Employee pursuant to Paragraph 2 above, regardless of the outcome of Employee's legal action.
Covenant Not to Sue
7. Employee will maintain the fact and terms of this Agreement and any payments made by Employer in strict confidence and will not disclose the same to any other person or entity (except Employee's legal counsel, spouse and accountant) without the prior written consent of Employer. The parties agree that this confidentiality provision is a material term of this Agreement. A violation of the promise of nondisclosure shall be a material breach of this Agreement. It is acknowledged that in the event of such a violation, it will be impracticable or extremely difficult to calculate the actual damages and, therefore, the parties agree that upon a breach, in addition to whatever rights and remedies Employer may have at law and in equity, Employee will pay to Employer as liquidated damages, and not as a penalty, the sum of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) for each such breach and each repetition thereof.
.
Nondisclosure of Agreement
[8. .
Return of Property; Confidentiality; Inventions
2
(a) Employee represents that Employee does not have in Employee's possession any records, documents, specifications, or any confidential material or any equipment or other property of Employer.
(b) Employee represents that Employee has complied with and will continue to comply with Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the New Hire/Proprietary Information Agreement pertaining to Proprietary Information (as defined therein), and will preserve as confidential all confidential information pertaining to the business of Employer and its customers and licensees.
(c) Employee represents that Employee has complied with and will continue to comply with Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the New Hire/Proprietary Information Agreement pertaining to Inventions (as defined therein).]
 
 
 
[8. .
Return of Property; Confidentiality; Inventions
(a) Employee represents that Employee does not have in Employee's possession any records, documents, specifications, or any confidential material or any equipment or other property of Employer.
(b) Employee understands and acknowledges that all Proprietary Information (as defined below) is the sole property of Employer and its assigns. Employee hereby assigns to Employer any rights Employee may have in all Proprietary Information. At all times, Employee shall keep in confidence and trust all Proprietary Information, and Employee will not use or disclose any Proprietary Information or anything relating to it without the prior written consent of Employer. Employee represents that Employee has delivered to Employer all materials, documents and data of any nature containing or pertaining to any Proprietary Information and has not taken and will not take with Employee any such materials, documents or data or any reproduction thereof. "" means any information of a confidential or secret nature that may have been learned or developed by Employee during the period of Employee's employment by Employer and which (i) relates to the business of Employer or to the business of any customer or supplier of Employer, or (ii) has been created, discovered or developed by, or has otherwise become known to Employer and has commercial value in the business in which Employer is engaged. By way of illustration, but not limitation, Proprietary Information includes trade secrets, processes, formulas, computer programs, data, know-how, inventions, improvements, techniques, marketing plans, product plans, strategies, forecasts, personnel information and customer lists.
Proprietary Information
(c) Employee represents that Employee has disclosed or will disclose in confidence to Employer, or any persons designated by it, all Inventions (as defined below) that have been made or conceived or first reduced to practice by Employee during Employee's employment with Employer (or thereafter if Invention uses Proprietary Information of Employer). All such Inventions are the sole and exclusive property of Employer and its assigns, and Employer and its assigns shall have the right to use and/or to apply for patents, copyrights or other statutory or common law protections for such Inventions in any and all countries. Employee agrees to assist Employer in every proper way (but at Employer's expense) to obtain and from time to time enforce patents, copyrights and other statutory or common law protections for such Inventions in any and all countries. To that end, Employee has executed or will execute all documents for use in applying for and obtaining such patents, copyrights and other statutory or common law protections therefore and enforcing same, as Employer may desire, together with any assignments thereof to Employer or to persons designated by Employer. Employer shall compensate Employee at a reasonable rate for any time after the Separation Date actually spent by Employee at Employer's request on such assistance. "" means all inventions, improvements, original works or authorship, formulas, processes, computer programs, techniques, know-how and data, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, made or conceived or first reduced to practice or learned by Employee, whether or not in the course of Employee's employment.
Inventions
[(d) Employee has been notified and understands that the provisions of Paragraph 8(c) above do not apply to an Invention which qualifies fully under the provisions of Section 2870 of the California Labor Code, which states as follows:
(i) Any provision in an employment agreement which provides that an employee shall assign, or offer to assign, any of his or her rights in an invention to his or her employer shall not apply to an invention that the employee developed
 
entirely on his or her own time without using the employer's equipment, supplies, facilities, or trade secret information except for those inventions that either:
 
 
(ii) To the extent a provision in an employment agreement purports to require an employee to assign an invention otherwise excluded from being required to be assigned under subdivision (i), the provision is against the public policy of this state and is unenforceable.]
3
]
4
9. . Without limiting the foregoing, Employee agrees that Employee will not make statements or representations to any other person, entity or firm which may cast Employer, or its directors, officers, agents or employees, in an unfavorable light, which are offensive, or which could adversely affect Employer's name or reputation or the name or reputation of any director, officer, agent or employee of Employer. The parties agree that the provisions of this Paragraph 9 are material terms of this Agreement.
Non-Disparagement
10. . Employee agrees that Employee will cooperate with Employer, its agents, and its attorneys with respect to any matters in which Employee was involved during Employee's employment with Employer or about which Employee has information, will provide upon request from Employer all such information or information about any such matter, and will be available to assist with any litigation or potential litigation relating to Employee's actions as an employee of Employer.
Cooperation with Employer
11. . [In accordance with the terms of the New Hire/Proprietary Information Agreement, until]
Non-Solicitation
5
/[Until]
6
the [first] anniversary of the Separation Date, Employee agrees not to recruit, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any employee or employees of Employer to terminate their employment with, or otherwise cease their relationship with, Employer.
12. . This Agreement, and any of the rights hereunder, may not be assigned or otherwise transferred, in whole or in part by Employee.
No Assignment By Employee
13. . Any and all controversies arising out of or relating to the validity, interpretation, enforceability, or performance of this Agreement will be solely and finally settled by means of binding arbitration. Any arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the then-current Employment Dispute Resolution Rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitration will be final, conclusive and binding upon the parties.
Arbitration
 
 
All arbitrator's fees and related expenses shall be divided equally between the parties. Further, each party shall bear its own attorney's fees and costs incurred in connection with the arbitration.
14.
Equitable Relief
. Each party acknowledges and agrees that a breach of any term or condition of this Agreement may cause the non-breaching party irreparable harm for which its remedies at law may be inadequate. Each party hereby agrees that the non-breaching party will be entitled, in addition to any other remedies available to it at law or in equity, to seek injunctive relief to prevent the breach or threatened breach of the other party's obligations hereunder. Notwithstanding Paragraph 13, above, the parties may seek injunctive relief through the civil court rather than through private arbitration if necessary to prevent irreparable harm.
15. . The execution of this Agreement and the performance of its terms shall in no way be construed as an admission of guilt or liability by either Employee or Employer. Both parties expressly disclaim any liability for claims by the other.
No Admission
16. . Employee has been advised to consult an attorney before signing this Agreement. Employee acknowledges that Employee has been given the opportunity to consult counsel of Employee's choice before signing this Agreement, and that Employee is fully aware of the contents and legal effect of this Agreement. Employee acknowledges that Employer has provided Employee with a list, which is Attachment A to this Agreement, of the job titles and ages of all employees being terminated on the Separation Date as well as the ages of the employees with the same titles who are not being terminated (""). Employee has been given [21/45] days from receipt of the OWBPA Information to consider this Agreement.
Consultation With Counsel and Time to Consider
OWBPA Information
17.
Right to Revoke.
(a) Employee and Employer have seven days from the date Employee signs this Agreement to revoke it in a writing delivered to the other party. After that seven-day period has elapsed, this Agreement is final and binding on both parties.
(b) Employee acknowledges and understands that if Employee fails to provide the Employer with an executed copy of this Agreement by the date indicated in paragraph C on the first page of this Agreement, Employer's offer to enter into this Agreement and/or its execution of this Agreement is automatically revoked and Employee shall forfeit all rights under the Plan and Award.
18. . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this Agreement shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under the laws and public policies applied in each jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. Accordingly, although Employer and Employee consider the restrictions contained in this Agreement to be reasonable for the purpose of preserving Employer's goodwill and proprietary rights, if any provision or portion of this Agreement shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the remaining provisions or portions of this Agreement shall be unaffected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Severability
 
19. . This Agreement together with the Plan, Award [and the New Hire/Proprietary Information Agreement]
Entire Agreement
7
represents the complete understanding of Employee and Employer with respect to the subject matter herein.
20. . Notices or other communications given pursuant to this Agreement shall be given in accordance with the Plan.
Notices
21. . This Agreement will be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of [].
Governing Law
            
22. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
 
 
BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, YOU STATE THAT:
(a) YOU HAVE READ THIS AGREEMENT AND HAVE HAD SUFFICIENT TIME TO CONSIDER ITS TERMS;
(b) YOU UNDERSTAND ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT AND KNOW THAT YOU ARE GIVING UP IMPORTANT RIGHTS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THOSE ARISING UNDER THE ADEA;
(c) YOU AGREE WITH EVERYTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT;
(d) YOU ARE AWARE OF YOUR RIGHT TO CONSULT WITH AN ATTORNEY BEFORE SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT AND HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF SUCH RIGHT;
(e) YOU HAVE SIGNED THIS AGREEMENT KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY; AND
(f) THIS AGREEMENT INCLUDES A RELEASE BY YOU OF ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS AS OF ITS EFFECTIVE DATE, AND NO CLAIMS ARISING AFTER ITS EFFECTIVE DATE ARE WAIVED OR RELEASED IN THIS AGREEMENT.
 
 
 
This notice contains the information that is required to be provided to you by the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act.
The following is a listing of the job titles and ages of (a) persons who were selected for termination and offered enhanced severance benefits for signing the Severance Agreement and Release, and (b) all individuals in the same job classification or organizational unit who were not selected:
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
1. . Electronic Arts Inc., (the "") proposes to grant options for purchase of the Company's Common Stock to eligible employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to this 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the ""). For purposes of this Plan, "parent corporation" and "Subsidiary" (collectively, "Subsidiaries") shall have the same meanings as "parent corporation" and "subsidiary corporation" in Sections 424(e) and 424(f), respectively, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The Company intends that the Plan shall feature two components: (i) an "employee stock purchase plan" under Section 423 of the Code (including any amendments or replacements of such section) for participants residing in the U.S., and (ii) an "employee stock purchase plan" that is intended to grant purchase rights under rules, procedures or sub-plans that are not intended to qualify Section 423 of the Code for participants that are not residing in the U.S. Any term not expressly defined in the Plan but defined for purposes of Section 423 of the Code shall have the same definition herein. A total of 12,800,000 shares of Common Stock are reserved for issuance under the Plan. Such number shall be subject to adjustments effected in accordance with Section 14 of the Plan.
Establishment of Plan
Company
Plan
2. . The purpose of the Plan is to provide employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries designated by the Board of Directors as eligible to participate in the Plan with a convenient means to acquire an equity interest in the Company through payroll deductions, to enhance such employees' sense of participation in the affairs of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and to provide an incentive for continued employment.
Purposes
3. . This Plan may be administered by the Board or a committee appointed by the Board (the ""). The Plan shall be administered by the Board or a committee appointed by the Board consisting of not less than three (3) persons (who are members of the Board), each of whom is a disinterested director. As used in this Plan, references to the "Committee" shall mean either the committee appointed by the Board to administer this Plan or the Board if no committee has been established. Subject to the provisions of the Plan and the limitations of Section 423 of the Code or any successor provision in the Code, if applicable, all questions of interpretation or application of the Plan shall be determined by the Committee and its decisions shall be final and binding upon all participants. Members of the Committee shall receive no compensation for their services in connection with the administration of the Plan, other than standard fees as established from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company for services rendered by Board members serving on Board committees. All expenses incurred in connection with the administration of the Plan shall be paid by the Company.
Administration
Committee
4. . Any employee of the Company or the Subsidiaries is eligible to participate in an Offering Period (as hereinafter defined) under the Plan except the following:
Eligibility
(a) employees who are not employed by the Company or its Subsidiaries on the fifteenth (15th) day of the month before the beginning of such Offering Period;
(b) employees who, together with any other person whose stock would be attributed to such employee pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code, own stock or hold options to purchase stock or who, as a result of being granted an option under the Plan with respect to such Offering Period, would own stock or hold options to purchase stock possessing five (5) percent or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; and
(c) employees who would, by virtue of their participation in such Offering Period, be participating simultaneously in more than one Offering Period under the Plan.
 
For employees of Subsidiaries located in the U.S., the following would not be eligible to participate in an Offering Period:
(a) employees who are customarily employed for less than 20 hours per week, and
(b) employees who are customarily employed for less than five (5) months in a calendar year.
5. . The Offering Periods of the Plan (the "Offering Period") shall be of twelve (12) months duration commencing on the first business day of March and September of each year and ending on the last business day of February and August, respectively, hereafter. The first Offering Period shall commence on September 1, 2000. The first day of each Offering Period is referred to as the "Offering Date". Each Offering Period shall consist of two (2) six-month purchase periods (individually, a "Purchase Period"), during which payroll deductions of the participant are accumulated under this Plan. Each such six-month Purchase Period shall commence on the first business day of March and September of an Offering Period and shall end on the last business day of the following August and February, respectively. The last business day of each Purchase Period is hereinafter referred to as the Purchase Date. The Board of Directors of the Company shall have the power to change the duration of Offering Periods or Purchase Periods without stockholder approval if such change is announced at least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled beginning of the first Offering Period or Purchase Period, as the case may be, to be affected.
Offering Dates
6. . Eligible employees may become participants in an Offering Period under the Plan on the first Offering Date after satisfying the eligibility requirements by delivering to the Company's or Subsidiary's (whichever employs such employee) payroll department (the "payroll department") not later than the 15th day of the month before such Offering Date unless a later time for filing the subscription agreement is set by the Board for all eligible Employees with respect to a given Offering Period a subscription agreement authorizing payroll deductions. An eligible employee who does not deliver a subscription agreement to the payroll department by such date after becoming eligible to participate in such Offering Period under the Plan shall not participate in that Offering Period or any subsequent Offering Period unless such employee enrolls in the Plan by filing the subscription agreement with the payroll department not later than the 15th day of the month preceding a subsequent Offering Date. Once an employee becomes a participant in an Offering Period, such employee will automatically participate in the Offering Period commencing immediately following the last day of the prior Offering Period unless the employee withdraws from the Plan or terminates further participation in the Offering Period as set forth in Section 11 below. Such participant is not required to file any additional subscription agreements in order to continue participation in the Plan. Any participant whose option expires and who has not withdrawn from the Plan pursuant to Section 11 below will automatically be re-enrolled in the Plan and granted a new option on the Offering Date of the next Offering Period. A participant in the Plan may participate in only one Offering Period at any time.
Participation in the Plan
In jurisdictions where payroll deductions are not permitted under local law, the eligible employees may participate in the Plan by making contributions in the form that is acceptable and approved by the Board or Committee.
7. . Enrollment by an eligible employee in the Plan with respect to an Offering Period will constitute the grant (as of the Offering Date) by the Company to such employee of an option to purchase on each Purchase Date up to that number of shares of Common Stock of the Company determined by dividing the amount accumulated in such employee's payroll deduction account during such Purchase Period by the lower of (i) eighty-five percent (85%) of the fair market value of a share of the Company's Common Stock on the Offering Date (the "Entry Price") or (ii) eighty-five percent (85%) of the fair market value of a share of the Company's Common Stock on the Purchase Date, provided, however, that the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock subject to any option granted pursuant to this Plan shall not exceed the lesser of (a) the maximum number of shares set by the Board pursuant to Section 10(c) below with respect to all Purchase Periods within the applicable Offering Period or Purchase Period, or (b) 200% of the number of shares determined by using 85% of the fair market value of a share of the Company's Common Stock on the Offering Date as the denominator. Fair market value of a share of the Company's Common Stock shall be determined as provided in Section 8 hereof.
Grant of Option on Enrollment
 
8. . The purchase price per share at which a share of Common Stock will be sold in any Offering Period shall be eighty-five percent (85%) of the lesser of:
Purchase Price
(a) the fair market value on the Offering Date, or
(b) the fair market value on the Purchase Date.
For purposes of the Plan, the term "fair market value" on a given date shall mean the closing bid from the previous day's trading of a share of the Company's Common Stock as reported on the NASDAQ National Market System.
9. .
Payment of Purchase Price; Changes in Payroll Deductions; Issuance of Shares
(a) The purchase price of the shares is accumulated by regular payroll deductions made during each Purchase Period. The deductions are made as a percentage of the employee's compensation in one percent (1%) increments not less than two percent (2%) nor greater than ten percent (10%). Compensation shall mean base salary, commissions, overtime, performance bonuses, discretionary bonuses, stay bonuses, referral bonuses, sabbatical cash outs, shift differentials, and such other forms of compensation as the Committee, in the exercise of its discretion under the Plan, may designate as subject to payroll deductions for purposes of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Compensation shall not include car benefits/allowances, income derived from stock options, equity-based compensation, or payments made in connection with termination (including, but not limited to, holiday accrual cash outs, severance pay, separation pay, or ex gratia payments). Payroll deductions shall commence with the first pay period following the Offering Date and shall continue to the end of the Offering Period unless sooner altered or terminated as provided in the Plan.
(b) A participant may lower (but not increase) the rate of payroll deductions during a Purchase Period by filing with the payroll department a new authorization for payroll deductions, in which case the new rate shall become effective for the next payroll period commencing more than 15 days after the payroll department's receipt of the authorization and shall continue for the remainder of the Offering Period unless changed as described below. Such change in the rate of payroll deductions may be made at any time during an Offering Period, but not more than one change may be made effective during any Purchase Period. A participant may increase or lower the rate of payroll deductions for any subsequent Purchase Period by filing with the payroll department a new authorization for payroll deductions not later than the 15th day of the month before the beginning of such Purchase Period.
(c) Subject to the laws of the local jurisdiction, all payroll deductions made for a participant are credited to his or her account under the Plan and are deposited with the general funds of the Company; no interest accrues on the payroll deductions. Subject to the laws of the local jurisdiction, all payroll deductions received or held by the Company may be used by the Company for any corporate purpose, and the Company shall not be obligated to segregate such payroll deductions.
(d) On each Purchase Date, as long as the Plan remains in effect and provided that the participant has not submitted a signed and completed withdrawal form before that date which notifies the Company that the participant wishes to withdraw from that Offering Period under the Plan and have all payroll deductions accumulated in the account maintained on behalf of the participant as of that date returned to the participant, the Company shall apply the funds then in the participant's account to the purchase of whole shares of Common Stock reserved under the option granted to such participant with respect to the Offering Period to the extent that such option is exercisable on the Purchase Date. The purchase price per share shall be as specified in Section 8 of the Plan. Any cash remaining in a participant's account after such purchase of shares shall be refunded to such participant in cash; provided, however, that any amount remaining in participant's account on a Purchase Date which is less than the amount necessary to purchase a full share of Common Stock of the Company shall be carried forward, without interest, into the next Purchase Period or Offering Period, as the case may be. In the event that the Plan has been oversubscribed, all funds not used to purchase shares on the Purchase Date shall be returned to the participant. No Common Stock shall be purchased on a Purchase Date on behalf of any employee whose participation in the Plan has terminated prior to such Purchase Date.
 
(e) As promptly as practicable after the Purchase Date, the Company shall arrange the delivery to each participant, as appropriate, of a certificate representing the shares purchased upon exercise of his option; provided that the Board may deliver certificates to a broker or brokers that hold such certificates in street name for the benefit of each such participant.
(f) During a participant's lifetime, such participant's option to purchase shares hereunder is exercisable only by him or her. The participant will have no interest or voting right in shares covered by his or her option until such option has been exercised. Shares to be delivered to a participant under the Plan will be registered in the name of the participant or in the name of the participant and his or her spouse.
10. .
Limitations on Shares to be Purchased
(a) No employee shall be entitled to purchase stock under the Plan at a rate which, when aggregated with his or her rights to purchase stock under all other employee stock purchase plans of the Company or any Subsidiary, exceeds US$25,000 in fair market value, determined as of the Offering Date (or such other limit as may be imposed by the Code) for each calendar year in which the employee participates in the Plan.
(b) No more than 200% of the number of shares determined by using 85% of the fair market value of a share of the Company's Common Stock on the Offering Date as the denominator may be purchased by a participant on any single Purchase Date.
(c) No employee shall be entitled to purchase more than the Maximum Share Amount (as defined below) on any single Purchase Date. Not less than thirty days prior to the commencement of any Purchase Period, the Board may, in its sole discretion, set a maximum number of shares which may be purchased by any employee at any single Purchase Date (hereinafter the "Maximum Share Amount"). In no event shall the Maximum Share Amount exceed the amounts permitted under Section 10(b) above. If a new Maximum Share Amount is set, then all participants must be notified of such Maximum Share Amount not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the commencement of the next Purchase Period. Once the Maximum Share Amount is set, it shall continue to apply with respect to all succeeding Purchase Dates and Purchase Periods unless revised by the Board as set forth above.
(d) If the number of shares to be purchased on a Purchase Date by all employees participating in the Plan exceeds the number of shares then available for issuance under the Plan, the Company shall make a pro rata allocation of the remaining shares in as uniform a manner as shall be practicable and as the Board shall determine to be equitable. In such event, the Company shall give written notice of such reduction of the number of shares to be purchased under a participant's option to each employee affected thereby.
(e) Any payroll deductions accumulated in a participant's account which are not used to purchase stock due to the limitations in this Section 10 shall be returned to the participant as soon as practicable after the end of the Offering Period.
11. .
Withdrawal
(a) Each participant may withdraw from an Offering Period under the Plan by signing and delivering to the payroll department notice on a form provided for such purpose. Such withdrawal may be elected at any time at least fifteen (15) days prior to the end of an Offering Period.
(b) Upon withdrawal from the Plan, the accumulated payroll deductions shall be returned to the withdrawn employee and his or her interest in the Plan shall terminate. In the event an employee voluntarily elects to withdraw from the Plan, he or she may not resume his or her participation in the Plan during the same Offering Period, but he or she may participate in any Offering Period under the Plan which commences on a date subsequent to such withdrawal by filing a new authorization for payroll deductions in the same manner as set forth above for initial participation in the Plan. However, if the participant is an "insider" for purposes of Rule 16(b), he or she shall not be eligible to participate in any Offering Period under the Plan which commences less than six (6) months from the date of withdrawal from the Plan.
 
(c) A participant may participate in the current Purchase Period under an Offering Period (the "Current Offering Period") and enroll in the Offering Period commencing after such Purchase Period (the "New Offering Period") by (i) withdrawing from participating in the Current Offering Period effective as of the last day of a Purchase Period within that Offering Period and (ii) enrolling in the New Offering Period. Such withdrawal and enrollment shall be effected by filing with the payroll department at least fifteen (15) days prior to the end of a Purchase Period such form or forms as are provided for such purposes.
12. . Termination of a participant's employment for any reason, including retirement or death or the failure of a participant to remain an eligible employee, terminates his or her participation in the Plan immediately. In such event, the payroll deductions credited to the participant's account will be returned to him or her or, in the case of his or her death, to his or her legal representative. For this purpose, an employee will not be deemed to have terminated employment or failed to remain in the continuous employ of the Company in the case of sick leave, military leave, or any other leave of absence approved by the Board of Directors of the Company; provided that such leave is for a period of not more than ninety (90) days or re employment upon the expiration of such leave is guaranteed by contract or statute.
Termination of Employment
13. . In the event an employee's interest in the Plan is terminated by withdrawal, termination of employment or otherwise, or in the event the Plan is terminated by the Board, the Company shall promptly deliver to the employee all payroll deductions credited to his account. No interest shall accrue on the payroll deductions of a participant in the Plan, unless otherwise required by the laws of a local jurisdiction.
Return of Payroll Deductions
14. . Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised and the number of shares of Common Stock which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but have not yet been placed under option (collectively, the "Reserves"), as well as the price per share of Common Stock covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a stock split or the payment of a stock dividend (but only on the Common Stock) or any other increase or decrease in the number of shares of Common Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration". Such adjustment shall be made by the Board, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no issue by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an option.
Capital Changes
In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Offering Period will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action, unless otherwise provided by the Board. The Board may, in the exercise of its sole discretion in such instances, declare that the options under the Plan shall terminate as of a date fixed by the Board and give each participant the right to exercise his or her option as to all of the optioned stock, including shares, which would not otherwise be exercisable. In the event of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the merger of the Company with or into another corporation, each option under the Plan shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted by such successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation, unless the Board determines, in the exercise of its sole discretion and in lieu of such assumption or substitution, that the participant shall have the right to exercise the option as to all of the optioned stock. If the Board makes an option exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a merger or sale of assets, the Board shall notify the participant that the option shall be fully exercisable for a period of twenty (20) days from the date of such notice, and the option will terminate upon the expiration of such period.
The Board may, if it so determines in the exercise of its sole discretion, also make provision for adjusting the Reserves, as well as the price per share of Common Stock covered by each outstanding option, in the event that the Company effects one or more
 
reorganizations, recapitalizations, rights offerings or other increases or reductions of shares of its outstanding Common Stock, and in the event of the Company being consolidated with or merged into any other corporation.
15. . Neither payroll deductions credited to a participant's account nor any rights with regard to the exercise of an option or to receive shares under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will, the laws of descent and distribution or as provided in Section 22 hereof) by the participant. Any such attempt at assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition shall be without effect.
Nonassignability
16. . Individual accounts will be maintained for each participant in the Plan. Each participant shall receive promptly after the end of each Purchase Period a report of his account setting forth the total payroll deductions accumulated, the number of shares purchased, the per share price thereof and the remaining cash balance, if any, carried forward to the next Purchase Period or Offering Period, as the case may be.
Reports
17. . Each participant shall notify the Company if the participant disposes of any of the shares purchased in any Offering Period pursuant to this Plan if such disposition occurs within two (2) years from the Offering Date or within twelve (12) months from the Purchase Date on which such shares were purchased (the "Notice Period"). Unless such participant is disposing of any of such shares during the Notice Period, such participant shall keep the certificates representing such shares in his or her name (and not in the name of a nominee) during the Notice Period. The Company may, at any time during the Notice Period, place a legend or legends on any certificate representing shares acquired pursuant to the Plan requesting the Company's transfer agent to notify the Company of any transfer of the shares. The obligation of the participant to provide such notice shall continue notwithstanding the placement of any such legend on certificates.
Notice of Disposition
18. . Neither this Plan nor the grant of any option hereunder shall confer any right on any employee to remain in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary or restrict the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate such employee's employment.
No Rights to Continued Employment
19. . All eligible employees shall have equal rights and privileges with respect to the Plan. The Section 423 component of the Plan is intended to qualify as an "employee stock purchase plan" within the meaning of Section 423 or any successor provision of the Code and the related regulations. Any provision of the Section 423 component of the Plan which is inconsistent with Section 423 or any successor provision of the Code shall without further act or amendment by the Company or the Board be reformed to comply with the requirements of Section 423. This Section 19 shall take precedence over all other provisions in the Plan.
Equal Rights and Privileges
20. . All notices or other communications by a participant to the Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given when received in the form specified by the Company at the location, or by the person, designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.
Notices
21. . Any required approval of the stockholders of the Company for an amendment shall be solicited at or prior to the first annual meeting of stockholders held subsequent to the grant of an option under the Plan as then amended to an officer or director of the Company. If such stockholder approval is obtained at a duly held stockholders' meeting, it must be obtained by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the company represented and voting at the meeting, or if such stockholder approval is obtained by written consent, it must be obtained by the majority of the outstanding shares of the Company; provided, however, that approval at a meeting or by written consent may be obtained by a lesser degree of stockholder approval if the Board determines, in its discretion after consultation with the Company's legal counsel, that such lesser degree of stockholder approval will comply with all applicable laws and will not adversely affect the qualification of the Section 423 component of the Plan under Section 423 of the Code or Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act ("Rule 16b-3").
Stockholder Approval of Amendments
 
22. .
Designation of Beneficiary
(a) A participant may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any shares and cash, if any, from the participant's account under the Plan in the event of such participant's death subsequent to the end of a Purchase Period but prior to delivery to him of such shares and cash. In addition, a participant may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any cash from the participant's account under the Plan in the event of such participant's death prior to a Purchase Date.
(b) Such designation of beneficiary may be changed by the participant at any time by written notice. In the event of the death of a participant and in the absence of a beneficiary validly designated under the Plan who is living at the time of such participant's death, the Company shall deliver such shares or cash to the executor or administrator of the estate of the participant, or if no such executor or administrator has been appointed (to the knowledge of the Company), the Company, in its discretion, may deliver such shares or cash to the spouse or to any one or more dependents or relatives of the participant, or if no spouse, dependent or relative is known to the Company, then to such other person as the Company may designate.
23. . Shares shall not be issued with respect to an option unless the exercise of such option and the issuance and delivery of such shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares; Limitation on Sale of Shares
24. . Except as otherwise expressly required under the laws of a country, the Plan and all rights thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of California, United States of America. Should any provision of this Plan be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawful or unenforceable for a country, such determination shall in no way affect the application of that provision in any other country, or any of the remaining provisions of the Plan.
Applicable Law
25. . This Plan shall be effective on the day after the effective date of the Company's Registration Statement filed with the Securities Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the shares issuable under the Plan (the "Effective Date"), subject to approval by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months after the date the Plan is adopted by the Board of Directors of the company and the Plan shall continue until the earlier to occur of termination by the Board, or issuance of all of the shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan,. The Board of Directors of the Company may at any time amend or terminate the Plan, except that any such termination cannot affect options previously granted under the Plan, nor may any amendment make any change in an option previously granted which would adversely affect the right of any participant, nor may any amendment be made without approval of the stockholders of the Company obtained in accordance with Section 21 hereof within 12 months of the adoption of such amendment (or earlier if required by Section 21) if such amendment would:
Amendment or Termination of the Plan
(a) Increase the number of shares that may be issued under the Plan;
(b) Change the designation of the employees (or class of employees) eligible for participation in the Plan; or
(c) Constitute an amendment for which stockholder approval is required in order to comply with Rule 16b-3 (or any successor rule) of the Exchange Act.
26. .
Rules for Foreign Jurisdictions
(a) The Board or Committee may adopt rules or procedures relating to the operation and administration of the Plan to accommodate the specific requirements of the law and procedures of foreign jurisdictions. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Board or Committee is specifically authorized to adopt rules and procedures regarding handling of payroll deductions, payment of interest, conversion of local currency, payroll tax, withholding procedures and handling of stock certificates that vary with local requirements.
 
(b) The Board or Committee may also adopt rules, procedures or sub-plans applicable to particular subsidiaries or locations, which -sub-plans may be designed to be outside the scope of Code Section 423. The rules of such sub-plans may take precedence over other provisions of this Plan, with the exception of Section 3, but unless otherwise superceded by the terms of such sub-plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern the operation of such sub-plan. To extent inconsistent with the requirements of Code Section 423, such sub-plan shall be considered part of the Non-423 Plan, and options granted thereunder shall not be considered to comply with Code Section 423.
27. . The Board or Committee shall designate from among the Subsidiaries, as determined from time to time, the Subsidiary or Subsidiaries whose Employees shall be eligible to participate in the Plan. The Board or Committee may designate a Subsidiary, or terminate the designation of a Subsidiary, without the approval of the shareowners of the Corporation.
Designation of Subsidiaries
 


