FILE:EA/EA-8K-20100520161829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
  
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adoption of Electronic Arts Discretionary Bonus Plan Addendum
On May 17, 2010, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Electronic Arts Inc. (the "Company") adopted a Bonus Formula Addendum for fiscal 2011 (the "Addendum") pursuant to the Electronic Arts Discretionary Bonus Plan (the "Plan").
Except as modified by the Addendum, the Plan and its material features remain unchanged. A copy of the full text of the Plan was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2009. A copy of the full text of the Addendum is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Under the Plan, each eligible participant has an annual target bonus amount that is expressed as a percentage of his or her annual base salary. A participant's actual bonus payment amount for a designated performance period is determined with reference to one or more of the following factors: (i) the participant's annual target bonus; (ii) the participant's individual performance, (iii) the Company's financial performance as compared to pre-determined performance targets; and (iv) such other business-related performance measures as the Company deems appropriate to accomplish a business purpose.
The Addendum establishes the performance measures and weighting of such performance measures for fiscal 2011 bonuses. All eligible participants other than our Chief Executive Officer will have their fiscal 2011 bonuses determined as follows: (i) 20% based on the Company's performance as a whole and (ii) 80% based on the participant's individual performance and the achievement of measurable business objectives, including, but not limited to, business unit financial and operational performance metrics, such as profit and revenue targets. Cash bonuses awarded under the Plan for fiscal 2011 will be payable in or around June 2011 to all eligible regular status employees, including executive officers, of the Company (and its subsidiaries and affiliates).
With respect to our Chief Executive Officer, John S. Riccitiello, a total of 65% of his fiscal 2011 bonus will be determined based on Company financial performance, with the key metrics being (i) the Company's non-GAAP earnings per share, (ii) the Company's non-GAAP net revenue, and (iii) the Company's digital revenue performance targets. The remaining 35% of Mr. Riccitiello's fiscal 2011 bonus will be determined based on his individual performance and the achievement of other financial and operational objectives.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Subject to all other terms and conditions of the Electronic Arts Discretionary Bonus Plan ("Plan")* each Plan Participant who has been specifically identified by EA as eligible to receive a bonus for work performed during the Performance Period and for the Business Unit(s) set forth in this Addendum shall be eligible to receive a discretionary bonus calculated in accordance with the following:
Additional eligibility criteria, if any:
n/a (see Plan eligibility criteria)
Business Unit(s):
 
Bonus Component(s), weightings, Performance Measure(s), and Measurement Period(s) for all eligible employees other than the CEO:
 
Bonus Component(s), weightings, Performance Measure(s), and Measurement Period(s) for the CEO:
 
How a bonus award is
funded
 
The funding for the Company Bonus Component will be determined based on Performance Measure results and attainment. Performance Measure targets and funding curves will be established for each weighted Performance Measure in the Company Performance Bonus Component. The Individual Performance Bonus Component shall be funded at 100%.
How a bonus is determined
award payout
The actual earning and payout of a Participant's bonus award payout is discretionary and will be calculated based upon a Participant's Individual Achievement Factor, which takes into account the Participant's contributions to EA relative to individual performance expectations and overall Company performance. Accordingly, the actual bonus award payout is calculated as:
 
Payment schedule:
 
 
 


