FILE:EA/EA-8K-20101110060157.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
  
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director Retirement
On November 9, 2010, at a regularly-scheduled meeting of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Electronic Arts Inc. (the "Company"), Gary M. Kusin retired from the Board. Mr. Kusin had served as a director of the Company since 1995.
Appointment of New Director
At the same meeting, Luis A. Ubias, President of the Ford Foundation, was appointed to the Board as an independent director. In connection with his appointment to the Board, Mr. Ubias has also been appointed to the Audit Committee of the Board, replacing Mr. Kusin.
Mr. Ubias shall receive an annual retainer as a non-employee director of $50,000 and an additional $10,000 per year for his service on the Audit Committee. In addition, Mr. Ubias will receive 7,500 restricted stock units issued under the Company's 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, which reflects the pro-rated portion of the 10,000 restricted stock units granted to each of our non-employee directors who were re-elected at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. These restricted stock units will vest upon the earlier of August 5, 2011 or the date of the next annual meeting of stockholders.
Mr. Ubias has entered into the Company's standard form of Indemnity Agreement, which provides for indemnification of a director to the maximum extent allowed by Delaware law.
A press release announcing Mr. Kusin's retirement and Mr. Ubias' appointment to the Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
REDWOOD CITY, Calif.  November 10, 2010  Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced that Luis Ubias has been appointed to EA's Board of Directors.
Mr. Ubias is President of the Ford Foundation, where he oversees the operations and management of more than $10 billion in assets and over $500 million in annual giving. Prior to joining the foundation, Mr. Ubias was a Director at McKinsey & Company, where he led the firm's west coast media practice working with technology, telecommunications and media companies. Much of his work focused on the opportunities and challenges represented by the growth of internet and wireless capabilities.
"Luis is a strong addition to our Board," said EA CEO John Riccitiello. "He brings a deep understanding of digital opportunities in media and entertainment, and an impressive mix of strategic and operational management experience."
Mr. Ubias serves on several boards and advisory committees, including the World Bank Advisory Council of Global Foundation Leaders and the UN Permanent Advisory Memorial Committee. He has been nominated by President Obama to serve on the U.S. Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiation. He is a graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Business School, and is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
"As we welcome Luis, I also want to express our gratitude to Gary Kusin, who retires from the EA Board today after over fifteen years of distinguished contribution," continued John Riccitiello. "During his tenure, including his time as lead director from 2006 to 2009, Gary has brought invaluable insight to Electronic Arts."
 
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA), headquartered in Redwood City, California, is a leading global interactive entertainment software company. Founded in 1982, the Company develops, publishes, and distributes interactive software worldwide for video game systems, personal computers, wireless devices and the Internet. Electronic Arts markets its products under four brand names: EA SPORTS(TM), EA(TM), EA Mobile(TM), and POGO(TM). In fiscal 2010, EA posted GAAP net revenue of $3.7 billion and had 27 titles that sold more than one million units. EA's homepage and online game site is www.ea.com. More information about EA's products and full text of press releases can be found on the Internet at http://info.ea.com.
EA, EA SPORTS, EA Mobile and POGO are trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc.


