FILE:EA/EA-8K-20110804162526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of EA under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On August 4, 2011, Electronic Arts Inc. ("") announced certain changes in EA's organization and leadership team. Effective August 8, 2011, Frank Gibeau, President of EA Games, will become President of the EA Labels, which will comprise of EA Games, EA SPORTS, Bioware and EA Play. Peter Moore, President of EA SPORTS, will assume the role of Chief Operating Officer and will oversee EA's global publishing organization, global online initiatives including the Origin platform, media sales and central development services. Barry Cottle, Executive Vice President of EA Interactive will oversee EA Mobile, Playfish, Pogo, Hasbro and PopCap, following the completion of EA's acquisition of PopCap Games, Inc.
EA
A copy of the message from John Riccitiello, EA's Chief Executive Officer, announcing these changes on www.ea.com is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, EA has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
John Riccitiello: Changing and Growing
Today we announced some changes in EA's organization that reflect how we create and distribute our games, as well as how we nurture the talent of our employees.
This is the first material re-organization since we established EA's label structure in 2007. Our progress since then has been incredible. We executed against three transformational strategies: (1) Fewer, Better, Bigger, (2) Expanding our digital businesses, and (3) Tighter cost management. Our quality has risen dramatically. We've buil an $800m+ digital business while pushing down operating costs. Not all of it was easy but looking back, it was exactly the right structure and priorities for the challenges we faced.
t
Now, we are switching from defense to offense. We're focusing on building our intellectual properties/franchises into year-round business. We've established our own platform, Origin, and we continue to grow our digital business.
We are already seeing big returns on our investment in change. That's why this is precisely the right time to update our organization. A few highlights that were announced today:
 
 
 
 
Two final thoughts on the reorganization:
First, I think it's a great reflection on EA that we are able to tap so much world-class leadership from within our own ranks. The depth of talent and leadership in this company is inspiring.
Second, as I look across EA and back on its history, I come to an important realization. The people who succeed here are the ones who map their creative vision over a deep understanding of what our consumers want. Our Label structure reflects that strategy. It creates a close partnership between developers and product marketers that connects the creative process to our consumers.
This is an exciting time. The opportunities are growing exponentially and EA is growing and changing to capture them.


