FILE:EA/EA-8K-20111215162455.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of Registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 15, 2011, Electronic Arts Inc. announced that its ticker symbol on the NASDAQ Global Select Market will change to "EA." The new symbol will become effective as of the opening of trading on Tuesday, December 20, 2011.
A copy of the press release announcing this change is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Electronic Arts Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 15, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Electronic Arts To Change NASDAQ Ticker Symbol To "EA" Effective December 20, 2011
REDWOOD CITY, Calif., Dec. 15, 2011 (BUSINESS WIRE) Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: ERTS) today announced that its NASDAQ ticker symbol will change to "EA".
The new symbol will become effective as of the opening of trading on Tuesday, Dec. 20, 2011.
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts (NASDAQ:ERTS) is a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. The Company's game franchises are offered as both packaged goods products and online services delivered through Internet-connected consoles, personal computers, mobile phones and tablets. EA has more than 100 million registered players and operates in 75 countries.
In fiscal 2011, EA posted GAAP net revenue of $3.6 billion. Headquartered in Redwood City, California, EA is recognized for critically acclaimed, high-quality blockbuster franchises such as The Sims, Madden NFL, FIFA Soccer, Need for Speed, Battlefield, and Mass Effect. More information about EA is available at http://info.ea.com.
The Sims and Need for Speed are trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. Mass Effect is a trademark of EA International (Studio and Publishing) Ltd. John Madden, NFL and FIFA are the property of their respective owners and used with permission.
For more information contact:
 


