FILE:EA/EA-8K-20110531161645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 27, 2011, Electronic Arts Inc. ("EA") entered into a letter agreement (the "Agreement") with Relational Investors LLC ("Relational"), Ralph V. Whitworth, and certain other Relational affiliates (the "Relational Group"). Under the Agreement, EA has agreed to appoint Mr. Whitworth to EA's Board of Directors (the "Board") and the Executive Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board if requested by Relational between September 15, 2011 and May 1, 2012. Should Mr. Whitworth join EA's Board, EA agrees to re-nominate him at EA's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders for a one-year term. EA's obligations to appoint and re-nominate Mr. Whitworth if requested by Relational are conditioned upon the Relational Group continuing to hold at least 6 million shares of EA common stock.
The Relational Group has withdrawn its nomination of three candidates for election as directors of EA at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2011 Annual Meeting") and the members of the Relational Group have agreed to vote for the Board's slate of nominees for director at EA's annual meetings. The Relational Group also has agreed to vote at the 2011 Annual Meeting in accordance with the Board's recommendation with respect to any proposals submitted to stockholders, although the Relational Group may abstain from the stockholders' advisory vote on executive compensation.
In addition, the Relational Group has committed to certain standstill provisions which include, among others, that the Relational Group will not (a) make, participate in or encourage a solicitation of proxies, (b) initiate or encourage any stockholder proposals, (c) seek representation on, or nominate any candidate for, the Board (other than Mr. Whitworth as described above), (d) act alone or in concert with others to seek to control the management or Board of EA, or (e) own more than 9.9% of the Voting Securities (as such term is defined in the Agreement).
The Agreement terminates on the later of (a) 30 days before the last day of the notice period specified in EA's advance notice bylaw related to director nominations for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2013 Annual Meeting") or (b) if Mr. Whitworth is appointed or elected to serve on the Board, the date that Mr. Whitworth is no longer serving on the Board. In addition, if Mr. Whitworth is appointed to the Board and the Board determines not to nominate Mr. Whitworth for reelection at the 2013 Annual Meeting or at any subsequent annual meeting, EA must notify Mr. Whitworth and Relational of this determination not less than 30 days before the last day of the notice period specified in EA's advance notice bylaw related to director nominations for the applicable annual meeting, in which case the Agreement will terminate on the date of this notice.
The foregoing summary of the Agreement is not complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
On May 31, 2011, EA issued a press release relating to the Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Privileged & Confidential
Relational Investors LLC
12400 High Bluff Drive, Suite 600
San Diego, CA 92130
Dear Gentlemen:
This letter constitutes the agreement (the "") between Electronic Arts Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), on the one hand, and Relational Investors LLC ("") and each of the other individuals and entities set forth on the signature pages hereto (the "," and together with Investor, the Investor Affiliates, and the Affiliates and Associates of each of the foregoing, the ""), on the other hand, with respect to the matters set forth below:
Agreement
Company
Investor
Investor Affiliates
Investor Group
1. If from September 15, 2011 through May 1, 2012, Investor makes a written request to the Company, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") shall appoint Ralph V. Whitworth ("") to serve as a director within ten (10) business days. If Nominee is appointed to the Board pursuant to this , the Company shall include Nominee as a nominee to the Board on the slate of nominees recommended by the Board in the Company's proxy statement and on its proxy card relating to the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders of the Company (the ""). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if at any time the Investor Group's aggregate beneficial ownership of shares of the Company's common stock, $0.01 par value per share (the "") decreases to less than 6,000,000 shares of Common Stock (as adjusted for any stock dividends, stock splits, reverse stock splits or other distributions or offerings made available to holders of Common Stock generally after the date hereof) (the ""), this shall be .
Board
Nominee
Section 1
2012 Annual Meeting
Common Stock
Ownership Threshold
Section 1
void ab initio
2. Conditioned upon Nominee joining the Board, the Board shall appoint Nominee to serve as a member of the Compensation Committee of the Board, that, at such time, Nominee meets all independence and other standards under applicable rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") and applicable provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""). As long as Nominee serves as a director of the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Company shall provide Nominee with all written materials furnished to members of each committee of the Board.
provided
SEC
Exchange Act
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 2
 
3. In the event that, during the term of this Agreement, Nominee becomes unable to serve as a director of the Company due to death or disability or ceases to serve as a principal (or similar executive position) of Investor, Investor shall have the right to designate David H. Batchelder as a replacement for Nominee for all purposes of this Agreement, in which event the term "Nominee" shall be deemed to refer to Mr. Batchelder.
4. The Investor Group agrees that automatically and without any additional action by any party hereto, upon the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto, the Investor Group irrevocably withdraws, and shall be deemed to have irrevocably withdrawn, the nominations for election as directors to the Board at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders of the Company (the "") set forth in its letter to the Company dated May 4, 2011. The Investor Group agrees that it shall not submit any nominations for election to the Board or stockholder proposals at the 2011 Annual Meeting or 2012 Annual Meeting.
2011 Annual Meeting
5. During the term of this Agreement, each member of the Investor Group shall cause all Voting Securities (whether held of record or beneficially) that it is entitled to vote at each annual meeting of stockholders to be present for quorum purposes and to be voted in favor of the election of each of the Board's nominees, including the individuals nominated by the Board to stand for election at the Company's 2011 Annual Meeting or any subsequent annual meeting.
6. With respect to all matters subject to a vote of stockholders of the Company at the 2011 Annual Meeting other than the election of directors, each member of the Investor Group shall cause all Voting Securities that it is entitled to vote to be voted in accordance with the Board's recommendation with respect to such matter; provided that, with respect to the stockholders' advisory vote on executive compensation, the members of the Investor Group shall either abstain from voting upon, or shall vote in favor of, such matter.
7. During the term of this Agreement, the Investor Group agrees that, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, no member of the Investor Group or any of their respective Affiliates or Associates (as defined below) under their control or direction shall, in any way or in any capacity, directly or indirectly:
(a) make, or in any way participate in, or encourage any "solicitation" (as such term is used in the proxy rules of the SEC) of proxies or consents with respect to the election or removal of directors or any other matter or proposal or seek to advise, encourage or influence any Person with respect to the voting of any Voting Securities;
(b) initiate, propose or otherwise "solicit" (as such term is used in the proxy rules of the SEC) stockholders of the Company for the approval of any stockholder proposal, whether made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 or Rule 14a-4 under the Exchange Act, or otherwise, or cause or encourage any Person to initiate any such stockholder proposal;
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 3
 
(c) seek, alone or in concert with others, to call, or to request the call of, or call a special meeting of the stockholders of the Company; or make a request for or take any action to obtain or retain, any list of the Company's stockholders or other Company records;
(d) seek election or appointment to, or representation on, or nominate or propose the nomination of any candidate to the Board, except as specifically contemplated in ; or seek the removal of any member of the Board, or a change in the composition or size of, the Board;
Section 1
(e) form, join or in any way participate in a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other group, including, without limitation, a group as defined under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, with respect to any Voting Securities, or deposit any Voting Securities into a voting trust or subject any Voting Securities to any voting agreement, other than solely with other members of the Investor Group with respect to Voting Securities now or hereafter owned by them in accordance with the terms of this Agreement;
(f) act alone or in concert with others to control or seek to control the management or the Board of the Company;
(g) with respect to the Company or the Voting Securities, (i) otherwise communicate with the Company's stockholders or others pursuant to Rule 14a-1(l)(2)(iv) under the Exchange Act or (ii) participate in, or take any action pursuant to, any "stockholder access" proposal that may be implemented by the SEC, whether in accordance with Rule 14a-11 or otherwise;
(h) acquire, offer or propose to acquire, or agree to acquire (except by way of stock dividends, stock splits, reverse stock splits or other distributions or offerings made available to holders of any Voting Securities generally), directly or indirectly, whether by purchase, tender or exchange offer, through the acquisition of control of another Person, by joining a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other group (as defined under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) or otherwise, any Voting Securities if, as a result of such acquisition, the members of the Investor Group would beneficially own in the aggregate in excess of 9.9% of the then outstanding Voting Securities;
(i) seek, propose, or make any statement with respect to any merger, consolidation, business combination, tender or exchange offer, sale or purchase of assets, sale or purchase of securities, dissolution, liquidation, restructuring, recapitalization or similar transactions of or involving the Company or any of its Affiliates or Associates;
(j) enter into any arrangements, understanding or agreements (whether written or oral) with, or advise, finance, assist or encourage, any other Person in connection with any of the foregoing, or make any investment in or enter into any arrangement with any other Person that engages, or offers or proposes to engage, in any of the foregoing;
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 4
 
(k) make any public statement or public disclosure regarding any intent, purpose, plan or proposal with respect to the Board, the Company, its management, policies or affairs or any of its securities or assets or this Agreement, that is inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, including any intent, purpose, plan or proposal that is conditioned on, or would require waiver, amendment, nullification or invalidation of, any provision of this Agreement or take any action that could require the Company to make any public disclosure relating to any such intent, purpose, plan, proposal or condition; or
(l) otherwise take, or solicit, cause or encourage others to take, any action inconsistent with any of the foregoing.
8. Nominee agrees, during the term of any service as a director of the Company, to comply with all policies, procedures, processes, codes, rules, standards and guidelines applicable to members of the Board, including, without limitation, the Company's code of conduct, insider trading policy, its Regulation FD policy, its Related Person Transaction policy and corporate governance guidelines. Nominee agrees, during the term of any service as a director of the Company, to keep confidential and not publicly disclose discussions and matters considered in meetings of the Board and Board committees, unless previously disclosed publicly by the Company. Nominee agrees that, within five (5) business days of appointment to serve as a director, he shall submit to the Company a fully completed copy of the Company's standard director & officer questionnaire and other reasonable and customary director onboarding documentation required by the Company in connection with the appointment or election of new Board members.
9. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Nominee, during the term of any service as a director of the Company, shall not be prohibited from acting in his capacity as a director and complying with his fiduciary duties as a director of the Company, all in accordance with the agreement set forth in . In addition, nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or prohibit the other members of Board from complying with their respective fiduciary duties as directors of the Company during the term of this Agreement.
Section 8
10. As soon as reasonably practicable following the execution of this Agreement, the Company and Investor will issue a joint press release in the form attached as (the ""). Neither the Company nor the Investor Group will make any public statements (including in any filing with the SEC, any other regulatory or governmental agency, or any stock exchange) that are inconsistent with, or otherwise contrary to, the statements in the Press Release. Each party hereto shall refrain from disparaging, impugning, or taking any action reasonably likely to damage the reputation of the other party or the directors or officers of the Company. The foregoing shall not apply to any compelled testimony or production of information, either by legal process, subpoena, or as part of a response to a request for information from any governmental authority with jurisdiction over the party from whom information is sought.
Exhibit A
Press Release
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 5
 
11. Each member of the Investor Group represents and warrants that:
(a) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and is a valid and binding obligation of such individual or entity, enforceable against such individual or entity in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or similar laws generally affecting the rights of creditors and subject to general equity principles.
(b) As of the date of this Agreement, they, collectively, beneficially own an aggregate of 12,404,216 shares of Common Stock, and such Common Stock constitutes all of the Voting Securities of the Company beneficially owned by the members of the Investor Group.
(c) They collectively own, and at all times during the prior three (3) years have at all times owned, less than 5% of the outstanding Common Stock.
(d) They (i) do not, directly or indirectly, own, beneficially or of record, any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to the Common Stock or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of the Common Stock, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in shares of Common Stock or otherwise (each, a "") or have any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of Common Stock; (ii) are not party to any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding or relationship pursuant to which any of them has a right to vote any securities of the Company, and (iii) except for customary incentive or performance fees paid to Investor or its affiliates in the capacity of general partner, managing member or investment adviser of the funds and partnerships included in the Investor Group, do not have a right to any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) based on any increase or decrease in the value of the shares of Common Stock or Derivative Instruments.
Derivative Instrument
(e) Each member of the Investor Group is controlled by Investor.
12. The Company hereby represents that this Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and is a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or similar laws generally affecting the rights of creditors and subject to general equity principles.
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 6
 
13. The date on which this Agreement, including the covenants and agreements contained in above, shall terminate is referred to herein as the "." The Termination Date shall be the later of (a) thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the notice period specified in the Company's advance notice bylaw related to nominations of directors at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders of the Company (the ""), or (b) if the Nominee is appointed or elected to serve on the Board pursuant to , the date on which Nominee is no longer serving on the Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Nominee is a director and the Board determines not to nominate Nominee for reelection to the Board at the 2013 Annual Meeting or at any subsequent annual meeting, the Company shall give Nominee and Investor notice of such determination not less than thirty (30) days prior to the last day of the notice period specified in the Company's advance notice bylaw related to nominations of directors at such meeting. Nominee covenants and agrees to offer to tender his resignation from the Board within five (5) business days of (a) the Investor Group ceasing to own at least the Ownership Threshold or (b) a breach of this Agreement by any member of the Investor Group.
Section 7
Termination Date
2013 Annual Meeting
Section 1
14. As used in this Agreement, (a) the term "" shall be interpreted broadly to include, among others, any individual, general or limited partnership, corporation, limited liability or unlimited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, group, association or other entity of any kind or structure; (b) the terms "" and "" shall have the meanings set forth in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act and shall include Persons who become Affiliates or Associates of any Person subsequent to the date of this Agreement; (c) the term "" shall mean the shares of Common Stock and any other securities of the Company entitled to vote in the election of directors, or securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, such common stock or other securities, whether or not subject to the passage of time or other contingencies; and (d) the term "" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banks in New York City are authorized or obligated by applicable law or executive order to close or are otherwise generally closed.
Person
Affiliate
Associate
Voting Securities
business day
15. The parties recognize and agree that if for any reason any of the provisions of this Agreement are not performed in accordance with their specific terms or are otherwise breached, immediate and irreparable harm or injury would be caused for which money damages would not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, each party agrees that in addition to other remedies the other party shall be entitled to an injunction without posting a bond or other undertaking restraining any violation or threatened violation of the provisions of this Agreement. In the event that any action shall be brought in equity to enforce the provisions of the Agreement, no party shall allege, and each party hereby waives the defense, that there is an adequate remedy at law.
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 7
 
16. This Agreement, together with the Confidentiality Agreement entered into on the date hereof between the Company and the Investor Group, constitute the only agreements between the Investor Group and the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements, understandings, negotiations and discussions, whether oral or written. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties named herein and their respective successors and permitted assigns. No party may assign or otherwise transfer either this Agreement or any of its rights, interests, or obligations hereunder without the prior written approval of the other parties. Any purported transfer requiring consent without such consent shall be void. No amendment, modification, supplement or waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless it is in writing and signed by the party or parties hereto affected thereby, and then only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose stated therein. Any waiver by any party hereto of a breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate as or be construed to be a waiver of any other breach of such provision or of any breach of any other provision of this Agreement. The failure of a party hereto to insist upon strict adherence to any term of this Agreement on one or more occasions shall not be considered a waiver or deprive that party of the right thereafter to insist upon strict adherence to that term or any other term of this Agreement.
17. If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, the other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. Any provision of this Agreement held invalid or unenforceable only in part or degree shall remain in full force and effect to the extent not held invalid or unenforceable. The parties further agree to replace such invalid or unenforceable provision of this Agreement with a valid and enforceable provision that will achieve, to the extent possible, the purposes of such invalid or unenforceable provision.
18. This Agreement, and any dispute arising out of, relating to or in connection with this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to its conflict of laws principles. Each of the parties hereto (a) consents to the personal jurisdiction and venue in any action to enforce this Agreement in the federal or state courts located in Wilmington, Delaware; (b) agrees that it shall not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court; and (c) agrees that it shall not bring any action relating to this Agreement in any court other than the federal or state courts located in Wilmington, Delaware.
19. This Agreement is solely for the benefit of the parties hereto and is not enforceable by any other Persons.
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 8
 
20. Any notice or other communication required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when delivered in person, by overnight courier, by facsimile transmission (with receipt confirmed by telephone or by automatic transmission report) or two business days after being sent by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested), as follows:
If to Company:
 
with copies (which shall not constitute notice to the Company) to:
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati
Professional Corporation
1301 Avenue of the Americas, 40th Floor
New York, NY 10019
Attention: Warren S. de Wied
Telephone: (212) 999-5800
Facsimile: (212) 999-5899
and
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati
Professional Corporation
650 Page Mill Road
Palo Alto, CA 94304
Attention: Martin Korman
Phone: (650) 493-9300
Facsimile: (650) 493-6811
If to the Investor Group:
Relational Investors LLC
12400 High Bluff Drive, Suite 600
San Diego, CA 92130
Attn: Kathleen Carney
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 9
 
Any party may by notice given in accordance with this to the other parties designate updated information for notices hereunder.
Section 20
21. Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it has been represented by counsel of its choice throughout all negotiations that have preceded the execution of this Agreement, and that it has executed this Agreement with the advice of such counsel. Each party hereto and its counsel cooperated and participated in the drafting and preparation of this Agreement, and any and all drafts relating thereto exchanged among the parties shall be deemed the work product of all of the parties and may not be construed against any party by reason of its drafting or preparation. Accordingly, any rule of law or any legal decision that would require interpretation of any ambiguities in this Agreement against any party hereto that drafted or prepared it is of no application and is hereby expressly waived by each of the parties, and any controversy over interpretations of this Agreement shall be decided without regard to events of drafting or preparation.
22. Each party hereto shall each be responsible for its own fees and expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, execution and effectuation of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby.
23. This Agreement may be executed by the parties hereto in separate counterparts (including by fax and .pdf), each of which when so executed shall be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 10
 
If the terms of this Agreement are in accordance with your understandings with the Company, please sign and return the enclosed duplicate of this Agreement, whereupon this Agreement shall constitute a binding agreement among us.
 
 
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 11
 
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 12
 
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 13
 
Relational Investors LLC
May 27, 2011
Page 14
 

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: ERTS) and Relational Investors LLC, a major EA shareholder, today announced a mutual cooperation agreement giving Relational an option to appoint its Principal and Co-Founder, Ralph Whitworth, to EA's Board of Directors.
Redwood City, CA  May 31, 2011 
"Electronic Arts and Relational have engaged in a series of discussions about EA's significant progress in improving its business and its prospects for continued growth and improvement," said John Riccitiello, Chief Executive Officer of Electronic Arts. "This agreement signals Relational's confidence as we transform EA from a packaged goods company to a fully integrated digital entertainment company."
"EA's performance over the last several months and the rapid growth of its digital business demonstrate the fundamental strength of its business franchise and management's ability to extend the Company's industry leadership," said Ralph Whitworth, Principal and Co-Founder of Relational. "We are pleased to be closely engaged with EA's management team and we are confident in the Company's growth potential."
The mutual cooperation agreement provides Relational with an option to appoint Ralph Whitworth to the Electronic Arts Board of Directors, and its Executive Compensation and Leadership Committee, at Relational's request between September 15, 2011 and May 1, 2012. Should Mr. Whitworth join the Company's Board, Electronic Arts agrees to re-nominate him at the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders for a customary one-year term.
Relational, a $6.4 billion private investment fund, began investing in Electronic Arts shares in early 2011 and, as of the quarter ending March 31st, owned approximately 1.5% of Electronic Arts' common stock. The agreement is detailed in an exhibit to the Form 8-K that the Company filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts (NASDAQ:ERTS) is a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. The Company's game franchises are offered as both packaged goods products and online services delivered through Internet-connected consoles, personal computers, mobile phones and tablets. EA has more than 100 million registered players and operates in 75 countries. In fiscal 2011, EA posted GAAP net revenue of $3.6 billion. Headquartered in Redwood City, California, EA is recognized for critically acclaimed, high-quality blockbuster franchises such as The Sims, Madden NFL, FIFA Soccer, Need for Speed, Battlefield, and Mass Effect. More information about EA is available at http://info.ea.com.
Contacts:
 


