FILE:EA/EA-8K-20120507160202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 7, 2012, Electronic Arts Inc. ("EA") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On May 7, 2012, EA management initiated a plan of restructuring (the "Plan") to align the Company's cost structure with its ongoing digital transformation. Under the Plan, EA anticipates reducing its workforce and incurring other costs. EA expects the majority of these actions to be completed by September 30, 2012.
In connection with the Plan, EA anticipates incurring approximately $40 million in total costs, of which approximately $31 million will result in future cash expenditures. All of these charges are expected to occur during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013. These costs will consist of severance and other employee-related costs (approximately $23 million), license termination costs (approximately $11 million) and other costs (approximately $6 million).
The foregoing discussion of EA's plan of restructuring contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, including statements about EA's estimates and expectations regarding future restructuring charges, operating expenses and other costs are forward-looking. EA uses words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "expect", "intend" (and the negative of any of these terms), "future" and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risks and reflect management's current estimates and expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from the expectations set forth in these forward-looking statements. EA will not necessarily update these forward-looking statements if they later turn out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may affect EA's future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed above, under the heading "Risk Factors" in EA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011, and in other documents EA has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
REDWOOD CITY, CA  May 7, 2012  Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: EA) today announced preliminary financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2012.
"We are proud to report a strong quarter and a fiscal year highlighted with $1.2 billion of digital revenue," said Chief Executive Officer John Riccitiello. "In the coming year, we break away from the pack, with a very different profile than the traditional game companies and capabilities that none of our new digital competitors can match."
"Digital growth drove our margins in fiscal 12 and we project this trend will continue in fiscal 13," said Interim Chief Financial Officer Ken Barker. "We saw more than 20 percent non-GAAP diluted EPS growth in fiscal 12, and are guiding to more than 30 percent growth in fiscal 13 based on the midpoint of our guidance."
Selected Operating Highlights and Metrics:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Q4 and Full-Year FY12 Financial Highlights:
For the quarter, non-GAAP net revenue of $977 million was slightly ahead of our guidance of $925 million to $975 million. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.17 was in line with our guidance of $0.10 to $0.20. Non-GAAP net revenue in Q4 fiscal 2012 was slightly lower as compared to Q4 fiscal 2011 due to a reduction in the number of package goods titles in the quarter.
 
Trailing Twelve Month (TTM) Financial Highlights:
 
Q4 FY12 Digital Metrics:
 
Business Outlook as of May 7, 2012
The following forward-looking statements, as well as those made above, reflect expectations as of May 7, 2012. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation to update these statements. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, including: product development delays; competition in the industry; the health of the economy in the U.S. and abroad and the related impact on discretionary consumer spending; changes in anticipated costs; the financial impact of acquisitions by EA; the popular appeal of EA's products; EA's effective tax rate; and other factors detailed in this release and in EA's annual and quarterly SEC filings.
Fiscal Year 2013 Expectations  Ending March 31, 2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Expectations  Ending June 30, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Supporting Documents
Electronic Arts will host a conference call on May 7, 2012 at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) to review its results for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2012 and its outlook for the future. During the course of the call, Electronic Arts may disclose material developments affecting its business and/or financial performance. Listeners may access the conference call live through the following dial-in number: 773-799-3213 (domestic) or 888-677-1083 (international), using the password "EA" or via webcast at .
http://ir.ea.com
EA will also post a slide presentation that accompanies the call at .
http://ir.ea.com
A dial-in replay of the conference call will be provided until May 15, 2012 at the following number: 203-369-0099 (domestic) or 866-356-3373 (international). A webcast replay of the conference call will be available for one year at .
http://ir.ea.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, Electronic Arts uses certain non-GAAP measures of financial performance. The presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with the Company's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures used by Electronic Arts include: non-GAAP net revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) and historical and estimated non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share. These non-GAAP financial measures exclude the following items, as applicable in a given reporting period, from the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Electronic Arts may consider whether other significant non-recurring items that arise in the future should also be excluded in calculating the non-GAAP financial measures it uses.
Electronic Arts believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide meaningful supplemental information
regarding the Company's performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of the Company's core business, operating results or future outlook. Electronic Arts' management uses, and believes that investors benefit from referring to, these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the Company's operating results both as a consolidated entity and at the business unit level, as well as when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate comparisons of the Company's performance to prior periods.
In addition to the reasons stated above, which are generally applicable to each of the items Electronic Arts excludes from its non-GAAP financial measures, the Company believes it is appropriate to exclude certain items for the following reasons:
. GAAP requires expenses to be recognized for various types of events associated with a business acquisition. These events include, expensing acquired intangible assets, including acquired in-process technology, post-closing adjustments associated with changes in the estimated amount of contingent consideration to be paid in an acquisition, and the impairment of accounting goodwill created as a result of an acquisition when future events indicated there has been a decline in its value. When analyzing the operating performance of an acquired entity, Electronic Arts' management focuses on the total return provided by the investment (i.e., operating profit generated from the acquired entity as compared to the purchase price paid including the final amounts paid for contingent consideration) without taking into consideration any allocations made for accounting purposes. Because the final purchase price paid for an acquisition necessarily reflects the accounting value assigned to both contingent consideration and to the intangible assets (including goodwill), when analyzing the operating performance of an acquisition in subsequent periods, the Company's management excludes the GAAP impact of any adjustments to the fair value of these acquisition-related balances to its financial results.
Acquisition-Related Expenses
Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer's non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, for GAAP purposes, we are required to amortize as a debt discount an amount equal to the fair value of the conversion option as interest expense on the Company's $632.5 million of 0.75% convertible senior notes that were issued in a private placement in July 2011 over the term of the notes. Electronic Arts' management will exclude the effect of this amortization when evaluating the Company's operating performance and the performance of its management team during this period and will continue to do so, when it plans, forecasts and analyzes future periods.
Amortization of Debt Discount on the Convertible Senior Notes.
. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, Electronic Arts recognized a $27 million expense related to a potential settlement of an on-going litigation matter. This significant non-recurring litigation expense is excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures in order to provide comparability between periods. Further, the Company excluded this expense when evaluating its operating performance and the performance of its management team during this period and will continue to do so when it plans, forecasts and analyzes future periods.
Certain non-recurring litigation expenses
Electronic Arts is not able to objectively determine the fair value of the online service included in certain of its packaged goods and digital content. As a result, the Company recognizes the revenue from the sale of these games and content over the estimated online service period. In other transactions, at the date we sell the software product we have an obligation to provide incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee. In these cases, we account for the sale of the software product as a multiple element arrangement and recognize the revenue on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of game play. Internally, Electronic Arts' management excludes the impact of the change in deferred net revenue related to packaged goods games and digital content in its non-GAAP financial measures when evaluating the Company's operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of its management team. The Company believes that excluding the impact of the change in deferred net revenue from its operating results is important to (1) facilitate comparisons to prior periods during which the Company was able to objectively determine the fair value of the online service and not delay the recognition of significant amounts of net revenue related to online-enabled packaged goods and (2) understanding our operations because all related costs are expensed as incurred instead of deferred and recognized ratably.
Change in Deferred Net Revenue (Packaged Goods and Digital Content).
From time to time, the Company makes strategic investments. Electronic Arts' management excludes the impact of any gains (losses) on such investments when evaluating the Company's operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of its management team. In addition, the Company believes that excluding the impact of such gains (losses) on these investments from its operating results is important to facilitate comparisons to prior periods.
Gain (loss) on Strategic Investments.
. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, Electronic Arts amended an agreement with a content licensor. This amendment resulted in the termination of our rights to use the licensor's intellectual property in certain products and we incurred a related estimated loss of $38 million. This significant non-recurring loss is excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures in order to provide comparability between periods. Further, the Company excluded this loss when evaluating its operating performance and the performance of its management team during this period and will continue to do so when it plans, forecasts and analyzes future periods.
Loss on Licensed Intellectual Property Commitment
Although Electronic Arts has engaged in various restructuring activities in the past, each has been a discrete, extraordinary event based on a unique set of business objectives. Each of these restructurings has been unlike its predecessors in terms of its operational implementation, business impact and scope. As such, the Company believes it is appropriate to exclude restructuring charges from its non-GAAP financial measures.
Restructuring Charges.
. When evaluating the performance of its individual business units, the Company does not consider stock-based compensation charges. Likewise, the Company's management teams exclude stock-based compensation expense from their short and long-term operating plans. In contrast, the Company's management teams are held accountable for cash-based compensation and such amounts are included in their operating plans. Further, when considering the impact of equity award grants, Electronic Arts places a greater emphasis on overall shareholder dilution rather than the accounting charges associated with such grants.
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company uses a fixed, long-term projected tax rate of 28 percent internally to evaluate its operating performance, to forecast, plan and analyze future periods, and to assess the performance of its management team. Accordingly, the Company has applied the same 28 percent tax rate to its non-GAAP financial results.
Income Tax Adjustments.
In the financial tables below, Electronic Arts has provided a reconciliation of the most comparable GAAP financial measure to the historical non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release.
Forward-Looking Statements
Some statements set forth in this release, including the information relating to EA's fiscal 2013 guidance information under the heading "Business Outlook", contain forward-looking statements that are subject to change. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are preliminary estimates and expectations based on current information and are subject to business and economic risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or actual future results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Some of the factors which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from its expectations include the following: sales of the Company's titles; the Company's ability to manage expenses; the competition in the interactive entertainment industry; the effectiveness of the Company's sales and marketing programs; timely development and release of Electronic Arts' products; the Company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, including the PopCap acquisition; the consumer demand for, and the availability of an adequate supply of console hardware units; the Company's ability to predict consumer preferences among competing platforms; the Company's ability to service and support digital product offerings, including managing online security; general economic conditions; and other factors described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011.
These forward-looking statements are current as of May 7, 2012. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. In addition, the preliminary financial results set forth in this release are estimates based on information currently available to Electronic Arts.
While Electronic Arts believes these estimates are meaningful, they could differ from the actual amounts that Electronic Arts ultimately reports in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these estimates prior to filing its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012.
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts (NASDAQ:EA) is a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. The Company's game franchises are offered as both packaged goods products and online services delivered through Internet-connected consoles, personal computers, mobile phones and tablets. EA has more than 100 million registered players and operates in 75 countries. In fiscal year 2012, EA posted GAAP net revenue of $4.1 billion. Headquartered in Redwood City, California, EA is recognized for critically acclaimed, high-quality blockbuster franchises such as The Sims, Madden NFL, FIFA Soccer, Need for Speed, Battlefield, and Mass Effect. More information about EA is available at http://info.ea.com.
For additional information, please contact:
 
Origin, SSX, PopCap, Lucky Gem Casino, Bejeweled, Solitaire Blitz, The Sims and Need for Speed are trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. Mass Effect is a trademark of EA International (Studio and Publishing) Ltd. Battlefield 3 and Battlefield are trademarks of EA Digital Illusions CE AB. LucasArts, the LucasArts logo, and STAR WARS are registered trademarks of Lucasfilm Ltd. 2011 Lucasfilm Entertainment Company Ltd. or Lucasfilm Ltd. & or TM as indicated. All rights reserved.John Madden, NFL and FIFA are the property of their respective owners and used with permission. Apple is a trademark and App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (in millions, except per share data)
The following tables reconcile the Company's net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share as presented in its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") to its non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


