FILE:EA/EA-8K-20120201161959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 1, 2012, Electronic Arts Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Neither the information in this Form 8-K nor the information in the press release shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
REDWOOD CITY, CA  February 1, 2012  Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: EA) today announced preliminary financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011.
"We are pleased to report a strong holiday quarter driven by and a strong showing by our digital games and services," said Chief Executive Officer John Riccitiello. "is developing a committed community of players with more than 1.7 million active subscribers and growing."
Battlefield 3, FIFA12
Star Wars: The Old Republic
"We recorded our highest operating cash flow in 31 quarters and grew segment share in both Europe and North America," said Eric Brown, Chief Financial Officer. "Third quarter non-GAAP digital revenue grew 79% year-over year, and we achieved our goal of generating over $1 billion in non-GAAP digital revenue on a trailing-twelve-month basis."
Selected Operating Highlights and Metrics:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Q3 FY12 Financial Highlights:
Non-GAAP net revenue of $1,651 million exceeded our guidance of $1,550 million to $1,650 million. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.99 exceeded our guidance of $0.85 to $0.95. Non-GAAP net revenue in Q3 fiscal 2012 was higher as compared to Q3 fiscal 2011 driven by digital growth and by the successful launches of and .
Battlefield 3
Star Wars: The Old Republic
 
Trailing Twelve Month (TTM) Financial Highlights:
 
 
Q3 FY12 Digital Metrics:
 
Business Outlook as of February 1, 2012
The following forward-looking statements, as well as those made above, reflect expectations as of February 1, 2012. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation to update these statements. Results may be materially different and are affected by many factors, including: product development delays; competition in the industry; the health of the economy in the U.S. and abroad and the related impact on discretionary consumer spending; changes in anticipated costs; the financial impact of acquisitions by EA; the popular appeal of EA's products; EA's effective tax rate; and other factors detailed in this release and in EA's annual and quarterly SEC filings.
Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Expectations  Ending March 31, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2012 Key Titles by Label and Platform
 
Note: (1) Distribution Title, (2) Co-Published Title.
This Key Titles Schedule is current as of February 1, 2012 and is subject to change. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation to update this schedule.
 
Conference Call and Supporting Documents
Electronic Arts will host a conference call on February 1, 2012 at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) to review its results for the third quarter ended December 31, 2011 and its outlook for the future. During the course of the call, Electronic Arts may disclose material developments affecting its business and/or financial performance. Listeners may access the conference call live through the following dial-in number: 773-799-3213 (domestic) or 888-677-1083 (international), using the password "EA" or via webcast at .
http://ir.ea.com
EA will also post a slide presentation that accompanies the call at .
http://ir.ea.com
A dial-in replay of the conference call will be provided until February 15, 2012 at the following number: 203-369-0099 (domestic) or 866-356-3373 (international). A webcast replay of the conference call will be available for one year at .
http://ir.ea.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, Electronic Arts uses certain non-GAAP measures of financial performance. The presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with the Company's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures used by Electronic Arts include: non-GAAP net revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) and historical and estimated non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share. These non-GAAP financial measures exclude the following items, as applicable in a given reporting period, from the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Electronic Arts may consider whether other significant non-recurring items that arise in the future should also be excluded in calculating the non-GAAP financial measures it uses.
Electronic Arts believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of the Company's core business, operating results or future outlook. Electronic Arts' management uses, and believes that investors benefit from referring to, these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the Company's operating results both as a consolidated entity and at the business unit level, as well as when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate comparisons of the Company's performance to prior periods.
 
In addition to the reasons stated above, which are generally applicable to each of the items Electronic Arts excludes from its non-GAAP financial measures, the Company believes it is appropriate to exclude certain items for the following reasons:
. GAAP requires expenses to be recognized for various types of events associated with a business acquisition. These events include, expensing acquired intangible assets, including acquired in-process technology, post-closing adjustments associated with changes in the estimated amount of contingent consideration to be paid in an acquisition, and the impairment of accounting goodwill created as a result of an acquisition when future events indicated there has a decline in its value. When analyzing the operating performance of an acquired entity, Electronic Arts' management focuses on the total return provided by the investment (i.e., operating profit generated from the acquired entity as compared to the purchase price paid including the final amounts paid for contingent consideration) without taking into consideration any allocations made for accounting purposes. Because the final purchase price paid for an acquisition necessarily reflects the accounting value assigned to both contingent consideration and to the intangible assets (including goodwill), when analyzing the operating performance of an acquisition in subsequent periods, the Company's management excludes the GAAP impact of any adjustments to the fair value of these acquisition-related balances to its financial results.
Acquisition-Related Expenses
Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer's non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, for GAAP purposes, we are required to amortize as a debt discount an amount equal to the fair value of the conversion option as interest expense on the Company's $632.5 million of 0.75% convertible senior notes that were issued in a private placement in July 2011 over the term of the notes. Electronic Arts' management will exclude the effect of this amortization when evaluating the Company's operating performance and the performance of its management team during this period and will continue to do so, when it plans, forecasts and analyzes future periods.
Amortization of Debt Discount on the Convertible Senior Notes.
Electronic Arts is not able to objectively determine the fair value of the online service included in certain of its packaged goods and digital content. As a result, the Company recognizes the revenue from the sale of these games and content over the estimated online service period. In other transactions, at the date we sell the software product we have an obligation to provide incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee. In these cases, we account for the sale of the software product as a multiple element arrangement and recognize the revenue on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of game play. Internally, Electronic Arts' management excludes the impact of the change in deferred net revenue related to packaged goods games and digital content in its non-GAAP financial measures when evaluating the Company's operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of its management team. The Company believes that excluding the impact of the change in deferred net revenue from its operating results is important to (1) facilitate comparisons to prior periods during which the Company was able to objectively determine the fair value of the online service and not delay the recognition of significant amounts of net revenue related to online-enabled packaged goods and (2) understanding our operations because all related costs are expensed as incurred instead of deferred and recognized ratably.
Change in Deferred Net Revenue (Packaged Goods and Digital Content).
 
. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, Electronic Arts amended an agreement with a content licensor. This amendment resulted in the termination of our rights to use the licensor's intellectual property in certain products and we incurred a related estimated loss of $38 million. This significant non-recurring loss is excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures in order to provide comparability between periods. Further, the Company excluded this loss when evaluating its operating performance and the performance of its management team during this period and will continue to do so when it plans, forecasts and analyzes future periods.
Loss on Licensed Intellectual Property Commitment
From time to time, the Company makes strategic investments. Electronic Arts' management excludes the impact of any losses and gains on such investments when evaluating the Company's operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of its management team. In addition, the Company believes that excluding the impact of such losses and gains on these investments from its operating results is important to facilitate comparisons to prior periods.
Loss (Gain) on Strategic Investments.
Although Electronic Arts has engaged in various restructuring activities in the past, each has been a discrete, extraordinary event based on a unique set of business objectives. Each of these restructurings has been unlike its predecessors in terms of its operational implementation, business impact and scope. As such, the Company believes it is appropriate to exclude restructuring charges from its non-GAAP financial measures.
Restructuring Charges.
. When evaluating the performance of its individual business units, the Company does not consider stock-based compensation charges. Likewise, the Company's management teams exclude stock-based compensation expense from their short and long-term operating plans. In contrast, the Company's management teams are held accountable for cash-based compensation and such amounts are included in their operating plans. Further, when considering the impact of equity award grants, Electronic Arts places a greater emphasis on overall shareholder dilution rather than the accounting charges associated with such grants.
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company uses a fixed, long-term projected tax rate of 28 percent internally to evaluate its operating performance, to forecast, plan and analyze future periods, and to assess the performance of its management team. Accordingly, the Company has applied the same 28 percent tax rate to its non-GAAP financial results.
Income Tax Adjustments.
In the financial tables below, Electronic Arts has provided a reconciliation of the most comparable GAAP financial measure to the historical non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release.
Forward-Looking Statements
Some statements set forth in this release, including the estimates relating to EA's fourth quarter guidance information under the heading "Business Outlook", and the fiscal year 2012 key title slate, contain forward-looking statements that are subject to change. Statements including words such as "anticipate", "believe", "estimate" or "expect" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are preliminary estimates and expectations based on current information and are subject to business and economic risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or actual future results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
Some of the factors which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from its expectations include the following: sales of the Company's titles; the Company's ability to manage expenses; the competition in the interactive entertainment industry; the effectiveness of the Company's sales and marketing programs; timely development and release of Electronic Arts' products; the Company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, including the PopCap acquisition; the consumer demand for, and the availability of an adequate supply of console hardware units; the Company's ability to predict consumer preferences among competing platforms; the Company's ability to service and support digital product offerings, including managing online security; general economic conditions; and other factors described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011.
These forward-looking statements are current as of February 1, 2012. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. In addition, the preliminary financial results set forth in this release are estimates based on information currently available to Electronic Arts.
While Electronic Arts believes these estimates are meaningful, they could differ from the actual amounts that Electronic Arts ultimately reports in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011. Electronic Arts assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these estimates prior to filing its Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011.
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts (NASDAQ:EA) is a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. The Company's game franchises are offered as both packaged goods products and online services delivered through Internet-connected consoles, personal computers, mobile phones and tablets. EA has more than 100 million registered players and operates in 75 countries. In fiscal year 2011, EA posted GAAP net revenue of $3.6 billion. Headquartered in Redwood City, California, EA is recognized for critically acclaimed, high-quality blockbuster franchises such as The Sims, Madden NFL, FIFA Soccer, Need for Speed, Battlefield, and Mass Effect. More information about EA is available at http://info.ea.com.
For additional information, please contact:
 
The Sims Social, Need for Speed, The Sims, Pogo, EA SPORTS, Alice: Madness Returns, SSX, Darkspore, Origin and Syndicate are trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. Mass Effect is a trademark of EA International (Studio and Publishing) Ltd. Battlefield 3 is a trademarks of EA Digital Illusions CE AB. Playfish is a trademark of Electronic Arts Ltd. FAMILY GAME NIGHT is a trademark of Hasbro and used with permission. GRAND SLAM is a registered Trademark jointly owned by Tennis Australia, French Tennis Federation, All England Lawn Tennis Club (AELTC) and the United States Tennis Association. GRAND SLAM is used by EA with the permission of the GSTP. HARRY POTTER characters, names and related indicia are trademarks of and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. STAR WARS and related properties are trademarks in the United States and/or other countries of Lucasfilm Ltd. and/or its affiliates. Shadows of the Damned is a trademark of GRASSHOPPER MANUFACTURE INC. RISK is a trademark of Hasbro and is used with permission. John Madden, NFL, NCAA, NHL, FIFA, Tiger Woods, PGA TOUR are trademarks of their
 
respective owners and used with permission. App Store is at service mark of Apple Inc. iPad is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (in millions, except per share data)
The following tables reconcile the Company's net loss and loss per share as presented in its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") to its non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


