FILE:DOV/DOV-8K-20070425062158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 25, 2007, Dover Corporation issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 announcing its results of operations for its quarter ended March 31, 2007.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits, is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of Dover's filings with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
New York, New York, April 25, 2007  Dover Corporation (NYSE: DOV) announced that for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007, it had earnings from continuing operations of $138.8 million or $0.67 diluted earnings per share ("EPS"), compared to $131.3 million or $0.64 EPS from continuing operations in the prior-year period, representing increases of 6% and 5%, respectively. Revenue for the first quarter of 2007 was $1,780.2 million, an increase of 18% over the prior-year period.
Commenting on the first quarter results, Dover's President and Chief Executive Officer, Ronald L. Hoffman, stated: "We are pleased to report that Dover delivered its best ever first quarter results with earnings of $0.67 per share, up 5% over the prior year. Revenue for the quarter was a record $1.8 billion, up 18% from the prior year with bookings setting an all time high of $1.9 billion, up 14% over last year.
"As expected, the quarter got off to a slow start and built sequentially into our best first quarter on record" said Hoffman. "All six segments posted revenue gains and four segments, Diversified, Electronics, Industries and Resources all showed double-digit earnings improvement. Diversified, Electronics and Industries recorded strong gains in operating leverage. These positive gains were partially offset by the expected slowdown in the Automation & Measurement group, ERP implementation costs coupled with new product development issues in the Product ID businesses and short term margin weakness in the Food Equipment group. Incoming order rates reflect continued strength in the Process Equipment, Mobile Equipment, Food Equipment, Packaging Equipment and Oil and Gas Equipment markets.
"As anticipated in our 2006 year-end call, acquisitions had a negative impact ($0.03 cents EPS) based on normal purchase accounting charges related to the Markem acquisition and softness in the construction markets impacting Paladin. We are very pleased with the initial progress being made at both Markem and Paladin to identify cost reduction and synergy opportunities to optimize their operations and we expect to show significant improvements during the year. As a whole, we are very satisfied that our industrial companies are performing well in this environment and they continue to benefit from our "" initiatives.
PerformanceCOUNTS
"Looking forward to the second quarter and the remainder of the year, we expect our industrial businesses to show increased strength, particularly the Product Identification, Mobile Equipment and Oil and Gas Equipment groups. Our A & M group is also expected to improve sequentially, but will still reflect the impact of reduced demand compared to the prior year. In line with our normal seasonal trends and assuming the global economy remains healthy, we expect the second quarter to be significantly improved over this year's first quarter and up over the second quarter of last year. We also anticipate full-year revenue and earnings will once again be record-setting, underscoring the strength and global engagement of our market-leading companies. In closing, I sincerely thank the
 
dedicated employees of Dover, who continue to work tirelessly on our shareholders behalf by consistently delivering world-class performance."
Organic revenue growth for the quarter was 3.8%, while growth from acquisitions and foreign currency were 12.0% and 2.1% respectively. Net earnings for the first quarter of 2007 were $128.9 million or $0.63 EPS, including a loss from discontinued operations of $9.9 million or $0.05 EPS, compared to net earnings of $203.8 million or $0.99 EPS for the same period of 2006, which included earnings from discontinued operations of $72.5 million or $0.35 EPS.
Dover will host a Webcast of its first quarter 2007 conference call at 8:00 AM Eastern Time on Wednesday, April 25, 2007. The Webcast can be accessed at the Dover Corporation website at . The conference call will also be made available for replay on the website and additional information on Dover's first quarter 2007 results and its operating companies can also be found on the Company website and in the Company's Form 10-Q filed after this release.
www.dovercorporation.com
Dover Corporation makes information available to the public, orally and in writing, which may use words like "anticipates," "expects," "believes," "indicates," "suggests," "will," "plans" and "should," which are "forward-looking statements" under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning future events and the performance of Dover Corporation that involve inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations, including, but not limited to, failure to achieve expected synergies, the impact of continued events in the Middle East on the worldwide economy, economic conditions, increases in the cost of raw materials, changes in customer demand, increased competition in the markets served by Dover Corporation's operating companies, the impact of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, and their effect on global energy markets and other risks. Dover Corporation refers you to the documents that it files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, for a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties that could cause its actual results to differ materially from its current expectations and from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. Dover Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
The following table is a reconciliation of the share amounts used in computing earnings per share:
 
 


