FILE:DOV/DOV-8K-20111130083842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On November 30, 2011, Dover Corporation (the Company), in connection with the realignment of its operating units discussed below, announced the promotion of Jeffrey Niew and John Hartner as the presidents of the new business segments, Communication Technologies and Printing & Identification, respectively.  The Company also announced the retirement of David Van Loan after 30 years with the Company and its subsidiaries.
 
Item 8.01 Other Information
 
Effective as of the Company's fourth quarter 2011 financial results, the Company has realigned its operating units into four business segments which will be organized around key end-markets. The four segments are as follows:
 
 COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES
   
 ENERGY
   
 ENGINEERED SYSTEMS
   
 PRINTING & IDENTIFICATION
   
 
The Engineered Systems segment is comprised of two platforms, Fluid Solutions and Refrigeration & Industrial.
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is the Companys press release dated November 30, 2011, announcing the realignment.  Annual unaudited financial information for the years 2008 to 2010 and quarterly unaudited financial information for the years 2010 and 2011 reflecting the Companys new reporting business segments are included in the press release.
 
    
    
    
    
    
   
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
   
 
        
                         
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
Downers Grove, IL, November 30, 2011  Dover Corporation (NYSE: DOV) today announced
that the company has realigned into four business segments organized around its key end-markets. Supporting this realignment, the company also announced, effective immediately, the promotions of Jeffrey Niew and John Hartner. The realignment will allow the segments to better focus on end-market growth strategies and capital deployment, while continuing to leverage their scale to capture operational efficiencies. The new structure will also facilitate clearer measurement and benchmarking against other companies in similar end-markets.
 
The four segments are as follows:
 
With leading positions in the handset and hearing aid component markets, Communication Technologies will benefit from the continuing growth in personal communications. With forecasted 2011 full-year revenue of approximately $1.3 billion, the segment is focused on expanding its leadership position in the wireless communication and medical device markets. Jeffrey Niew, formerly an Executive Vice President in Electronic Technologies, has been appointed President and CEO of Communication Technologies.
.
Communication Technologies
 
Energy is focused on strong global trends in oil & gas drilling, production and downstream activities, including a significant position in artificial lift technologies. The Energy segment has forecasted 2011 full-year revenue of approximately $1.9 billion. Bill Spurgeon will serve as President and CEO of the Energy segment.
.
Energy
 
Comprised of two platforms, Fluid Solutions and Refrigeration & Industrial, Engineered Systems has forecasted 2011 full-year revenue of approximately $3.3 billion. Fluid Solutions will be focused on the global pump and fluid handling markets, while Refrigeration & Industrial will look to enhance Dovers strong positions in refrigeration systems and other industrial equipment. Tom Giacomini will serve as President and CEO of Engineered Systems.
.
Engineered Systems
 
Focused on expanding its printing deposition technology beyond core fast-moving consumer goods and electronics markets, Printing & Identification will benefit from growing consumerism in developing economies. The segment has forecasted 2011 full-year revenue of approximately $1.6 billion. John Hartner, formerly Executive Vice President of Engineered Systems, has been appointed President and CEO of Printing & Identification.
.
Printing & Identification
 
Commenting on this announcement, Robert A. Livingston, Dovers President and Chief Executive Officer, said, Our new segment structure sharpens our focus around end-markets, positions us to execute segment strategies, and strengthens our ability to gain efficiencies and leverage across Dover.
 
Mr. Livingston continued, I am also pleased to announce the appointments of Jeff Niew and John Hartner as President of their respective segments. Jeff and John have distinguished themselves at Dover for their ability to implement competitive strategies on a global scale. During their tenure, they have played important roles in launching new products with innovative technology, while managing costs and focusing on customer service. Jeffs and Johns promotions are coincident with the upcoming retirement of Dave Van Loan and the new responsibilities of Ray Hoglund. On behalf of everyone at Dover, I want to thank Dave and Ray for their many years of leadership and service as Segment Presidents.
 
The realignment will be reflected in Dovers full-year 2011 financial results. Going forward, Dover will provide customary segment data, including revenue and bookings data, as well as market commentary, on the new segment basis.
 
 
 
 
The company will discuss this announcement further during its previously announced annual Investor Meeting on Monday, December 5, 2011 in New York. The meeting will begin at 1:00 pm ET and will be available to all interested parties via webcast. The speakers' presentations can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of the Company's website at http://www.dovercorporation.com. The presentations will also be archived on the website and will be available starting on December 6, 2011 at 12:00 pm ET.
 
About Jeffrey Niew
Mr. Niew, 45, joined Dover as part of the Knowles acquisition in 2005. At Dover, he has been instrumental in overseeing Knowles significant growth through the mass commercialization of MEMS microphones. Mr. Niew also led Dovers acquisition of Sound Solutions, the largest acquisition in the companys history, which was completed on July 5, 2011. Mr. Niew has been an integral part of the Knowles organization since 2000. He previously held leadership roles at Hewlett Packard.
 
About John Hartner
Mr. Hartner, 48, joined Dover in 2000. Prior to serving as the Executive Vice President of Engineered Systems, Mr. Hartner held the position of Executive Vice President at Electronic Technologies. Before that, he served as the President of DEK International. John was instrumental in broadening the business scope of Electronic Technologies including DEKs emergence in the solar energy business. Before joining Dover, he held leadership roles at Rockwell Automation and FMC Technologies.
 
Details of New Segment Structure
 
Summarized below is information on the realignment of Dovers business units within its new
segment structure:
 
 
 
 
 
About Dover:
Dover Corporation is a multi-billion dollar diversified global manufacturer. For over 50 years, Dover has been providing its customers with outstanding products and services in industrial technology that reflect the companys commitment to operational excellence, innovation and market leadership. The company focuses on innovative equipment and components, specialty systems and support services through its four major operating segments: Communication Technologies, Energy, Engineered Systems and Printing & Identification. Dover employs over 34,000 people worldwide. The company is headquartered in Downers Grove, Illinois. Additional information is available at .
www.dovercorporation.com
 
Non-GAAP Information:
The following Investor Supplement tables contain historical financial information presented under Dovers new segment structure, as discussed within this release. These segment level disclosures are considered Non-GAAP financial information until such time that the new segment reporting structure is included within a periodic filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Management believes this non-GAAP financial information is useful to investors to better understand historical trends under the revised segment structure, which the company will be reporting under in its Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2011.
 
Dover Corporation makes information available to the public, orally and in writing, which may use "forward-looking statements" under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that concern future events and the performance of Dover Corporation. Dover Corporation refers you to the documents that it files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause its actual results to differ materially from its current expectations and from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. Dover Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
 
 
 
INVESTOR SUPPLEMENT
 
DOVER CORPORATION
Revenue, Earnings & Other Data by Segment
(unaudited, non-GAAP) (in thousands)
 
 
(1) Certain expenses are maintained at the corporate level and not allocated to the segments. These expenses include non-service pension costs, non-operating insurance expenses, and various administrative expenses relating to the corporate headquarters.
 
(2) Reflects impact of the discontinuance of Paladin Brands and Crenlo LLC which were sold in the third quarter of 2011.
 
 
 
DOVER CORPORATION
Quarterly Segment Information
(unaudited, non-GAAP) (in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
DOVER CORPORATION
Quarterly Segment Information
(unaudited, non-GAAP) (in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
DOVER CORPORATION
Quarterly Earnings per Share
(unaudited) (in thousands, except per share figures)
 
 


