FILE:DOV/DOV-8K-20110929095118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On September 29, 2011, Dover Corporation (the "Company") announced that it had completed the sale of Crenlo, LLC and Paladin Brands to KPS Capital Partners, LP. Total proceeds from the sale are $290 million, subject to normal post-closing adjustments. The Company anticipates recognizing a loss on the sale of approximately $0.35 per diluted share, which the Company will report as part of discontinued operations in its third quarter 2011 results.
A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     99.1       Dover Corporation press release dated September 29, 2011.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Downers Grove, IL, September 29, 2011  Dover Corporation (NYSE: DOV) announced today that it has completed the sale of Crenlo, LLC of Rochester, MN, a leading maker of cab equipment enclosures, and Paladin Brands of Cedar Rapids, IA, North America's largest independent manufacturer of attachment tools, to KPS Capital Partners, LP. Total proceeds from the sale are $290 million, subject to normal post-closing adjustments.
"We are pleased to announce the completion of the sale of Crenlo and Paladin," commented Bob Livingston, President and CEO of Dover. "While both of these companies have strong market positions, their sale is an important step in Dover's long-term vision of strengthening the portfolio, improving margins and reducing our exposure to construction related end-markets. This transaction also provides additional financial capacity to continue Dover's expansion plans in our key growth spaces through both acquisitions and internal initiatives."
The company anticipates recognizing a loss on the sale of approximately $0.35 per diluted share, which will be reported as part of discontinued operations in its third quarter 2011 results.
Dover was advised by Lazard on this transaction.
Dover Corporation is a global manufacturer providing innovative components and equipment, specialty systems and support services for a variety of applications in the industrial products, engineered systems, fluid management and electronic technologies markets. For more information, please visit
www.dovercorporation.com.


