FILE:DOV/DOV-8K-20120215164148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 On February 9, 2012, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of Dover Corporation (the Company), the independent directors of the Board took the following actions with respect to the Companys Chief Executive Officer. At its meeting on Committee took the following actions with respect to the Companys Chief Financial Officer and the other current executive officers of the Company who were named executive officers in the Companys 2011 proxy statement.
   
8  9, 2012, the
February
 
 (a)    
   
Annual Bonus Awards
 
 The Committee and independent directors, as applicable, awarded the following annual cash bonuses for the year 2011.
   
 
 The bonuses were awarded under the Companys annual bonus plan based on the percentage achievement of earnings and personal objectives goals set in the first quarter of 2011.
   
 
 (b)    
   
Cash Performance Program Payouts
 The Committee and independent directors, as applicable, awarded the following payments under the Cash Performance Program:
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 These payments were made under the cash performance program awards granted in February 2009 for the three-year performance period of 2009-2011 compared to the base year of 2008.  The awards were made under the Companys long-term incentive compensation plan, the 2005 Equity and Cash Incentive plan (the 2005 Plan).  Payout of the 2009 cash performance awards for the officers listed above were based on the internal total shareholder return achieved by the participants business unit over the performance period.
   
 
 
 
 (c)    
   
Performance Share Payouts
 
 The Committee and independent directors, as applicable, awarded the following payouts of performance share grants made in 2009 that gave the recipients a contingent right to receive shares of common stock based on the Companys total shareholder return (TSR) over the three-year performance period 2009-2011 relative to the TSR of the companies in the Companys peer group for the same period.  
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 (d)    
   
Long-Term Incentive Compensation
Grants
 
 The Committee and independent directors, as applicable, made the following long-term incentive compensation grants under the Companys 2005 Plan.
   
            The stock appreciation rights (SSARs) listed above have a base price of $65.38, the closing price of the Companys common stock on the date of grant.  They become exercisable on February 9, 2015 and have a ten year term.  The SSARs will be settled only in Company stock.
 
The cash performance awards and performance share awards each have a three-year performance period of 2012-2014 compared to the base year 2011.  The payout, if any, of the cash performance award will be based on the internal total shareholder return achieved by the participants business unit for the performance period.  The payout, if any, of the performance shares will depend on the Companys TSR over the performance period relative to the TSR of the companies in the Companys peer group for the same period.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
   
 
 
 


