FILE:CCE/CCE-8K-20101014112129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 14, 2010 the Company issued a press release, announcing that it will release third-quarter earnings before the market opens on Thursday, October 28 and providing additional information about the Company. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1
This information and exhibit are being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
ATLANTA, October 14, 2010  Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (NYSE: CCE) will release third-quarter 2010 results before the market opens on Thursday, October 28. A conference call discussing these results will be webcast live at 10:00 a.m. ET that morning.
The public can access both the news release and the live webcast through the company's website, . A replay of the presentation will be available later that day.
www.cokecce.com
These third-quarter results will be the first for the new Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc., which, following the recent close of the transaction with The Coca-Cola Company, is a new public company consisting of old CCE's European bottling operations, as well as the bottling operations in Norway and Sweden acquired from The Coca-Cola Company.
As a result of the transaction, as a new entity, CCE's results will no longer include North America. In addition, because the transaction closed in the fourth quarter, Norway and Sweden results will not be included in reported results until the fourth quarter. To create a better understanding of its core operations, however, CCE will provide summary
Page 2 of 4
 
pro forma income statements that will include Norway and Sweden third-quarter results and CCE's expectations for recurring items, including capital structure and tax rate.
Summary pro forma income statement information of new CCE results for the first and second quarters of 2010 and first six months 2010 are included in today's release. These statements include results from both Norway and Sweden and CCE's expectations for recurring items, including capital structure and tax rate.
Below is additional information about CCE following the recent transaction close:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 4
 
 
Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. is the leading Western European marketer, distributor, and producer of bottle and can liquid nonalcoholic refreshment and the world's third-largest independent Coca-Cola bottler. CCE is the sole licensed bottler for products of The Coca-Cola Company in Belgium, continental France, Great Britain, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.cokecce.com.
Included in this news release are forward-looking management comments and other statements that reflect management's current outlook for future periods. As always, these expectations are based on currently available competitive, financial, and economic data along with our current operating plans and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this news release should be read in conjunction with the risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including our Form S-4 registration statement filed in connection with the transaction with The Coca-Cola Company.
Page 4 of 4
 
 
 


