FILE:CCE/CCE-8K-20101103165759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information and exhibits attached hereto have been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are presented in this report for the convenience of investors:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS OF CCE
Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. at a Glance
 
 
CCE was incorporated in Delaware in 2010 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Legacy CCE. As of October 2, 2010, CCE is an independent, publicly traded company and owns what were previously Legacy CCE's European operations, Legacy CCE's Canadian financing company, a related portion of Legacy CCE's corporate segment and the Norway and Sweden bottling operations of TCCC.
CCE operates in the highly competitive beverage industry and faces strong competition from other general and specialty beverage companies. CCE's financial results, like those of other beverage companies, are affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, cost to manufacture and distribute products, general economic conditions, consumer preferences, local and national laws and regulations, availability of raw materials, fuel prices and weather patterns.
CCE is a marketer, producer and distributor principally of products of TCCC with greater than 90 percent of its sales volume consisting of sales of TCCC products. CCE is TCCC's strategic bottling partner in Western Europe and its third-largest independent bottler globally. CCE has bottling rights within CCE's European territories for various beverages, including products with the name "Coca-Cola." For substantially all products, the bottling rights have stated expiration dates. For all bottling rights granted by TCCC with stated expiration dates, CCE believes its interdependent relationship with TCCC and the substantial cost and disruption to TCCC that would be caused by non-renewals of these licenses ensure that they will be renewed upon expiration.
 
 
Relationship with The Coca-Cola Company
CCE conducts its business primarily under agreements with TCCC. These agreements generally give CCE the exclusive right to market, produce, and distribute beverage products of TCCC in authorized containers in specified territories. These agreements provide TCCC with the ability, at its sole discretion, to establish its sales prices, terms of payment, and other terms and conditions for CCE's purchase of concentrates and syrups from TCCC. However, concentrate prices will be subject to the terms of the incidence pricing arrangement between TCCC and CCE. Other significant transactions and agreements with TCCC include arrangements for cooperative marketing; advertising expenditures; purchases of sweeteners, juices, mineral waters and finished products; strategic marketing initiatives; cold drink equipment placement; and, from time-to-time, acquisitions of bottling territories.
Properties
CCE's principal properties include its corporate offices, European business unit headquarters offices, its production facilities, and its sales and distribution centers.
The following summarizes CCE's facilities as of December 31, 2009 (excluding the Norway and Sweden bottling operations):
 
 
 
 
CCE's principal properties cover approximately 10 million square feet in the aggregate. CCE believes that its facilities are adequately utilized and sufficient to meet its present operating needs.
At December 31, 2009, CCE operated approximately 5,000 vehicles of all types, a majority of which are leased. CCE owned approximately 500,000 coolers, beverage dispensers, and vending machines at the end of 2009.
Legal Proceedings
In connection with the Agreement entered into between Legacy CCE and TCCC on February 25, 2010, three putative class action lawsuits were filed in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, and five putative class action lawsuits were filed in Delaware Chancery Court. The lawsuits are similar and assert claims on behalf of Legacy CCE's shareholders for various breaches of fiduciary duty in connection with the Agreement. The lawsuits name Legacy CCE, the Legacy CCE Board of Directors, and TCCC as defendants. Plaintiffs in each case seek to enjoin the transaction, to declare the deal void and rescind the transaction if it is consummated, to require disgorgement of all profits the defendants receive from the transaction, and to recover damages, attorneys' fees, and litigation expenses. The Georgia cases were consolidated by orders entered March 25, 2010 and April 9, 2010, and the Delaware cases were consolidated on March 16, 2010. On September 3, 2010, the parties to the consolidated Georgia action executed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) containing the terms for the parties' agreement in principle to resolve the Delaware and Georgia actions. The MOU called for certain amendments to the transaction agreements as well as certain revisions to the disclosures relating to the transaction. The MOU also contemplates that plaintiffs will seek an award of attorneys' fees in an amount not to exceed $7.5 million. Pursuant to the transaction agreements, the liability for these attorney fees would be shared equally between CCE and TCCC. Under the MOU, the parties will seek approval of the settlement from the Georgia court, and if approved, the Georgia action will be dismissed with prejudice, and plaintiffs will thereafter dismiss the Delaware consolidated action with prejudice.
During early 2008, the United Kingdom's Office of Fair Trading (OFT) commenced an investigation in connection with the four largest grocery retailers in the United Kingdom, as well as a large number of their
 
suppliers, including CCE, regarding allege involvement in the coordination of retail prices among retailers. As part of the investigation, the OFT sent CCE a request for information, and CCE provided the requested information to the OFT for their inspection. The first inspection of data occurred in October 2008. The OFT completed their initial evidence review in November 2009. In February 2010, CCE met with the OFT to discuss the scope of the investigation and next steps. Prior to this meeting, the OFT requested additional information from CCE, and CCE provided that information on April 9, 2010. Based on current evidence, the OFT has not formed a "belief" that an infringement by CCE has occurred, and CCE believes that the investigation will not have a material effect on CCE.
Territories
CCE's bottling territories consist of Belgium, continental France, Great Britain, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden. The aggregate population of these territories was approximately 163 million at December 31, 2009. During 2009, on a pro forma basis, CCE generated approximately $7.3 billion in revenues and $843 million in operating income.
Products and Packaging
As used herein, the term "sparkling" beverage means nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages with carbonation, including energy drinks and waters and flavored waters with carbonation. The term "still" beverage means nonalcoholic beverages without carbonation, including waters and flavored waters without carbonation, juice and juice drinks, teas, coffees, and sports drinks.
CCE derives its net operating revenues from marketing, producing, and distributing nonalcoholic beverages. CCE's beverage portfolio includes some of the most recognized brands in the world, including one of the world's most valuable sparkling beverage brands, Coca-Cola. CCE manufactures approximately 95 percent of finished product from syrups and concentrates that it buys. The remainder of the products CCE sells are purchased in finished form. Although the route to market varies by country and channel of trade, CCE's product is distributed in a variety of methods, including direct to store delivery, delivery to wholesalers and distribution to customers' central warehouses and through wholesalers who deliver to retailers.
Seasonality
Sales of CCE's products tend to be seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters accounting for higher unit sales of products than the first and fourth quarters. In a typical year, CCE earns more than 60 percent of its annual operating income during the second and third quarters of the year.
Large Customers
On a pro forma basis, no single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of CCE's total net operating revenues in 2009.
Raw Materials and Other Supplies
CCE purchases syrups and concentrates from TCCC and other licensors to manufacture products. In addition, CCE purchases sweeteners, juices, mineral waters, finished product, carbon dioxide, fuel, PET (plastic) preforms, glass, aluminum, and plastic bottles, aluminum and steel cans, pouches, closures, post-mix (fountain syrup) packaging, and other packaging materials. CCE generally purchases raw materials, other than concentrates, syrups, mineral waters, and sweeteners, from multiple suppliers. The product licensing and bottling agreements with TCCC and agreements with some of CCE's other licensors provide that all authorized containers, closures, cases, cartons and other packages, and labels for their products must be purchased from manufacturers approved by the respective licensor.
The principal sweetener CCE uses is sugar. CCE's sugar purchases are made from multiple suppliers. CCE does not separately purchase low-calorie sweeteners because sweeteners for low-calorie beverage products are contained in the syrups or concentrates that CCE purchases.
 
 
CCE produces most of its plastic bottle requirements using preforms purchased from multiple suppliers. CCE believes that the self-manufacture of certain packages serve to ensure supply and to reduce or manage costs.
CCE does not use any materials or supplies that are currently in short supply, although the supply and price of specific materials or supplies are, at times, adversely affected by strikes, weather conditions, speculation, abnormally high demand, governmental controls, national emergencies, price or supply fluctuations of their raw material components and currency fluctuations.
Advertising and Marketing
CCE relies extensively on advertising and sales promotions in marketing CCE's products. TCCC and other licensors that supply concentrates, syrups, and finished products to CCE make advertising expenditures in all major media to promote sales in the local areas CCE serves. CCE also benefits from regional, local and worldwide advertising programs conducted by TCCC and other licensors. Certain of the advertising expenditures by TCCC and other licensors are made pursuant to annual arrangements.
CCE and TCCC engage in a variety of marketing programs to promote the sale of products of TCCC in territories in which CCE operates. The amounts to be paid to CCE by TCCC under the programs are determined annually and are periodically reassessed as the programs progress. Marketing support funding programs entered into with TCCC provide financial support, principally based on CCE's product sales or upon the completion of stated requirements, to offset a portion of CCE's costs of the joint marketing programs. Except in certain limited circumstances, TCCC has no contractual obligation to participate in expenditures for advertising, marketing, and other support. The amounts paid by TCCC and the terms of similar programs TCCC may have with other licensees could differ from CCE's arrangements.
Global Marketing Fund
CCE and TCCC have a Global Marketing Fund, under which TCCC pays CCE $45 million annually under such arrangement through the end of 2015 as support for marketing activities, except in the event of certain limited circumstances. The arrangement will automatically be extended for successive 10-year periods thereafter unless either party gives written notice to terminate the agreement. CCE earns annual funding under the agreement if both parties agree on an annual marketing and business plan. TCCC may terminate the agreement for the balance of any year in which CCE fails to timely complete the marketing plan or is unable to execute the elements of those plans, when such failure is within CCE's reasonable control.
Product Licensing and Bottling Agreements
Product Licensing and Bottling Agreements with TCCC
CCE bottlers in Belgium, continental France, Great Britain, Monaco, Norway, Sweden and the Netherlands, and distributor in Luxembourg (collectively referred to herein as the Bottlers), operate in their respective territories under licensing, bottler and distributor agreements with TCCC and The Coca-Cola Export Corporation, a Delaware subsidiary of TCCC (collectively referred to herein as the product licensing and bottling agreements). CCE believes that these product licensing and bottling agreements are substantially similar to other agreements between TCCC and other European bottlers of Coca-Cola Trademark Beverages and Allied Beverages.
. Subject to the Supplemental Agreement, described below, and with certain minor exceptions, CCE's Bottlers have the exclusive rights granted by TCCC in their territories to sell the beverages covered by their respective product licensing and bottling agreements in containers authorized for use by TCCC (including pre- and post-mix containers). The covered beverages include Coca-Cola Trademark Beverages, Allied Beverages, still beverages, glacau, and limited other beverages. TCCC has retained the rights, under certain circumstances, to produce and sell, or authorize third parties to produce and sell, the beverages in any manner or form within CCE territories.
Exclusivity
 
 
CCE Bottlers are prohibited from making sales of the beverages outside of their territories, or to anyone intending to resell the beverages outside their territories, without the consent of TCCC, except for sales arising out of an unsolicited order from a customer in another member state of the European Economic Area or for export to another such member state. The product licensing and bottling agreements also contemplate that there may be instances in which large or special buyers have operations transcending the boundaries of the territories and, in such instances, CCE Bottlers agree to collaborate with TCCC to improve sales and distribution to such customers.
. The product licensing and bottling agreements provide that sales by TCCC of concentrate, beverage base, juices, mineral waters, finished goods, and other goods to CCE Bottlers are at prices which are set from time to time by TCCC at its sole discretion. The parties have entered into a 5-year incidence pricing arrangement that continues the existing pricing arrangement in which concentrate price increases generally track CCE's net revenue per case increases from the previous year.
Pricing
. The product licensing and bottling agreements have 10-year terms, extending through December 31, 2020, and provide for a ten-year renewal under certain conditions. While the agreements contain no automatic right of renewal beyond December 31, 2020, CCE believes that its interdependent relationship with TCCC and the substantial cost and disruption to TCCC that would be caused by nonrenewals ensure that these agreements will continue to be renewed.
Term and Termination
TCCC has the right to terminate the product licensing and bottling agreements before the expiration of the stated term upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, nationalization, or similar condition of CCE Bottlers. The product licensing and bottling agreements may be terminated by either party upon the occurrence of a default that is not remedied within 60 days of the receipt of a written notice of default, or in the event that U.S. currency exchange is unavailable or local laws prevent performance. They also terminate automatically, after a certain lapse of time, if any of CCE Bottlers refuse to pay a concentrate base price increase.
Supplemental Agreement with TCCC
In addition to the product licensing and bottling agreements described previously, CCE Bottlers, TCCC and The Coca-Cola Export Corporation are parties to a supplemental agreement (referred to herein as the Supplemental Agreement) with regard to CCE Bottlers' rights. The Supplemental Agreement permits CCE Bottlers to prepare, package, distribute and sell the beverages covered by any of CCE Bottlers' product licensing and bottling agreements in any other territory of CCE Bottlers, provided that CCE and TCCC have reached agreement upon a business plan for such beverages. The Supplemental Agreement may be terminated, either in whole or in part by territory, by TCCC at any time with 90-days' prior written notice.
Product Licensing and Bottling Agreements with Other Licensors
The product licensing and bottling agreements between CCE and other licensors of beverage products and syrups generally give those licensors the unilateral right to change the prices for their products and syrups at any time at their sole discretion. Some of these agreements have limited terms of appointment and, in most instances, prohibit CCE from dealing in products with similar flavors. Those agreements contain restrictions generally similar in effect to those in the product licensing and bottling as to the use of trademarks and trade names, approved bottles, cans and labels, sale of imitations, planning, and causes for termination.
In Great Britain, CCE distributes certain beverages that were formerly in the Cadbury Schweppes portfolio, such as Schweppes, Dr Pepper, and Oasis (collectively referred to herein as the Schweppes Products) pursuant to agreements with an affiliate of TCCC (referred to herein as the Schweppes Agreements). These agreements impose obligations upon CCE with respect to the marketing, sale, and distribution of Schweppes Products within CCE's territory. These agreements further require that CCE achieve certain agreed-upon growth rates for the Schweppes Products and grant certain rights and remedies if these rates are not met. These agreements also place some limitations upon CCE's ability to discontinue Schweppes Products, and recognize the exclusivity of certain Schweppes Products in their respective flavor categories. CCE is given the first right to any new Schweppes Products introduced. These agreements run through 2012 and are automatically renewed for one further 10-year term unless terminated by either party.
 
 
In November 2008, the Abbey Well water brand was acquired by an affiliate of TCCC. Subsequent to that acquisition, CCE obtained the right to distribute the Abbey Well water brand in Great Britain pursuant to, and on the terms of, the Schweppes Agreements.
CCE distributes Capri-Sun beverages in France and Great Britain through distribution agreements with subsidiaries or related entities of WILD GmbH & Co. KG (referred to herein as WILD). CCE also produces Capri-Sun beverages in Great Britain through a license agreement with WILD. The terms of the distribution and license agreements are five years and expire in 2014, but are renewable for an additional five-year term (subject to CCE meeting certain pre-conditions). In addition, CCE commenced distribution of Capri-Sun beverages in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, beginning in 2010, on terms materially similar to the distribution agreements for France and Great Britain. The agreement cannot be terminated prior to the end of the fifth year. However, thereafter the agreement can be terminated by either party under certain circumstances.
In early 2009, CCE began distributing Monster beverages in all of CCE's European territories under distribution agreements between Legacy CCE's international subsidiaries and Hansen Beverage Company. These agreements, for the territories other than Belgium, have terms of 20 years, comprised of four five-year terms, and can be terminated by either party under certain circumstances, subject to a termination penalty in some cases. The agreement for Belgium has a term of 10 years, comprised of two five-year terms, and can be terminated by either party under certain circumstances, subject to a termination penalty in some cases.
CCE commenced distribution of Schweppes, Dr Pepper and Oasis products in the Netherlands in early 2010 pursuant to agreements with Schweppes International Limited. The agreements to distribute these products will expire on December 31, 2014, but can be renewed for a further term of five years subject to mutual agreement by both parties. These agreements impose obligations upon CCE with respect to achieving certain agreed-upon growth rates for each of the abovementioned products in the Netherlands and grant certain rights and remedies to Schweppes International Limited if these rates are not met.
In 2009, CCE entered into agreements with Ocean Spray International, Inc. for the distribution of Ocean Spray products in Great Britain and France commencing in February and January 2010 respectively. These agreements have an initial fixed term of five years and will be automatically renewed for an additional five years, unless terminated by either party no later than March 2014.
Competition
The nonalcoholic beverage category of the commercial beverages industry in which CCE competes is highly competitive. CCE faces competitors that differ within individual markets in CCE's territories. Moreover, competition exists not only in this category but also between the nonalcoholic and alcoholic categories.
The most important competitive factors impacting CCE's business include advertising and marketing, product offerings that meet consumer preferences and trends, new product and package innovations, pricing, and cost inputs. Other competitive factors include supply chain, distribution and sales methods, merchandising productivity, customer service, trade and community relationships, the management of sales and promotional activities, and access to manufacturing and distribution. Management of cold drink equipment, including vendors and coolers, is also a competitive factor. CCE believes that its most favorable competitive factor is the consumer and customer goodwill associated with CCE's brand portfolio. CCE faces strong competition by companies that produce and sell competing products to a retail sector that is consolidating and in which buyers are able to choose freely between CCE's products and those of its competitors.
CCE's competitors include the local bottlers and distributors of competing products and manufacturers of private-label products. For example, CCE competes with bottlers and distributors of products of PepsiCo, Inc., Nestl S.A., Groupe Danone S.A., Kraft Foods Inc., and of private-label products, including those of certain of CCE's customers. In certain of its territories, CCE sells products against which it competes in other territories. However, in all of CCE territories its primary business is the marketing, producing, and distributing of products of TCCC.
 
 
Employees
At December 31, 2009, CCE employed approximately 11,000 full-time employees in Europe, and with the acquisition of the Norway and Sweden bottling operations it added approximately 2,000 employees. Following the separation from Legacy CCE, New CCE also employs approximately 140 employees at its headquarters in the United States.
A majority of CCE employees are covered by collectively bargained labor agreements, most of which do not expire. However, wage rates must be renegotiated at various dates through 2012. CCE believes that it will be able to renegotiate subsequent agreements upon satisfactory terms.
Governmental Regulation
The production, distribution, and sale of many of CCE products are subject to various laws and regulations of the countries in which CCE operates that regulate the production, packaging, sale, safety, advertising, labeling, and ingredients of its products, and CCE operations in many other respects.
Packaging
The European Commission has issued a packaging and packing waste directive that has been incorporated into the national legislation of the European Union (referred to herein as EU) member states in which CCE does business. The weight of packages collected and sent for recycling (inside or outside the EU) in the countries in which CCE operates must meet certain minimum targets depending on the type of packaging. The legislation sets targets for the recovery and recycling of household, commercial, and industrial packaging waste and imposes substantial responsibilities upon bottlers and retailers for implementation. In the Netherlands, CCE includes 25 percent recycled content in its recyclable plastic bottles in accordance with an agreement it has with the government and, in compliance with national legislation, CCE charges its Netherlands customers a deposit on all containers greater than 1/2 liter, which is refunded to them when the containers are returned to CCE. A container deposit scheme also exists in Sweden and in Norway (which is not an EU member state) under which a deposit fee is included in the consumer price which is then paid back to the consumer if and when the container is returned. The Norwegian government further imposes two types of packaging taxes: (1) a base tax of 1.02 Norwegian kroner per package, and (2) an environmental tax calculated against the amount returned. The Norwegian base tax applies only to one-way packages, such as cans and non-returnable PET, that may not be used again in their original form.
CCE has taken actions to mitigate the adverse financial effects resulting from legislation concerning deposits, restrictive packaging, and escheat of unclaimed deposits which impose additional costs. CCE is unable to quantify the impact on current and future operations which may result from additional legislation if enacted or enforced in the future, but the impact of any such legislation might be significant.
Beverages in Schools
Throughout CCE territories, different policy measures exist related to the presence of its products in the educational channel, from a total ban of vending machines in the French educational channel, to a limited choice in Great Britain and self-regulation guidelines in CCE's other European territories. Despite CCE self-regulatory guidelines, CCE continues to face pressure for regulatory intervention to further restrict the availability of sugared and sweetened beverages in and beyond the educational channel. On a pro forma basis, during 2009, sales in primary and secondary schools represented less than 1.0 percent of CCE's total sales volume.
Environmental Regulations
Substantially all of CCE facilities are subject to laws and regulations dealing with above-ground and underground fuel storage tanks and the discharge of materials into the environment.
 
 
CCE beverage manufacturing operations do not use or generate a significant amount of toxic or hazardous substances. CCE believes that its current practices and procedures for the control and disposition of such wastes comply with applicable law.
CCE is subject to the provisions of the EU Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (referred to herein as WEEE). Under the WEEE Directive, companies that put electrical and electronic equipment (such as CCE's cold-drink equipment) on the EU market are responsible for the costs of collection, treatment, recovery, and disposal of their own products.
Trade Regulation
CCE's business, as the exclusive manufacturer and distributor of bottled and canned beverage products of TCCC and other manufacturers within specified geographic territories, is subject to antitrust laws of general applicability.
EU rules adopted by the European countries in which it does business preclude restriction of the free movement of goods among the member states. As a result, the product licensing and bottling agreements grant CCE exclusive bottling territories subject to the exception that other European Economic Area bottlers of Coca-Cola Trademark Beverages and Allied Beverages can, in response to unsolicited orders, sell such products in CCE's European territories (as CCE can in their territories). For additional information, refer to the previous discussion under "Product Licensing and Bottling Agreements." All of the countries in which CCE operates are members of the EEA.
Excise and Other Taxes
There are specific taxes on certain beverage products in some territories in which CCE does business. Excise taxes on the sale of sparkling and still beverages are in place in Belgium, France, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden. Proposals have been introduced in certain countries that would impose special taxes on certain beverages CCE sells. At this point, CCE is unable to predict whether such additional legislation will be adopted.
Tax Audits
CCE's tax filings for various periods are subjected to audit by tax authorities in most jurisdictions in which CCE does business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or potentially through the courts. CCE believes it has adequately provided for any assessments that could result from these audits where it is more likely than not that it will pay some amount.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 3, 2010

 
Exhibit 2.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS SEPARATION AND MERGER AGREEMENT, dated as of February 25, 2010 (this ""), by and among COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC., a Delaware corporation (""), INTERNATIONAL CCE, INC., a Delaware corporation (""), THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, a Delaware corporation ("") and COBALT SUBSIDIARY LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("" and together with CCE, Splitco and TCCC, each a "" and collectively, the "").
Agreement
CCE
Splitco
TCCC
Merger Sub
Party
Parties
WHEREAS, in addition to its other businesses, CCE is engaged, directly and through certain of its Subsidiaries, in (x) the marketing, production, and distribution of nonalcoholic beverages in the United States, Canada, the British Virgin Islands, the United States Virgin Islands and the Cayman Islands ("") and (y) the functions and operations of CCE's "corporate operating segment" (as defined in CCE's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009) ("") ((x) and (y) collectively, the "");
North American Territory
Corp
o
rate Segment
North American Business
WHEREAS, Splitco is a wholly-owned subsidiary of CCE;
WHEREAS, CCE desires to restructure its business so that the business of marketing, production and distribution of non-alcoholic beverages outside the North American Territory and all equity interests directly or indirectly owned by it in entities engaged in businesses other than the North American Business (collectively, the "") shall be owned, directly or indirectly, by Splitco;
Other
CCE
Bus
i
nesses
WHEREAS, at or prior to the Closing (as defined herein) of the transactions contemplated hereby the parties will execute the separation transactions as more fully described in attached hereto (collectively other than paragraphs 9, 10 and 11, the "");
Schedule A
Separation Transactions
WHEREAS, TCCC desires to acquire CCE and the North American Business;
WHEREAS, the respective boards of directors of each of TCCC and CCE, and the sole managing member of Merger Sub, have (i) approved the merger of Merger Sub with and into CCE (the ""), with CCE as the surviving corporation (CCE, as the surviving corporation in the Merger, is sometimes referred to herein as the "") pursuant to which (A) each share of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of CCE (the ""), other than the Excluded Shares, will be converted automatically into the right to receive (1) 1.000 share of Splitco Common Stock and (2) $10.00 in cash, without interest (funds for which will be comprised of cash on hand and/or funds borrowed by Splitco and distributed to CCE), and (B) each outstanding membership interest of Merger Sub ("") shall be converted into a share of the Surviving Corporation, in each case subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and (ii) approved and declared advisable this Agreement;
Merger
Surviving Corporation
CCE
Co
m
mon Stock
Merger Sub Membership Interest
 
WHEREAS, the board of directors of CCE (the "") and the Affiliated Transaction Committee have, in each case, determined that the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement are in the best interests of CCE's stockholders (other than TCCC and its Affiliates) and the CCE Board has resolved to recommend the adoption of this Agreement to CCE's stockholders;
CCE
Board
WHEREAS, the board of directors of TCCC has determined that the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement are in the best interests of TCCC;
WHEREAS, the parties to this Agreement intend that the Merger and the conversion of shares of CCE Common Stock into shares of Splitco Common Stock and cash at the Closing will qualify as tax-free for United States federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code (except as provided in Section 356(b) of the Code);
WHEREAS, following the execution of this Agreement, TCCC, CCE and Splitco expect to enter into a share purchase agreement (as executed, the "") pursuant to which TCCC will transfer to Splitco, all of its right, title and interest, directly or indirectly, in the Nordic Entities;
Nordic SPA
WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement or at the Closing, as applicable, the Parties (or their respective Subsidiaries, as applicable) are entering, or shall enter, into the Ancillary Agreements; and
WHEREAS, each of CCE, Splitco, TCCC and Merger Sub desires to make certain representations, warranties and agreements in connection with the Separation Transactions and the Merger and to prescribe certain conditions with respect to the consummations of the Separation Transactions, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth herein, as well as other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged and accepted, and intending to be legally bound hereby, each of CCE, Splitco, TCCC and Merger Sub hereby agrees as follows:
1.1 .
Certain Definitions
"" shall mean the applicable accounting period of each of TCCC and CCE (based on accounting policies in effect as of the date hereof) set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter.
Accounting Cycle
Section 1.1(a)
"" shall mean, with respect to the Consolidated North American Business Entities, on a consolidated basis, as of the Effective Time (after taking into account the transactions contemplated by this Agreement) the amount equal to their (i) current assets determined in accordance with GAAP (as applied by the North American Business as
Adjusted Net Working Capital
 
of the date hereof) consistently applied but including and/or excluding the items specified on the Statement of Adjusted Net Working Capital attached hereto as , minus (ii) current liabilities determined in accordance with GAAP (as applied by the North American Business as of the date hereof) consistently applied but including and/or excluding the items specified on the Statement of Adjusted Net Working Capital attached hereto as .
Schedule C
Schedule C
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person. The term "control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by Contract or otherwise, and the terms "controlled" and "controlling" have correlative meanings. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise specifically contemplated by the terms hereof, CCE and its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and TCCC and its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, shall not be considered to be "Affiliates" of one another.
Affiliate
"" shall mean the committee of the CCE Board formed pursuant to Article III, Section 1 of the by-laws of CCE.
Affiliated Transaction Committee
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any and all of such Person's right, title and ownership interest in and to all properties, assets, claims, Contracts and businesses of every kind, character and description, whether real, personal or mixed, tangible or intangible, whether accrued, contingent or otherwise, and wherever located (including in the possession of vendors, customers or other third parties or elsewhere), in each case whether or not recorded or reflected on the books and records or financial statements of any Person, including the following: (i) all cash, cash equivalents, notes and accounts receivable (whether current, or non-current); (ii) all certificates of deposit, banker's acceptances and other investment securities of any other form and maturity; (iii) the fee interest in all owned real properties (including all improvements located thereon or contained therein and appurtenances thereto); (iv) the leasehold interest in all leased real properties and all leasehold improvements; (v) all machinery, equipment (including all transportation and office equipment and all improvements leased from any Governmental Entity), fixtures, trade fixtures and furniture; (vi) all office supplies, production supplies, computer hardware, spare parts, other miscellaneous supplies and other tangible property of any kind; (vii) all capital stock, partnership interests and other equity or ownership interests or rights, directly or indirectly, in any Subsidiary or other entity; (viii) all inventories of materials, raw materials, products, works in progress, supplies and other inventories; (ix) all Intellectual Property Rights; (x) all rights existing under all Contracts; (xi) all prepayments, deposits, performance bonds, guarantees, derivative instruments, advances for insurance premiums to the extent they constitute an asset and not a liability of such party; (xii) all claims, causes of action, choses in action, rights to indemnification, judgments, rights of recovery and rights of set-off of any kind; (xiii) all customer lists and records pertaining to customers and accounts, personnel records, all lists and records pertaining to suppliers and agents, and all books, ledgers, files and legal and business records of every kind; (xiv) all advertising materials and all other printed, electronic or written materials, including purchase orders, forms, labels, shipping materials, catalogues, sales brochures, operating manuals, and instructional documents; (xv) all goodwill as a going concern; (xvi) all employee contracts, including the right thereunder to restrict an employee from competing in certain respects; (xvii) all trucks, automobiles and other vehicles; (xviii) all special and general
Assets
 
tools, test devices, prototypes, models and any other tangible personal property; (xix) all telephone and facsimile numbers; and (xx) all permits, licenses, registrations, approvals and authorizations of Governmental Entities or third parties relating to the ownership, possession or operation of any of the foregoing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Assets" does not include Tax assets, which are governed by the Tax Sharing Agreement.
"" shall mean a day other than Saturday, Sunday or any other day on which commercial banks located in the State of New York are authorized or required by Law to remain closed.
Business Day
"" shall mean all shares of CCE Common Stock (i) owned by TCCC or by any Subsidiary of TCCC, including Merger Sub, immediately prior to the Effective Time, (ii) owned by any of the North American Business Entities (other than CCE) or (iii) held by CCE as treasury stock immediately prior to the Effective Time. For the avoidance of doubt, the Cancelled Shares shall not be entitled to the Merger Consideration.
Cancelled Shares
"" shall mean each "employee benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), and all other employee benefit plans, programs, agreements, policies, or arrangements, including bonus plans, employment, consulting or other compensation agreements, collective bargaining agreements, incentive and other equity or equity-based compensation plans or agreements, deferred compensation arrangements, change in control, termination or severance plans or arrangements, stock purchase, severance pay, sick leave, vacation pay, salary continuation for disability, hospitalization, medical insurance, life insurance and scholarship plans and programs maintained by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries or ERISA Affiliates or to which CCE or any of its Subsidiaries or ERISA Affiliates contributed or is obligated to contribute thereunder, in each case, for employees or former employees of CCE or any of its Subsidiaries or ERISA Affiliates or directors or former directors thereof.
CCE Benefit Plan
"" shall mean the disclosure letter delivered by CCE to TCCC contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement and dated as of the date hereof.
CCE Disclosure Letter
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Employee Matters Agreement.
CCE North American Employee
"" shall mean the definition ascribed to such term in the Tax Sharing Agreement.
CCE Tax Opinion
"" shall mean all actions required to: (1) cleanup, remove, treat or remediate Hazardous Materials in the indoor or outdoor environment; (2) prevent the Release of Hazardous Materials; (3) perform pre-remedial studies and investigations and post-remedial monitoring and care; and (4) respond to any government requests for information or documents in any way relating to cleanup, removal, treatment or remediation or potential cleanup, removal, treatment or remediation of Hazardous Materials in the indoor or outdoor environment.
Cleanup
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
 
"" shall mean all Laws that are designed or intended to prohibit, restrict or regulate actions having the purpose or effect of monopolization or restraint of trade or lessening of competition through a merger or acquisition.
Competition Law
"" shall mean CCE and each of the other North American Business Entities that is consolidated with CCE in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated North American Business Entities
"" shall mean any contract, subcontract, agreement, commitment, note, bond, mortgage, indenture, lease, sublease, license, sublicense or other instrument, obligation or binding arrangement or understanding of any kind or character (and whether written or oral) and any amendments or supplements thereto.
Contract
"" shall mean the Five Year Credit Agreement, dated as of August 3, 2007, among CCE, CCE (Canada) Bottling Finance Company, TCCC Bottling Company, Bottling Holdings (Luxembourg) Commandite S.C.A., Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders and other agents party thereto, as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of October 17, 2008.
Credit Agreement
"" shall mean the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
DGCL
"" shall mean all terminated, divested or discontinued businesses, operations, sites or facilities that, at or prior to the time of termination, divestiture or discontinuation, related to or otherwise would have been part of the North American Business or were owned or operated, directly or indirectly, by a North American Business Entity.
Divested Business
"" shall mean the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act.
DLLCA
"" shall mean any claim, action, cause of action or written notice by any Person alleging potential liability (including potential liability for investigatory costs, Cleanup costs, governmental response costs, natural resources damages, property damages, personal injuries, or penalties) based on or resulting from (a) the presence, Release or threatened Release of any Hazardous Materials at any location, whether or not owned or operated by CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or (b) any violation, or alleged violation, of any Environmental Law.
Environmental Claim
"" shall mean all Laws, together with all common law, relating to pollution or protection of the environment or of human health (to the extent relating to exposure to Hazardous Materials), including Laws or common law relating to exposure to or Releases or threatened Releases of Hazardous Materials or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, Release, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials and to recordkeeping, notification, disclosure and reporting requirements respecting Hazardous Materials, and protection of natural resources, including endangered or threatened species of fish, wildlife and plants.
Environmental Laws
"" shall mean all equipment, fixtures, fittings, machinery, appliances, apparatus, inventory, materials, spare parts, supplies, tools and other tangible personal property.
Equipment
 
 
"" shall mean leases relating solely to Equipment.
Equipment Leases
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
"" shall mean any trade or business, whether or not incorporated, that together with CCE would be deemed a "single employer" within the meaning of Section 4001(b) of ERISA.
ERISA Affiliate
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" means those Assets listed on of the CCE Disclosure Letter.
Excluded Business Assets
Section 1.1(d)
"" shall mean those Assets listed on of the CCE Disclosure Letter.
Excluded Current Assets
Section 1.1(e)
"" shall mean the United States generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied.
GAAP
"" shall mean Coca-Cola Erfrischungsgetranke A.G., a company organized under the Laws of Germany and its successors or assigns and any entity that acquires all or substantially all of the assets or equity of such entity.
German Entity
"" shall mean any Federal, state, local or foreign government, any multinational quasi-governmental authority, any court, administrative, regulatory or other governmental agency, commission or authority, any non-governmental self-regulatory agency, commission or authority, including domestic or foreign stock exchanges and securities regulatory bodies, and any arbitration tribunal.
Governmental Entity
"" shall mean the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of the type described in clause (i), (ii) and (viii) of the definition of "Indebtedness" calculated in accordance with GAAP (as applied in preparing CCE's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009), including the current portion of any such Indebtedness, but excluding (i) any Intercompany Indebtedness (for the avoidance of doubt, Intercompany Indebtedness shall not include any amounts outstanding between CCE and/or any of its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and any North American Joint Venture, on the other hand) (ii) Guarantees, (iii) amounts outstanding under Guarantees and undrawn amounts under the Credit Agreement and any other line of credit, and (iv) undrawn letters of credit. For the avoidance of doubt, Gross Indebtedness shall not include any Indebtedness incurred pursuant to the Financing (which Indebtedness shall not be incurred by any North American Business Entity).
Gross Indebtedness
"" shall mean all substances defined as Hazardous Substances, Oils, Pollutants or Contaminants in the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan, 40 C.F.R.  300.5, or defined as such by, or regulated as such under, any Environmental Law, including any petroleum or petroleum products, by-products or derivatives, radioactive materials, chlorofluorocarbon, hydrochloroflourocarbon, radon, toxic mold, and asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, or polychlorinated biphenyls ("").
Hazardous Materials
PCBs
 
 
"" shall mean the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended.
HSR Act
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, at a particular time, without duplication, (i) any obligations of such Person under any indebtedness for borrowed money whether secured or unsecured, (ii) any indebtedness of such Person evidenced by any note, bond, debenture or other similar debt instruments, (iii) any written commitment by which such Person assures a creditor against loss (including contingent reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit), (iv) any indebtedness of such Person pursuant to a guarantee of indebtedness or payables or other obligations with the same effect to a creditor of another Person, (v) any borrowing of money secured by a Lien on such Person's assets, (vi) any obligation outstanding as of the Effective Time for interest, premiums, penalties, fees, make-whole payments, expenses, indemnities, breakage costs and bank overdrafts with respect to items described in clauses (i) through (v) above, (vii) all obligations of such Person for the deferred and unpaid purchase price associated with acquisitions or divestments (other than trade payables and accrued expenses incurred in the ordinary course of business), (viii) capitalized leases (in accordance with GAAP, as consistently applied by such Person) and (ix) all indebtedness of others referred to above which is directly or indirectly guaranteed by such Person or which such Person has agreed (contingently or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire or in respect of which it has otherwise assured a creditor against loss including through the grant of a security interest upon any assets of such Person.
Indebtedness
"" shall mean all intellectual property and industrial property rights of any kind or nature, including all United States and foreign (i) patents, patent applications and all related continuations, continuations-in-part, divisionals, reissues and extensions thereof, (ii) trademarks, service marks, brand names, trade dress, domain names and other similar designations of source or origin, together with the goodwill symbolized by any of the foregoing (""), (iii) copyrights and copyrightable subject matter, (iv) rights in computer programs (whether in source code, object code, or other form), algorithms, databases, compilations and data, and all documentation, including user manuals and training materials, related to any of the foregoing, (v) trade secrets and all other confidential information, know-how, inventions, proprietary processes, formulae, models, and methodologies, (vi) rights of publicity and privacy, (vii) moral rights and rights of attribution and integrity, (viii) all rights in the foregoing and in other similar intangible assets, and (ix) all applications and registrations for the foregoing.
Intellectual Property Rights
Trademarks
"" shall mean all Contracts (including Contracts in respect of Intercompany Indebtedness) to which any of CCE or the North American Business Subsidiaries, on the one hand, the Other CCE Businesses Entities (including Splitco), on the other hand, are a party.
Intercompany Agreements
"" shall mean, without duplication, (a) the aggregate principal amount of all indebtedness for borrowed money, including all indebtedness evidenced by a note, bond, debenture or similar instrument, together with accrued and unpaid interest
Intercompany Indebtedness
 
thereon, and (b) all accounts or notes payable, in each case, between CCE or any North American Business Subsidiary, on the one hand, and any Other CCE Businesses Entity (including Splitco), on the other hand.
"" shall mean all accounts, notes or other receivables, in each case, between CCE or any North American Business Subsidiary, on the one hand, and Splitco or any of the Other CCE Businesses Entities, on the other hand.
Intercompany Receivables
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" shall mean, with respect to any matter in question, the actual knowledge of each individual set forth in of the TCCC Disclosure Letter.
Knowledge of TCCC
Section 1.1(a)
"" shall mean, with respect to any matter in question, the actual knowledge of each individual set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter.
Knowledge of CCE
Section 1.1(f)
"" shall mean any real property leased or subleased, or any other rights to use or occupy any land, buildings, structures, improvements, fixtures or other interest in real property held by any of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, in each case, primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the North American Business (excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, owned real property), other than any Excluded Business Asset.
Leased Real Property
"" shall mean any and all Indebtedness, liabilities and obligations whether accrued or fixed, known or unknown, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, or determined or determinable of any kind or nature whatsoever, including those arising under any Laws or Action, whether asserted or unasserted, or order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree, stipulation, determination or award entered by or with any Governmental Entity, and those arising under any Contract or any fines, Losses or equitable relief which may be imposed in connection with any of the foregoing and including all costs and expenses related thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Liabilities" does not include Tax liabilities, which are governed by the Tax Sharing Agreement.
Liabilities
"" shall mean any lien, pledge, hypothecation, charge, mortgage, security interest, lease, sublease, license, easement, covenant, right of first refusal, pre-emptive right, transfer restriction, encumbrance or claim on or with respect to any asset or property. For purposes of this Agreement (and without limiting the foregoing), a Person shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any property or asset that it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such property or asset.
Lien
"" shall mean the acquisition by Splitco or a Subsidiary of Splitco of the Nordic Entities pursuant to and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Nordic SPA.
Nordic Acquisition
"" shall mean the "Nordic Companies" as defined in the Nordic SPA.
Nordic Entities
 
 
"" shall mean the CCE Benefit Plans established, maintained or contributed to for the benefit of current or former CCE North American Employees.
North American Benefit Plans
"" shall mean all right, title and interest, as of the Effective Time, of CCE, Splitco and their respective Subsidiaries (including any North American Business Subsidiary) in (x) all North American Corporate Assets and (y) all other Assets primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the North American Business, including:
North American Business Assets
(i) the Owned Real Property;
(ii) the leasehold interests in the Leased Real Property;
(iii) all Equipment (including Equipment held under Equipment Leases) primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the North American Business;
(iv) the Intellectual Property Rights owned by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries (including any North American Business Entity) and primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the North American Business, together with all rights and remedies against past, present and future infringement, misappropriation or other violation thereof;
(v) all Contracts to which CCE or any of its Subsidiaries is party or by which any of the North American Business Assets is subject, in each case that relate primarily to or are used primarily in the operation of the North American Business;
(vi) if and to the extent transferable, the Product Registrations owned, utilized or licensed by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries relating primarily to the products sold by the North American Business;
(vii) all Permits owned, used or licensed by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries relating primarily to or used primarily in the operation of the North American Business;
(viii) all Records, in the possession of CCE or any of its Subsidiaries relating primarily to or used primarily in the operation of the North American Business;
(ix) all inventories of raw materials, work-in-process, finished products and office and other supplies primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the North American Business;
(x) all prepaid expenses, deferred charges, advance payments, security deposits and other prepaid items primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the North American Business;
(xi) all Assets reflected on the Segment Balance Sheet for the year ended December 31, 2009 (subject to any increases, decreases or dispositions thereof as may occur from December 31, 2009 to the Effective Time, as contemplated by this Agreement or not in violation of );
Section 6.1
 
 
(xii) all the North American Business Policies and the Shared Policies and all rights of any nature with respect thereto, including all insurance recoveries thereunder and rights to assert claims with respect to any such insurance recoveries, subject to ;
Section 3.8
(xiii) all accounts, notes and other receivables (other than Intercompany Receivables) to the extent arising out of the operation of the North American Business;
(xiv) all intercompany accounts, notes or receivables, as of the Effective Time, for amounts due and owing solely among or between CCE and any of the North American Business Entities;
(xv) all rights and claims of CCE or its Subsidiaries under any confidentiality agreement or similar document entered into by CCE or its Subsidiaries with third Persons primarily relating to the North American Business;
(xvi) all rights, claims and credits (other than to the extent relating to Other CCE Businesses Liabilities or otherwise excluded pursuant to this Agreement) to the extent primarily relating to any of the foregoing, or any North American Business Liability, including all rights to indemnification to the extent primarily arising out of the operation of the North American Business and all rights in and to products sold or leased (including products returned after the Closing and rights of rescission, replevin and reclamation) in the operation or conduct of the North American Business;
(xvii) the outstanding capital stock, units or other equity interests of (A) each of the North American Business Subsidiaries and (B) to the extent set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, each of the North American Joint Ventures;
Section 4.3(c)(i)
(xviii) all North American Joint Venture Contracts;
(xix) the Assets set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter; and
Section 1.1(g)
(xx) any other Assets of CCE or its Subsidiaries owned, leased or licensed and primarily relating to or primarily used in the operation of the North American Business, if and to the extent that such Assets are not referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this definition;
but in each case of the foregoing, excluding any and all Other CCE Businesses Assets.
"" shall mean CCE, the North American Business Subsidiaries and the North American Joint Ventures.
North American Business Entities
 
 
"" shall mean, except as set forth below in this definition, any and all Liabilities arising out of the operation or conduct of the North American Business or the ownership of the North American Business Assets prior to or, except as contemplated by any Ancillary Agreement, following the Effective Time and TCCC's share of Liabilities, if any, arising out of or resulting from the Separation Transactions, as determined pursuant to . For the avoidance of doubt, the North American Business Liabilities shall include (i) all employment-related and employee benefits-related Liabilities arising out of the operation or conduct of the North American Business, except as specified in the Employee Matters Agreement, (ii) Gross Indebtedness of CCE and its Subsidiaries existing as of the Effective Time not exceeding $8,880,000,000 and any obligations under the agreements governing such Gross Indebtedness, (iii) Liabilities of the Corporate Segment, other than the Other CCE Businesses Allocated Corporate Liabilities, (iv) Liabilities resulting from or arising out of the disposition or past, present or future operation of the Divested Businesses identified in of the CCE Disclosure Letter ("") and (v) Liabilities resulting from or arising out of the use by CCE and its Subsidiaries prior to the Effective Time in connection with the North American Business of any Intellectual Property of TCCC under and in accordance with any license from TCCC or its Subsidiaries. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the North American Business Liabilities shall in no event include any Other CCE Businesses Liabilities.
North American Business Liabilities
Section 3.9
Section 1.1(h)
Selected Divested Businesses
"" shall mean (a) any change, effect, event, occurrence, development, condition or circumstance that, individually or in the aggregate with all other adverse changes, effects, events, occurrences, developments, conditions or circumstances, is, or would reasonably be expected to be materially adverse to the condition (financial or otherwise), properties, assets, Liabilities, business or results of operations of the North American Business or the North American Business Entities, in each case, taken as a whole, other than any change, effect, event, occurrence, development, condition or circumstance resulting from, or relating to, (i) changes in the economy or financial markets generally in the United States, Canada, British Virgin Islands, United States Virgin Islands or the Cayman Islands, (ii) the industry in which the North American Business operates in general, (iii) the execution, announcement or performance of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, including any communication by TCCC regarding the plans or intentions of TCCC with respect to the North American Business, (iv) changes in law after the date of this Agreement, including amendment, modification or adoption of any Tax Law, (v) changes in GAAP or other applicable accounting standards or the interpretations thereof after the date of this Agreement; (vi) acts of God or other calamities, national or international political or social conditions in or affecting any of the countries in which the North American Business operates, including the engagement by any such country in hostilities, whether commenced before or after the date hereof, and whether or not pursuant to the declaration of a national emergency or war, or the occurrence of any military or terrorist attack; (vii) any actions taken, or failures to take action, or such other changes or events, in each case, to which TCCC or Merger Sub have consented in advance in writing; (viii) any failure to meet internal projections or plans, public estimates or expectations relating to CCE or the North American Business (it being understood that the underlying causes of, or factors contributing to, the failure to meet such projections or plans, estimates or expectations may be taken into account in determining whether a North American Business Material Adverse Effect has occurred); (ix) the failure to obtain consent under any Contracts set forth on of the CCE Disclosure Letter or Permits that require consent of
North American Business Material Adverse Effect
Section 4.4(a)
 
the other party or a Governmental Entity as a result of the Transactions; (x) any adverse effect primarily caused by (A) any action taken or inaction by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries to the extent specifically required pursuant to written specifications relating to the manufacture, display or storage of products by the North American Business, delivered to the North American Business by an employee (with a title no less senior than General Manager) of TCCC or its applicable Subsidiaries in their capacity as supplier of the North American Business or (B) any violation of by TCCC or any of its Subsidiaries; and (xi) any legal proceedings made or brought by any of the current or former stockholders of CCE (on their own behalf or on behalf of CCE) against CCE arising out of or in connection with any transactions contemplated by this Agreement; in the case of clauses (i), (ii), (iv), (v) or (vi) if such change, effect, event, occurrence, development, condition or circumstance does not disproportionately adversely affect the North American Business or the North American Business Entities, or (b) the occurrence of a default under any Contract in respect of any Gross Indebtedness of CCE or its Subsidiaries that is in existence immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Section 6.2
"" shall mean all Policies which are owned by CCE or its Subsidiaries prior to the Effective Time that provide coverage solely in respect of the North American Business.
North American Business Policies
"" shall mean each of the entities set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter.
North American Business Subsidiaries
Section 4.3(b)
"" shall mean all Assets (i) used or held for use primarily in the functions and operations of CCE's Corporate Segment or (ii) used or held for use primarily by the Shared Service Operations, including all Assets located at the Shared Service Centers at the Effective Time.
North American Corporate Assets
"" shall mean all Contracts primarily relating to any North American Joint Venture to which CCE or any of its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and such North American Joint Venture or any of its other joint venture partners, on the other hand, is a party or bound.
North American Joint Venture Contracts
"" shall mean each of the entities set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter.
North American Joint Ventures
Section 4.3(c)(i)
"" shall mean the New York Stock Exchange.
NYSE
"" shall mean Liabilities of the Corporate Segment arising prior to the Effective Time:
Other CCE Businesses Allocated Corporate Liabilities
(i) to the extent that such Liabilities arose out of or resulted from the provision of services by the Corporate Segment to the Other CCE Businesses prior to the Effective Time; or
(ii) which are general corporate overhead expenses of CCE and, which are allocated to the Other CCE Businesses consistent with an allocation to be agreed by the parties in connection with the preparation of the S-4 Financial Statements.
 
 
"" shall mean all right, title and interest, at the Effective Time, of CCE, Splitco and their respective Affiliates (including the Other CCE Businesses Entities) in all Excluded Current Assets and any other Assets primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the Other CCE Businesses including:
Other CCE Businesses Assets
(i) all rights of Splitco under this Agreement (and CCE to the extent related to the actions or inactions of TCCC or Merger Sub prior to the Effective Time) and any documents delivered or received in connection herewith;
(ii) all Equipment (including Equipment held under Equipment Leases) primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the Other CCE Businesses;
(iii) the Intellectual Property Rights (including the Trademarks of CCE) owned by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries (including any Other CCE Businesses Entity) and primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the Other CCE Businesses, together with all rights and remedies against past, present and future infringement, misappropriation or other violation thereof;
(iv) all Contracts to which CCE or any of its Subsidiaries is party or by which any of the Other CCE Businesses Assets is subject, in each case that relate primarily to or are used primarily in the operation of the Other CCE Businesses;
(v) if and to the extent transferable, the Product Registrations owned, utilized or licensed by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries relating primarily to the products sold by the Other CCE Businesses;
(vi) all Permits owned, used or licensed by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries relating primarily to or primarily used in the operation of the Other CCE Businesses;
(vii) all Records, in the possession of CCE or any of its Subsidiaries relating primarily to or primarily used in the operation of the Other CCE Businesses;
(viii) all inventories of raw materials, work-in-process, finished products and office and other supplies primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the Other CCE Businesses;
(ix) all prepaid expenses, deferred charges, advance payments, security deposits and other prepaid items primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the Other CCE Businesses;
(x) all Assets which would be reflected on a December 31, 2009 balance sheet for the Other CCE Businesses Entities (subject to any increases, decreases or dispositions thereof as may occur from December 31, 2009 to the Closing as contemplated by this Agreement or not in violation thereof);
 
 
(xi) (A) the Other CCE Businesses Policies and all rights of any nature with respect thereto, including all insurance recoveries thereunder and rights to assert claims with respect to any such insurance recoveries, (B) all insurance policies procured by Splitco pursuant to hereof and (C) all rights of Splitco and its Subsidiaries to assert claims and obtain insurance recoveries under the Shared Policies in accordance with ;
Section 3.8
Section 3.8
(xii) all accounts, notes and other receivables (other than Intercompany Receivables), to the extent arising out of the operation of the Other CCE Businesses;
(xiii) all intercompany accounts, notes or receivables, as of the Closing, for amounts due and owing solely among or between Splitco, and any of the Other CCE Businesses Entities;
(xiv) all rights and claims of CCE or its Subsidiaries under any confidentiality agreement or similar document entered into by CCE or its Subsidiaries with third Persons primarily relating to the Other CCE Businesses;
(xv) all rights, claims and credits (other than to the extent relating to the North American Business Liabilities or otherwise excluded pursuant to this Agreement) to the extent relating to any of the foregoing, or any Other CCE Businesses Liability, including all rights to indemnification to the extent arising out of the operation of the Other CCE Businesses and all rights in and to products sold or leased (including products returned after the Closing and rights of rescission, replevin and reclamation) in the operation or conduct of the Other CCE Businesses;
(xvi) the outstanding capital stock, units or other equity interests of each of the Other CCE Businesses Entities;
(xvii) the Excluded Business Assets; and
(xviii) any other Assets of CCE or its Subsidiaries owned, leased or licensed and primarily relating to or primarily used in the operation of the Other CCE Businesses, if and to the extent that such Assets are not referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this definition;
, , that in no event shall the Other CCE Businesses Assets include the North American Corporate Assets.
provided
however
"" shall mean all of CCE's Subsidiaries and Affiliates other than the North American Business Entities.
Other CCE Businesses Entities
"" shall mean:
Other CCE Businesses Liabilities
(i) any and all Liabilities arising out of the operation or conduct of the Other CCE Businesses or the ownership of the Other CCE Businesses Assets prior to or following the Effective Time;
 
 
(ii) Splitco's share of Liabilities, if any, arising out of or resulting from the Separation Transactions as determined pursuant to ;
Section 3.9
(iii) any and all Liabilities arising out of or resulting from the Financing;
(iv) all employment-related and employee benefits-related Liabilities arising out of the operation or conduct of the Other CCE Businesses, except as specified in the Employee Matters Agreement;
(v) any Gross Indebtedness of CCE and its Subsidiaries existing as of the Effective Time exceeding $8,880,000,000 and any obligations under the agreements governing such Gross Indebtedness;
(vi) the Other CCE Businesses Allocated Corporate Liabilities; and
(vii) any and all Liabilities resulting from or arising out of the disposition or past, present or future operation of any Divested Business, other than any Selected Divested Business.
"" shall mean all Policies which are owned by CCE or its Subsidiaries prior to the Effective Time that provide coverage solely in respect of the Other CCE Businesses.
Other CCE Businesses Policies
"" shall mean all land, together with all buildings, structures, improvements and fixtures located thereon, and all easements and other rights and interests appurtenant thereto owned by any of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, in each case, primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the North American Business (excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, leased real property), other than any Excluded Business Asset.
Owned Real Property
"" shall mean (i) Liens imposed by Law such as mechanics', carriers', workmen's, repairmen's, contractors, warehousemen, carriers or similar Liens arising or incurred in the ordinary course of business with respect to liabilities that are not yet due; (ii) Liens for Taxes, assessments and other governmental charges which are not due and payable or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceeding, in either case, and for which adequate reserves have been made in the Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP, consistently applied; (iii) Liens to secure the payment of all or any part of the price of acquisition, construction or improvement of property by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries, or to secure any secured debt incurred by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries, for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof or construction of improvements thereon and (iv) any Lien (other than a Lien to secure borrowed money) that does not (A) materially interfere with the use or ownership of the property to which they relate in the operation of the North American Business as operated on the date hereof or (B) detract materially from the value of such assets.
Permitted Liens
"" shall mean an individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, joint stock company, unincorporated organization or association, trust or joint venture, or a Governmental Entity.
Person
"" or "" means insurance policies and insurance contracts of any kind, including primary, excess and umbrella, comprehensive general liability, directors and
Policies
Policy
 
officers, automobile, products, workers' compensation, employee dishonesty, property and crime insurance policies and self-insurance and captive insurance company arrangements, together with the rights, benefits and privileges thereunder.
"" shall have the definition ascribed to such term in the Tax Sharing Agreement.
Private Letter Ruling
"" shall mean all registrations of products of CCE and its Subsidiaries existing at the Effective Time, made or filed with any Governmental Entity under applicable Laws.
Product Registrations
"" shall mean all Leased Real Property and Owned Real Property.
Real Property
"" shall mean all leases, subleases, licenses, concessions and other Contracts pursuant to which any of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates holds, uses or occupies, or has the right to hold, use or occupy any Leased Real Property, including the right to all security deposits and other amounts and instruments deposited by or on behalf of any of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates thereunder.
Real Property Leases
"" shall mean any release, spill, emission, discharge, leaking, pumping, injection, deposit, disposal, dispersal or leaching into the environment (including ambient air, indoor air, surface water, groundwater and surface or subsurface strata) of any Hazardous Materials.
Release
"" shall mean a Person's officers, directors, employees, agents, accountants, counsel, advisors, financing sources and other representatives.
Representatives
"" shall mean the affirmative vote of the holders of at least (i) 66
Required CCE Vote
 2
/
3
% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of CCE Common Stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors and (ii) a majority of all outstanding shares of CCE Common Stock (other than any such shares held by TCCC or any of its Subsidiaries or any of its or CCE's executive officers or directors) entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
"" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" means Policies where both the North American Business and the Other CCE Businesses are eligible for coverage and/or Policies where the employees, directors or agents of both the North American Business and the Other CCE Businesses are eligible for coverage.
Shared Policies
"" shall mean the service centers of CCE or its Subsidiaries, identified on of the CCE Disclosure Letter.
Shared Service Centers
Section 1.1(i)
"" shall mean the operations conducted at the Shared Service Centers.
Shared Service Operations
 
 
"" shall mean, when used with respect to any Person, as of any date of determination, (a) the amount of the "fair saleable value" of the assets of such Person shall, as of such date, exceed the value of all "liabilities of such Person and its Subsidiaries, including contingent and other liabilities", as of such date, as such quoted terms are generally determined in accordance with applicable federal laws governing determinations of the insolvency of debtors, (b) such Person and its Subsidiaries shall not have, as of such date, an unreasonably small amount of capital for the operation of the businesses in which it is engaged following such date, and (c) such Person and its Subsidiaries shall be able to pay its liabilities, including contingent and other liabilities, as they mature. For purposes of this definition, "not have an unreasonably small amount of capital for the operation of the businesses in which it is engaged" and "able to pay its liabilities, including contingent and other liabilities, as they mature" means that such Person shall be able to generate enough cash from operations, asset dispositions or refinancing, or a combination thereof, to meet its obligations, as of the date of determination, as they become due.
Solvent
"" shall mean shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Splitco.
Splitco Common Stock
"" or "" shall mean with respect to a specified Person, any other Person of which a majority of the voting power of the voting equity securities or equity interests is owned, directly or indirectly, by such specified Person.
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
"" shall mean the CCE Enterprises Inc. Supplemental Matched Employee Savings & Investment Plan.
Supplemental MESIP
"ital" shall mean $161,296,000, subject to adjustment by mutual agreement of the parties in the event of a material change in the working capital needs of the North American Business arising from changes in the revenues of the North American Business of more than 10% of the revenue in the same period in the prior year during the period between the first day of the fiscal month after the date hereof and the Closing.
Target Adjusted Net Working Cap
"" (and, with correlative meaning, "") shall mean (A) any and all United States federal, state, local and foreign taxes, including income, alternative or add-on minimum, gross receipts, profits, lease, service, service use, wage, employment, workers compensation, business occupation, environmental, estimated, excise, sales, use, transfer, license, payroll, franchise, severance, stamp, occupation, windfall profits, withholding, social security, unemployment, disability, ad valorem, capital stock, paid in capital, recording, registration, property, real property gains, value added, business license, custom duties and other taxes, charges, fees, levies, imposts, duties or assessments of any kind whatsoever, imposed or required to be withheld by any Taxing Authority, including any interest, additions to Tax or penalties applicable or related thereto, (B) any liability for the Taxes of any Person under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6 (or similar provision of state or local law), and (C) any liability for the payment of any amount of a type described in  or  as a result of any obligation to indemnify or otherwise assume or succeed to the liability of any other Person. For the avoidance of doubt, any liability in respect of any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar Law shall not be treated as a Tax.
Tax
Taxable
clause (A)
clause (B)
 
 
"" shall mean the definition ascribed to such term in the Tax Sharing Agreement.
Tax Opinions
"" shall mean any return, report or similar statement (including the attached schedules) required to be filed with respect to any Tax, including any information return, claim for refund, amended return or declaration of estimated Tax.
Tax Return
"" shall mean any Governmental Entity exercising any authority to impose Taxes, or to regulate or administer the imposition or collection of Taxes.
Taxing Authority
"" shall mean the common stock, par value $0.25 per share, of TCCC.
TCCC Common Stock
"" shall mean the disclosure letter delivered by TCCC to CCE contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement and dated as of the date hereof.
TCCC Disclosure Letter
"" shall have the definition ascribed to such term in the Tax Sharing Agreement.
TCCC Tax Opinion
"" shall mean the definition ascribed to such term within the definition of "Intellectual Property Rights" in this .
Trademarks
Section 1.1
"" shall mean all fees, costs and expenses incurred by, or on behalf of, CCE, TCCC or their respective Subsidiaries (including the North American Business Subsidiaries) (and including costs and expenses of any North American Joint Venture to the extent allocable to, or required to be paid by, CCE or its Subsidiaries) or the CCE Board, or the Boards of Directors of Splitco or TCCC in order to effect the Separation Transactions, the Financing, the Merger and all other Transactions, including: (a) all legal, accounting, financial advisor and other advisory fees and expenses associated with effecting the Separation Transactions, the Financing, the Merger and the other Transactions; (b) all legal, accounting, financial advisor, proxy solicitor, public relations advisor and other advisory fees and expenses associated with obtaining the Private Letter Ruling and the Tax Opinions; and (c) all fees and expenses owed to Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Lazard Frres & Co. LLC, Greenhill & Co, LLC, Allen & Company LLC, and Goldman Sachs & Co. and any other broker or advisor engaged in connection with effecting the Transactions.
Transaction Expenses
1.2 . The following terms are defined elsewhere in this Agreement in the following Sections:
Terms Defined in Other Sections
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3 . Unless otherwise expressly provided, for the purposes of this Agreement the following rules of interpretation shall apply:
Interpretation and Rules of Construction
(a) The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
(b) When a reference is made in this Agreement to an article or a section, paragraph, exhibit or schedule, such reference shall be to an article or a section, paragraph, exhibit or schedule of this Agreement unless otherwise clearly indicated to the contrary.
(c) Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation."
(d) The words "hereof," "herein" and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement.
 
 
(e) Unless otherwise indicated, all references to "the date hereof" shall mean the date of this Agreement.
(f) The meaning assigned to each term defined herein shall be equally applicable to both the singular and the plural forms of such term, and words denoting any gender shall include all genders. Where a word or phrase is defined herein, each of its other grammatical forms shall have a corresponding meaning.
(g) A reference to "$," "U.S. dollars" or "dollars," shall mean the legal tender of the United States of America.
(h) A reference to any legislation or to any provision of any legislation shall include any amendment to, and any modification or re-enactment thereof, any legislative provision substituted therefor and all rules, regulations and statutory instruments issued thereunder or pursuant thereto.
(i) Except as otherwise expressly stated in this Agreement, nothing in or addressed by any representation or warranty made by any Person in this Agreement shall in any way limit or restrict the scope, applicability, meaning of or the matters addressed by any other representation or warranty made by such Person herein.
(j) A reference to any period of days shall be deemed to be to the relevant number of calendar days unless otherwise specified.
(k) The parties have been represented by counsel and have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement. In the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provisions of this Agreement.
2.1 . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, the parties shall cause the Merger and Separation Transactions to be consummated as set forth below. The parties hereto intend that none of the Merger or the Separation Transactions shall become effective unless all of such transactions become effective.
The Transactions
(a) . As more fully described in attached hereto, prior to the Effective Time, and subject to hereof, (i) CCE shall to the extent necessary cause all of the equity interests in the Other CCE Businesses Entities directly or indirectly to be owned by Splitco, (ii) CCE and Splitco shall take, or cause to be taken, all necessary actions such that (A) CCE will hold, directly or indirectly, all right, title and interest to the equity interests of each of the other North American Business Entities free and clear of all Liens (other than Liens arising out of pledges of the equity interests of any of the North American Business Subsidiaries pursuant to the Credit Agreement or to the extent arising out of any North American Joint Venture Contract) and Splitco will hold, directly or indirectly, all right, title and interest to
Separation Transactions
Schedule A
Article III
 
the equity interests of each of the Other CCE Businesses Entities, free and clear of all Liens, (B) (1) CCE or one of the North American Business Subsidiaries shall own all of the North American Business Assets free and clear of all Liens other than Permitted Liens and be liable for the North American Business Liabilities and (2) Splitco or one of the Other CCE Businesses Entities shall own all of the Other CCE Businesses Assets and be liable for the Other CCE Businesses Liabilities, (iii) CCE shall take, or cause to be taken, all necessary actions to transfer to Splitco the Excluded Business Assets and Excluded Current Assets and (iv) TCCC shall take, or cause to be taken, all necessary actions to effect all the payments to Splitco that TCCC is required to make pursuant to . In furtherance of the foregoing, CCE and Splitco shall take, or shall cause to be taken, all necessary action such that following the Effective Time, CCE shall not have any direct or indirect ownership interest in Splitco or the Other CCE Businesses Entities and Splitco and the Other CCE Businesses Entities shall not have any direct or indirect ownership interest in the North American Business Entities. CCE and Splitco and, as applicable, TCCC, shall cause the Separation Transactions to be completed in compliance with the steps, and in the order, specifically described on or as otherwise consented to by the other party in writing (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, that any such deviation from does not adversely affect, in any material respect, such party or its Subsidiaries (including, in the case of TCCC, the North American Business Entities), or the benefits expected to be derived by such party as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements (collectively, the ""). If the applicable parties consent to a deviation from in accordance with this (in which case, the parties shall cause to be revised accordingly), then for purposes of this Agreement, all references to shall be deemed to be references to as so revised.
Schedule A
Schedule A
provided
Schedule A
Transactions
Schedule A
Section 2.1(a)
Schedule A
Schedule A
Schedule A
(b) . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereof, and in accordance with the DGCL and the DLLCA, Merger Sub shall be merged with and into CCE at the Effective Time of the Merger, with CCE continuing as the Surviving Corporation, and the separate existence of Merger Sub shall thereupon cease. As the Surviving Corporation in the Merger, CCE shall succeed to and assume all the rights and obligations of Merger Sub and CCE in accordance with Section 264 of the DGCL and Section 209 of the DLLCA.
The Merger
2.2 . Subject to, and in accordance with, the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the closing of the Separation Transactions and the Merger (the "") shall take place at the office of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, Four Times Square, New York, N.Y. at 10:00 A.M., local time, on the first day of the Accounting Cycle (or if not a Business Day, the next Business Day) beginning after the date on which the conditions set forth in hereof have been satisfied or waived (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, but subject to the satisfaction or waiver of those conditions), or at such other time and place as TCCC and CCE may mutually agree in writing (the ""). The parties shall cooperate in good faith to cause the Closing and the closing contemplated by the Nordic SPA to occur contemporaneously.
The Closing
Closing
Article VII
Closing Date
2.3 . The Merger shall become effective when a certificate of merger evidencing the Merger (the ""), executed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the DGCL, is duly filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, or at such other date and time as are agreed between the parties and specified in the Certificate of
Effective Time
Certificate of Merger
 
Merger. When used in this Agreement, the term "" shall mean the later of the date and time at which the Certificate of Merger is duly filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware or such later time established by the Certificate of Merger. The filing of the Certificate of Merger shall be made on the Closing Date.
Effective Time
2.4 .
Effects of the Merger
(a) . At the Effective Time each Merger Sub Membership Interest shall be converted into one validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock, par value $1.00 per share of the Surviving Corporation.
Conversion of Merger Sub Interests
(b) . At the Effective Time, each outstanding share of CCE Common Stock, other than any (i) Cancelled Shares and (ii) shares of CCE Common Stock (and together with the Cancelled Shares, the "") that are owned by stockholders ("") who have perfected and not withdrawn a demand for appraisal rights pursuant to Section 262 of the DGCL, shall be converted into the right to receive (i) 1.000 (the "") share of validly issued, fully paid, non-assessable Splitco Common Stock (such number of shares, the ""), and (ii) $10.00 in cash, without interest (the "" and, together with the Stock Consideration, the ""). Upon such conversion, each such share of CCE Common Stock shall be cancelled and each holder of shares of CCE Common Stock, other than any Excluded Shares, immediately prior to the Effective Time shall thereafter cease to have any rights with respect to such CCE Common Stock except the right to receive the Merger Consideration and cash in lieu of any fractional shares payable pursuant to this . In no case shall CCE retain any shares of Splitco Common Stock following the Effective Time. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, all fractional shares of Splitco Common Stock that a holder of shares of CCE Common Stock would otherwise be entitled to receive as a result of the Merger shall be aggregated and if a fractional share results from such aggregation, such holder shall be entitled to receive, in lieu thereof, an amount in cash without interest determined by multiplying the closing price of a share of Splitco Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the trading day immediately following the day on which the Effective Time occurs by the fraction of a share of Splitco Common Stock to which such holder would otherwise have been entitled.
Effect of Merger on CCE Common Stock
Excluded Shares
Di
s
senting Stockholders
Exchange Ratio
Stock Consideration
Cash Consideration
Merger Consideration
Section 2.4(b)
(c) . Each Excluded Share shall, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of the holder of the Excluded Share, cease to be outstanding, be cancelled and retired and shall cease to exist as of the Effective Time, and no consideration shall be delivered in exchange therefor or in respect thereof, subject to any rights the holder thereof may have under .
Cancellation of Excluded Shares
Section 2.5(h)
(d) . The certificate of incorporation in the form to be determined by Merger Sub prior to the Effective Time shall be the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter amended in accordance with applicable Law.
Certificate of Incorporation of the Surviving Corporation
 
 
(e) . The by-laws in the form to be determined by Merger Sub prior to the Effective Time shall be the by-laws of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter amended in accordance with applicable Law.
By-Laws of the Surviving Corporation
(f) . TCCC and Merger Sub shall take all necessary actions to appoint, effective as of the Effective Time, such directors and officers of the Surviving Corporation as TCCC and Merger Sub shall determine, and from and after the Effective Time, until successors are duly elected or appointed and qualified in accordance with applicable Law, such directors and officers shall be the directors and officers, respectively, of the Surviving Corporation.
Directors and Officers of the Surviving Corporation
(g) .
Effect on CCE Equity Awards
(i) Each option to purchase CCE Common Stock granted under a CCE shareholder-approved equity compensation plan (a "") that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and that is held by a CCE North American Employee or a former employee of the North American Business (other than Transferred CCE North American Employees, as defined in the Employee Matters Agreement) (a "") shall be replaced as of the Effective Time with an option to purchase TCCC Common Stock (a ""). The per share exercise price of each such TCCC Option shall be equal to the product (which shall be rounded up to the nearest whole cent) of (A) the exercise price of such CCE Option immediately before the Effective Time and (B) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the TCCC Stock Price and the denominator of which shall be the CCE Stock Price. The number of shares of TCCC Common Stock subject to each TCCC Option shall be equal to the product (which shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share) of (A) the number of shares subject to the CCE Option as of the Effective Time and (B) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the CCE Stock Price and the denominator of which shall be the TCCC Stock Price. All such TCCC Options shall be subject to terms, vesting conditions, and other conditions that are the same as were applicable to the CCE Options immediately prior to the Effective Time. The "" shall mean the closing price of TCCC Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the full trading day occurring on or immediately before the Closing Date. The "" shall mean the closing price of CCE Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the full trading day occurring on or immediately before the Closing Date.
CCE
Option
North American Business Holder
TCCC
Option
TCCC
Stock Price
CCE
Stock Price
(ii) Each CCE Option that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and that is not replaced pursuant to shall be replaced as of the Effective Time with an option to purchase Splitco Common Stock (a ""). The per share exercise price of each such Splitco Option shall be equal to the product (which shall be rounded up to the nearest whole cent) of (A) the exercise price of such CCE Option immediately before the Effective Time and (B) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the Splitco Stock Price and the denominator of which shall be the CCE Stock Price. The number of shares of Splitco Common Stock subject to each Splitco Option shall be equal to the product of (A) the number of shares subject to the CCE Option as of the Effective Time (which shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share) and (B) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the CCE Stock Price and the
Section 2.4(g)(i)
Splitco O
p
tion
 
denominator of which shall be the Splitco Stock Price. All such Splitco Options shall be subject to terms, vesting conditions, and other conditions that are the same as were applicable to the CCE Options immediately prior to the Effective Time. The "" shall mean the closing price of Splitco Common Stock trading, on a "when issued" basis, if applicable, on the New York Stock Exchange on the full trading day occurring on or immediately before the Closing Date; , , that if as of the Closing Date there is no "when issued" closing price of Splitco Common Stock, Splitco shall identify a price for the Splitco Common Stock intended to achieve the same result.
Splitco Stock Price
provided
however
(iii) Each CCE restricted or performance stock unit granted under a CCE shareholder-approved equity compensation plan (including each unit attributable to the deemed investment in CCE Common Stock under the Supplemental MESIP and deferred stock units under the CCE Deferred Stock Plan) (a "") that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and that is held by a North American Business Holder shall be replaced upon the Effective Time with a restricted or performance stock unit (or deemed investment) with respect to TCCC Common Stock (a ""). The number of such TCCC Stock Units shall be equal to the product (which shall be rounded up to the nearest whole share) of (A) the number of CCE Stock Units as of the Effective Time and (B) a fraction, the numerator of which is the CCE Stock Price and the denominator of which is the TCCC Stock Price. All such TCCC Stock Units shall be subject to terms, vesting conditions, and other conditions that are the same as were applicable to the CCE Stock Units immediately prior to the Effective Time, including an entitlement to the same value of cash dividend equivalents, whether accrued prior to or after the Effective Time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any vesting conditions of the CCE Stock Units that are based on attaining a particular stock price shall be adjusted to reflect the transactions contemplated hereby by multiplying the CCE stock price target by a fraction, the numerator of which is the TCCC Stock Price and the denominator of which is the CCE Stock Price, and any vesting conditions of the CCE Stock Units that are based on attaining a particular level of earnings per share shall be adjusted as provided in of the Employee Matters Agreement.
CCE
Stock Unit
TCCC
Stock Unit
Section 3.2(c)
(iv) Each CCE Stock Unit that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and that is not replaced pursuant to shall be replaced upon the Effective Time with a restricted or performance stock unit (or deemed investment) with respect to Splitco Common Stock (a ""). The number of such Splitco Stock Units shall be equal to the product (which shall be rounded up to the nearest whole share) of (A) the number of CCE Stock Units as of the Effective Time and (B) a fraction, the numerator of which is the CCE Stock Price and the denominator of which is the Splitco Stock Price. All such Splitco Stock Units shall be subject to terms, vesting conditions, and other conditions that are the same as were applicable to the CCE Stock Units immediately prior to the Effective Time, including an entitlement to the same value of cash dividend equivalents, whether accrued prior to or after the Effective Time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any vesting conditions of the CCE Stock Units that are based on attaining a particular stock price or a particular level of earnings per share shall be adjusted or waived as determined by Splitco in its sole discretion.
Section 2.4(g)(iii)
Splitco Stock Unit
 
 
(v) Each share of restricted CCE Common Stock granted under a CCE shareholder-approved equity compensation plan ("") that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and that is held by a North American Business Holder shall be cancelled immediately prior to the Effective Time and replaced with a share of restricted TCCC Common Stock (""). The number of shares of such TCCC Restricted Stock shall be equal to the product (which shall be rounded up to the nearest whole share) of (A) the number of shares of CCE Restricted Stock as of the Effective Time and (B) a fraction, the numerator of which is the CCE Stock Price and the denominator of which is the TCCC Stock Price. All such shares of TCCC Restricted Stock shall be subject to terms, vesting conditions, and other conditions that are the same as were applicable to the CCE Restricted Stock immediately prior to the Effective Time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any vesting conditions of the CCE Restricted Stock that are based on attaining a particular stock price shall be adjusted to reflect the transactions contemplated hereby by multiplying the CCE stock price target by a fraction, the numerator of which is the TCCC Stock Price and the denominator of which is the CCE Stock Price.
CCE
Restricted Stock
TCCC
Restricted Stock
(vi) Each share of CCE Restricted Stock that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and that is not replaced pursuant to shall be exchanged for a number of shares of Splitco Common Stock equal to the product (which shall be rounded up to the nearest whole share) of (A) the number of such shares of CCE Restricted Stock and (B) the Exchange Ratio. Holders of such shares of CCE Restricted Stock shall also receive a payment of Cash Consideration equal to the amount such holders would have received if they had held fully vested shares of CCE Restricted Stock. Such Splitco Common Stock (the "") shall be subject to terms, vesting conditions, and other conditions that are the same as were applicable to the CCE Restricted Stock immediately prior to the Effective Time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any vesting conditions of the CCE Restricted Stock that are based on attaining a particular stock price shall be adjusted or waived as determined by Splitco in its sole discretion. If any such waiver results in the Splitco Restricted Stock being vested and subject to no further restrictions, then each affected holder shall hold fully vested Splitco Common Stock.
Section 2.4(g)(v)
Splitco Restricted Stock
(vii) The parties shall cooperate to share appropriate information necessary to administer the awards referred to in this , including information required for vesting and forfeiture of awards, Tax withholding, remittance, and reporting, compliance with trading windows, and compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act and other applicable Laws (including foreign Laws). The parties mutually agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain effective registration statements with the SEC with respect to the awards described in this , to the extent any such registration statement is required by applicable Law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the conversion of a CCE Option in accordance with the preceding provisions of this would cause the related TCCC Option or Splitco Option, as the case may be, to be treated as the grant of a new stock right for purposes of Section 409A of the Code, such CCE Option shall not be converted in accordance with the preceding provisions but shall instead be converted in a manner that would not cause the related TCCC Option or Splitco Option, as the case may be, to be treated as the grant of a new stock
Section 2.4(g)
Section 2.4(g)
Section 2.4(g)
 
right for purposes of Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this , to the extent any of the provisions hereof do not conform with applicable foreign Laws, such provisions shall be modified to the extent necessary to conform with such foreign Laws, in such manner as is equitable and to preserve the intent hereof, as determined by the parties in good faith.
Section 2.4(g)
2.5 .
Exchange Procedures
(a) . Substantially concurrently with the Effective Time, CCE and Splitco shall deposit (as applicable), with a bank or trust company mutually acceptable to TCCC and CCE (the ""), pursuant to an agreement in form and substance reasonably acceptable to TCCC, CCE and Splitco, in trust for the benefit of holders of shares of CCE Common Stock other than the Excluded Shares, (i) certificates representing shares of Splitco Common Stock sufficient to pay the Stock Consideration and (ii) cash in an amount sufficient to pay the Cash Consideration in exchange for all of the shares of CCE Common Stock (other than the Excluded Shares) outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (the ""), payable upon due surrender of the certificates that immediately prior to the Effective Time represented shares of CCE Common Stock ("") (or effective affidavits of loss in lieu thereof) or non-certificated shares of CCE Common Stock represented by book-entry ("") pursuant to this . Following the Effective Time, Splitco shall make available to the Exchange Agent, as needed, (x) cash in amounts that are sufficient to pay cash in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to , (y) additional shares of Splitco Common Stock as are necessary to pay the Stock Consideration, and (z) additional cash as may be necessary to pay the Cash Consideration.
Exchange Agent
Exchange Agent
E
x
change Fund
Certificates
Book-Entry Shares
Article II
Section 2.4(b)
(b) .
Exchange Procedures
(i) As soon as reasonably practicable after the Effective Time, and in any event not later than the second (2nd) Business Day following the Effective Time, TCCC shall cause the Exchange Agent to mail to each holder of record of shares of CCE Common Stock whose shares of CCE Common Stock were converted into the applicable Merger Consideration pursuant to , (x) a letter of transmittal (which shall specify that delivery of Certificates and/or Book-Entry Shares shall be effected, and risk of loss and title thereto shall pass, only upon delivery of Certificates (or effective affidavits of loss in lieu thereof) or Book-Entry Shares to the Exchange Agent and which shall be in such form and have such other provisions as agreed to by TCCC, CCE and Splitco) and (y) instructions for use in effecting the surrender of Certificates (or effective affidavits of loss in lieu thereof) or Book-Entry Shares in exchange for the Merger Consideration.
Section 2.4(b)
(ii) Upon surrender of Certificates (or effective affidavits of loss in lieu thereof) or Book-Entry Shares to the Exchange Agent together with such letter of transmittal, duly completed and validly executed in accordance with the instructions thereto, and such other documents as may customarily be required thereby or by the Exchange Agent, the holder of such Certificates or Book-Entry Shares shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefor the applicable Merger Consideration in respect of the shares of CCE Common Stock held prior to the Effective Time represented by its Certificates or Book-Entry Shares. No interest will be paid or accrued on any amount payable upon due surrender of Certificates or
 
Book-Entry Shares. In the event of a transfer of ownership of a Certificate that is not registered in the transfer records of CCE, the applicable Merger Consideration may be paid to the transferee thereof if the Certificate formerly representing such shares of CCE Common Stock is presented to the Exchange Agent, accompanied by all documents required to evidence and effect such transfer and to evidence that any applicable share transfer taxes have been paid or are not applicable. Until surrendered as contemplated by this , each Certificate and Book-Entry Share shall, subject to the provisions of , be deemed at any time after the Effective Time of the Merger to represent only the right to receive upon surrender the applicable Merger Consideration (without interest) as contemplated by this .
Section 2.5
Section 2.4
Article II
(iii) The Exchange Agent shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise payable under this Agreement to any holder of shares of CCE Common Stock such amounts as are required to be withheld or deducted under the Code, or any provision of United States state or local Tax Law with respect to the making of such payment. Amounts so withheld or deducted and paid over to the applicable Governmental Entity will be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the holder of the shares of CCE Common Stock in respect of which such deduction and withholding were made.
(c) . At the Effective Time, the share transfer books of CCE will be closed, and there will be no further registration of transfers on the share transfer books of the Surviving Corporation of the shares of CCE Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time. If, after the Effective Time, Certificates or Book-Entry Shares are presented to the Surviving Corporation or Splitco for transfer, they will be cancelled and exchanged for the applicable Merger Consideration in accordance with the applicable provisions of this .
Closing of Share Transfer Books
Article II
(d) . The Merger Consideration paid upon the surrender of Certificates or transfer of Book-Entry Shares in accordance with the terms of this shall be deemed to have been paid in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to the shares of CCE Common Stock formerly represented by such Certificates or Book-Entry Shares.
No Further Ownership Rights in CCE Common Stock
Article II
(e) . Any portion of the Exchange Fund (including the proceeds of any investments thereof) that remains undistributed to the former holders of shares of CCE Common Stock on the first (1st) anniversary of the Effective Time of the Merger will be delivered to Splitco upon demand, and any former holder of shares of CCE Common Stock who has not surrendered or transferred its Certificates in accordance with the applicable provisions of this shall thereafter look only to Splitco for payment of any claim for the Merger Consideration upon due surrender or transfer of such Certificates or Book-Entry Shares.
Termination of Exchange Fund
Article II
(f) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, none of CCE, Splitco, Merger Sub, the Surviving Corporation, TCCC, the Exchange Agent or any other Person will be liable to any former holder of shares of CCE Common Stock for any amount properly delivered to a Governmental Entity pursuant to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar Law.
No Liability
 
 
(g) . Upon the making of an affidavit that any Certificate has been lost, stolen or destroyed by the Person claiming such Certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed and, if required by the Exchange Agent, the posting by such Person of a bond in customary amount as indemnity against any claim that may be made against it with respect to such Certificate, the Exchange Agent will issue in exchange for such lost, stolen or destroyed Certificate the applicable Merger Consideration represented by such lost, stolen or destroyed Certificate.
Lost Certificates
(h) . Notwithstanding hereof, no Person who has perfected a demand for appraisal rights pursuant to Section 262 of the DGCL shall be entitled to receive any portion of the Merger Consideration with respect to the shares of CCE Common Stock owned by such Person unless and until such Person shall have effectively withdrawn or lost such Person's right to appraisal under the DGCL. Each Dissenting Stockholder shall be entitled to receive only the payment provided by Section 262 of the DGCL, net of any amount required to be withheld or deducted under any Tax Law, with respect to the shares of CCE Common Stock owned by such Dissenting Stockholder. CCE shall give TCCC prompt notice of any written demands for appraisal, attempted withdrawals of such demands, and any other instruments served pursuant to applicable Laws that are received by CCE relating to stockholders' rights of appraisal. Prior to the Effective Time, CCE shall not, except with the prior written consent of TCCC, voluntarily make any payment with respect to any demands for appraisal, offer to settle or settle any such demands or approve any withdrawal of any such demands.
Appraisal Rights
Section 2.4(b)
3.1 .
Ancillary Agreements
(a) Concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, CCE, Splitco and TCCC (or their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall execute and deliver or, as applicable, cause their appropriate Subsidiary or Affiliate to execute and deliver, each of the following agreements:
(i) the Tax Sharing Agreement among CCE, Splitco and TCCC, a copy of which is attached hereto as (the ""); and
Exhibit I
Tax Sharing Agreement
(ii) the Employee Matters Agreement among CCE, Splitco and TCCC, a copy of which is attached hereto as (the "").
Exhibit II
Employee Matters Agreement
(b) At the Closing, CCE, Splitco and TCCC (or their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall execute and deliver or, as applicable, cause their appropriate Subsidiary or Affiliate to execute and deliver, each of the following agreements:
(i) the Corporate Name Letter between TCCC and Splitco (the ""), substantially in the form set forth in attached hereto;
Co
r
porate Name Letter
Exhibit III
 
 
(ii) the Transition Services Agreement between TCCC and Splitco (the ""), substantially in the form set forth in attached hereto; and
Transition Services Agreement
Exhibit IV
(iii) a Bottler's Agreement for each of the jurisdictions, and between the parties, set forth in attached hereto (each, a ""), substantially in the form set forth as attached hereto.
Exhibit V-1
Bottler
'
s Agreement
Exhibit V-2
Collectively, the agreements listed in foregoing and , are referred to as the "".
Sections 3.1(a)
3.1(b)
Ancillary Agreements
3.2 .
Intercompany Obligations; Affiliate Agreements; Acquired Contracts
(a) Except as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, as of the Effective Time, CCE and Splitco shall, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to, cause all Intercompany Agreements (other than Ancillary Agreements) to be terminated in all respects such that there is no cost or liability on the part of CCE or any North American Business Subsidiary thereunder or in connection with such termination.
Section 3.2(a)
(b) In furtherance and not in limitation of or any other provision of this Agreement, all Intercompany Indebtedness outstanding on the date hereof and not repaid at or prior to the Closing or incurred after the date hereof and not repaid at or prior to the Closing, and any related Intercompany Receivables, shall be contributed or transferred to the party to whom such indebtedness is owed (or any of its designees) or receivable is owing (or any of its designees) or, at such person's request, cancelled, immediately prior to the Closing such that, at the Effective Time, no such Intercompany Indebtedness or Intercompany Receivables shall be outstanding.
Section 3.2(a)
3.3 .
Contracts; Shared Contracts
(a) At or prior to the Closing, CCE and Splitco shall cause, to the extent required, and subject to receiving the required consent of any Person, (i) all Contracts relating primarily to the North American Business to be assigned to CCE or one of the North American Business Subsidiaries as designated in writing by TCCC and (ii) all Contracts relating primarily to the Other CCE Businesses to be assigned to Splitco or one of the Other CCE Businesses Entities as designated in writing by Splitco.
(b) CCE and Splitco shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause each Contract under which goods or services are provided by a third party to CCE and its Affiliates in respect of both the North American Business and the Other CCE Businesses (collectively, ""), which is intended to continue to provide goods and services to both the North American Business and the Other CCE Businesses after the Effective Time to, subject to receiving any required consent of any Person, be separated into separate Contracts between the appropriate third party and either the North American Business or the Other CCE Businesses, as the case may be, in all material respects on the same terms and conditions as in existence on the date hereof. In the event that any such separation is not completed prior to the Closing, the Contracts shall be assigned in accordance with and the parties agree to cooperate and provide reasonable assistance prior to, and for a period of twelve (12) months following, the
Shared Contracts
Section 3.3(a)
 
Closing in effecting the separation of such Shared Contracts. With respect to any Shared Contract that has not been separated on or prior to the Closing, CCE and Splitco shall, to the extent permitted by such Shared Contract, at or prior to the Closing enter into a transitional services agreement reasonably satisfactory to each party which shall provide for CCE or Splitco, as applicable, to continue to receive the benefits and to continue to perform the obligations under such Shared Contract on, subject to the following sentence, the same terms; , that any such arrangement shall terminate upon the earlier of twelve (12) months following the Closing and at such time as the underlying Shared Contract terminates, expires or is separated. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, TCCC and Splitco shall share equally any additional costs imposed by a third party as a result of the arrangements contemplated by this . For the avoidance of doubt, all Shared Contracts that relate primarily to, or are used primarily in the operation of, the North American Business shall be deemed to be North American Business Assets for purposes of this Agreement.
provided
Section 3.3(b)
(c) Following the Closing, to the extent that CCE or one of its Affiliates, on the one hand, or Splitco or one of its Affiliates, on the other hand is, has been or is to be provided the benefits from and after the Effective Time of any Shared Contract pursuant to , CCE (in the case of benefits provided to or in respect of the North American Business) or Splitco (in the case of benefits provided to or in respect of the Other CCE Businesses) shall pay, perform and discharge fully, or shall cause to be paid, performed and discharged, promptly when due, for the benefit of the issuer thereof, or the other party or parties thereto, the obligations of the relevant CCE Affiliate or Splitco Affiliate, as the case may be, thereunder or in connection therewith, but only to the extent that such performance pertains to, or is related to, the providing (past, present or future) of benefits to the North American Business or the Other CCE Businesses, as applicable; , , that if a party shall fail to perform to the extent required herein and such failure continues for 20 Business Days following notice thereof to CCE or Splitco, as applicable, the other party shall thereafter cease to be obligated under this to provide the transitional services contemplated by which are the subject of such failure to perform, unless and until such situation is remedied; , , , that such failure to perform shall not excuse a party from its obligations under this .
Section 3.3(b)
provided
however
Section 3.3(c)
Section 3.3(b)
provided
further
however
Section 3.3(c)
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this is intended to supersede or amend any terms set forth in an Ancillary Agreement.
Section 3.3
3.4 .
CCE Directors and Officers
(a) At the Closing, to the extent requested in writing by TCCC at least five (5) Business Days prior to the Closing Date, CCE and Splitco shall cause to be delivered to TCCC and CCE duly executed resignations from the officers and directors of each of the North American Business Entities (with respect to the North American Joint Ventures, to the extent of any contractual or other rights of CCE and its Subsidiaries with respect thereto) specified by TCCC, effective as of the Effective Time, and shall take such other action as is reasonably necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
(b) On or prior to the Closing, to the extent requested in writing by TCCC at least five (5) Business Days prior to the Closing Date, CCE shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, as applicable, appoint the individuals identified by TCCC in the said notice to be appointed as
 
a director of the North American Business Entities other than CCE (with respect to the North American Joint Venture, to the extent of any contractual or other rights of CCE and its Subsidiaries with respect thereto), as applicable, effective as of the Effective Time.
3.5 .
Splitco Organization; Name
(a) At or prior to the Effective Time, CCE and Splitco shall take all necessary actions to adopt an amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws of Splitco and, prior to the Effective Time, the certificate of incorporation shall provide for a number of authorized shares of Splitco Common Stock that is sufficient to deliver the Stock Consideration.
(b) Prior to the Effective Time, CCE and Splitco shall designate those individuals to serve as officers and directors of Splitco following the Effective Time, and on or prior to the Effective Time, CCE and Splitco shall take all necessary actions to appoint such Splitco officers and directors, effective as of the Effective Time.
(c) TCCC and CCE agree that from and after the Effective Time, Splitco's name shall be Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (subject to the Corporate Name Letter).
3.6 .
Guarantees
(a) CCE and Splitco shall each use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause Splitco or one or more of its Subsidiaries (other than any North American Business Entity) to be substituted in all respects for the North American Business Entities, as applicable, and for the North American Business Entities, as applicable, to be otherwise removed or released, effective as of the Closing, in respect of all obligations of any of the North American Business Entities, as applicable, under each guarantee, indemnity, surety bond, letter of credit and letter of comfort (each, a ""), given or obtained by any of the North American Business Entities, as applicable, for the benefit of any of Splitco, the Other CCE Businesses Entities or the Other CCE Businesses, except with respect to the Guarantees set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter. If CCE and Splitco have been unable to effect any such substitution, removal, release and termination with respect to any such Guarantee following the Closing, CCE and Splitco shall continue to use their commercially reasonable efforts to effect such substitution, removal, release and termination as soon as reasonably practicable after the Closing; , that from and after Closing, Splitco shall indemnify against, hold harmless and promptly reimburse the North American Business Entities or their respective Affiliates for any payments made by the North American Business Entities or their respective Affiliates and for the Losses of the North American Business Entities or their respective Affiliates arising out of, or in performing, in whole or in part, any performance obligation in accordance with the underlying obligation under any such Guarantee (except to the extent the performance obligation under any such Guarantee shall have been triggered solely by an act or failure to act of the applicable guarantor (rather than the underlying obligor)).
Guarantee
Section 3.6(a)
provided
(b) CCE and Splitco shall each use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause one or more of the North American Business Entities to be substituted in all respects for Splitco or any of the Other CCE Businesses Entities, as applicable, and for Splitco or any of the Other CCE Businesses Entities, as applicable, to be otherwise removed or released, effective as
 
of the Closing, in respect of all obligations of Splitco or any of the Other CCE Businesses Entities, as applicable, under each Guarantee given or obtained by Splitco or any of the Other CCE Businesses Entities, as applicable, for the benefit of any of the North American Business Entities or the North American Business, except with respect to the Guarantees set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter. If CCE and Splitco have been unable to effect any such substitution, removal, release and termination with respect to any such Guarantee following the Closing, CCE and Splitco shall continue to use their commercially reasonable efforts to effect such substitution, removal, release and termination as soon as reasonably practicable after the Closing; , that from and after the Closing, CCE shall indemnify against, hold harmless and promptly reimburse Splitco and the Other CCE Businesses Entities for any payments made by Splitco, the Other CCE Businesses Entities or their respective Affiliates and for the Losses of Splitco, the Other CCE Businesses Entities or their respective Affiliates arising out of, or in performing, in whole or in part, any performance obligation in accordance with the underlying obligation under any such Guarantee (except to the extent the performance obligation under any such Guarantee shall have been triggered solely by an act or failure to act of the applicable guarantor (rather than the underlying obligor)).
Section 3.6(b)
provided
(c) Between the date of this Agreement and the Closing, CCE and Splitco shall promptly deliver to TCCC a copy of any Guarantees arising after the date of this Agreement or otherwise not included on of the CCE Disclosure Letter or of the CCE Disclosure Letter, as applicable.
Section 4.25(a)
Section 4.25(b)
3.7 .
Required Transfers of Misallocated Assets
(a) If TCCC, CCE or Splitco or any of their respective Affiliates discovers at any time following the Closing that there exists any Asset owned or held by Splitco or one of its Affiliates that is a North American Business Asset as of the Effective Time, the relevant Person shall transfer (or procure the transfer of) to the applicable Affiliate of TCCC all right, title and interest in and to such Asset owned or held by such Person at no additional cost to any of TCCC, the North American Business Entities or any of their respective Affiliates in a manner and on terms consistent with the relevant provisions of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, including and hereof. Splitco shall reimburse TCCC for any cost and expense reasonably incurred by any of TCCC, the North American Business Entities or any of their respective Affiliates in connection with this .
Section 2.1
Article III
Section 3.7(a)
(b) If TCCC, CCE or Splitco or any of their respective Affiliates discovers at any time following the Closing that there exists any Asset owned or held by CCE or one of its Affiliates that is an Other CCE Businesses Asset as of the Effective Time, the relevant Person shall transfer (or procure the transfer of) to the applicable Affiliate of Splitco all right, title and interest in and to such Asset owned or held by such Person at no additional cost to any of TCCC, the North American Business Entities or any of their respective Affiliates in a manner and on terms consistent with the relevant provisions of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, including and hereof. Splitco shall reimburse TCCC for any cost and expense reasonably incurred by any of TCCC, the North American Business Entities or any of their respective Affiliates in connection with this .
Section 2.1
Article III
Section 3.7(b)
 
 
3.8 .
Insurance Policies
(a) CCE shall use commercially reasonable efforts, and shall cause the North American Business Subsidiaries to use their respective commercially reasonable efforts, to maintain all Policies (or comparable policies providing substantially similar coverage with respect to CCE and the North American Business Subsidiaries and the North American Business) in full force and effect at all times up to and including the Effective Time, and shall pay all premiums, deductibles and retro-adjustment billings, if any, with respect thereto covering all periods, and ensuring coverage of CCE and the North American Business, up to and including the Effective Time.
(b) Prior to the Closing, CCE and Splitco shall take all necessary actions to cause Splitco and the Other CCE Businesses Entities to be removed, with respect to occurrences transpiring (under occurrence-based policies) or claims first made (with respect to claims made policies) subsequent to the Effective Time, as insureds under any Policy covering CCE and its North American Business Subsidiaries, that no action shall be taken that is inconsistent with the rights of Splitco and the Other CCE Businesses Entities set forth in . Prior to the Closing, Splitco shall, on behalf of itself and the Other CCE Businesses Entities, procure such insurance coverage as determined by Splitco, in good faith, to be necessary or advisable in connection with the operation of the Other CCE Businesses, the cost of such coverage to be born solely by Splitco and the Other CCE Businesses Entities. Other than as provided in , from and after the Closing, Splitco agrees that it shall not (and shall cause its Subsidiaries not to) make any claim against TCCC, any of the North American Business Entities, or to any carrier under any Policy of CCE and its Subsidiaries alleging that Splitco, any of the Other CCE Businesses Entities or the Other CCE Businesses is entitled to coverage or reimbursement under any such Policy.
provided
Section 3.8(c)
Section 3.8(c)
(c) Where Shared Policies with an unaffiliated third party insurer (and excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, any self-insurance, captive insurance or similar program) cover any Other CCE Businesses Liabilities that (i) constitute claims existing prior to the Effective Time or (ii) relate to claims made after the Effective Time with respect to an occurrence prior to the Effective Time under an occurrence-based policy (collectively, ""), then the Other CCE Businesses Entities may claim coverage under such Shared Policies, control the prosecution and defense of such Covered Claims and receive any insurance recoverables with respect thereto. After the Effective Time, CCE shall administer the Shared Policies, that such administration shall in no way limit, inhibit or preclude the right of the Other CCE Businesses to insurance coverage thereunder in accordance with this , in each case, with respect to Covered Claims. Splitco shall promptly notify CCE of any Covered Claims, and CCE agrees to cooperate with Splitco concerning the pursuit by Splitco of any such Covered Claim, in each case at the expense of Splitco (to the extent such expenses are not covered by the applicable Shared Policies). Splitco shall be responsible for complying with terms of the Shared Policies to obtain coverage for such Covered Claims, including if the Shared Policy requires any payments to be made in connection therewith, and Splitco shall make any such required payments. Any proceeds received by CCE from any third-party insurance carrier that relate to Covered Claims shall be paid promptly to Splitco. In the event that Covered Claims relate to the same occurrence for which CCE is seeking coverage under such Shared Policies, CCE and Splitco shall jointly defend any such claim of interest necessary to conduct a joint defense, and
Covered Claims
provided
Section 3.8(c)
 
shall bear any expenses in connection therewith equally (to the extent such expenses are not covered by the applicable Shared Policies). In the event that policy limits under an applicable Policy are not sufficient to fund all Covered Claims of CCE, its North American Business Subsidiaries, Splitco and/or the Other CCE Businesses Entities, amounts due under such Policy shall be paid on a first come first served basis, and any amounts simultaneously due shall be paid to the respective entities in proportion to the amounts which otherwise would be due were the limits of liability infinite.
(d) With respect to any and all events or circumstances affecting the North American Business which could reasonably be the subject of a claim under a North American Business Policy or Shared Policy which are known prior to the Effective Time to the employees of CCE or its Subsidiaries who are responsible for making claims under Policies, CCE shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, use commercially reasonable efforts to submit the applicable claims (i) prior to the expiration of coverage under the applicable Policy or (ii) to the extent that the rights of any North American Business Entity to make claims pursuant to the applicable Policy in effect as of immediately prior to the Effective Time will be limited in any material respect following the Effective Time pursuant to the terms of the Policy as in effect prior to the Effective Time, prior to the Effective Time. The foregoing shall not in any way limit the rights of Splitco and its Subsidiaries under .
Section 3.8(c)
3.9 Other than Transaction Expenses which are covered by , any Liabilities that may arise in connection with or as a result of effecting the Separation Transactions, shall be allocated 50% to TCCC and 50% to Splitco.
Liabilities Related to the Separation Transactions
.
Section 10.1
Except as set forth in the CCE Disclosure Letter (with specific reference to the particular Section or subsection of this Agreement to which the information set forth in such CCE Disclosure Letter relates; , that any information set forth in one section of the CCE Disclosure Letter shall be deemed to apply to each other Section or subsection thereof or hereof as appropriate to which its relevance is readily apparent on its face), each of CCE and Splitco hereby represents and warrants to TCCC as of the date hereof and as of the Effective Time (except to the extent any such representation or warranty is made as of an earlier date, in which case, as of such earlier date), as follows:
provided
4.1 . Each of CCE, Splitco, and the North American Business Subsidiaries, and to the Knowledge of CCE, each North American Joint Venture, is duly organized, validly existing and is in good standing (with respect to jurisdictions that recognize that concept) under the Laws of the jurisdiction listed as its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization and has all requisite corporate power and corporate authority to own, lease and operate the properties it owns, leases or operates and to conduct the North American Business as conducted on the date hereof. Each of CCE, Splitco, and the North American Business Subsidiaries, and to the Knowledge of CCE, each North American Joint Venture, is duly qualified or licensed to do business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing (with respect to jurisdictions
Organization and Qualification
 
that recognize that concept) in each jurisdiction in which the property owned, leased or operated by the North American Business is located or where the nature of the North American Business makes such qualification necessary, except in each case in those jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or licensed and in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a North American Business Material Adverse Effect. True and complete copies of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws (or other comparable governing documents) of each of the North American Business Entities as in effect on the date of this Agreement have been delivered to TCCC.
4.2 .
Authority
(a) Each of CCE and Splitco has all requisite corporate power and corporate authority to execute and deliver this Agreement. Each of CCE, Splitco and their respective Subsidiaries, as applicable, has all requisite corporate power and corporate authority to enter into each of the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party and to perform its respective obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the Transactions, subject, in the case of CCE, only to the Required CCE Vote. The execution, delivery and performance by each of CCE, Splitco and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates, as applicable, of this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which they are respectively a party and the consummation of the Transactions, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action subject, in the case of CCE, to obtaining the Required CCE Vote. This Agreement has been (and each Ancillary Agreement upon execution and delivery will be) duly executed and delivered by each of CCE, Splitco and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates, as applicable, and constitutes (and each Ancillary Agreement upon execution and delivery will constitute), assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by each of the other parties hereto and thereto, the legal, valid and binding obligation of each of CCE, Splitco and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates party hereto or thereto, as applicable, enforceable against each of CCE, Splitco and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates, as applicable, in accordance with its and their respective terms, except that such enforcement may be subject to any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or other Laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and to general equity principles.
(b) Each of the CCE Board and the Affiliated Transaction Committee has unanimously (other than, in the case of the CCE Board, abstentions by directors who are employees of TCCC or its Subsidiaries) determined that this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby are fair to and in the best interests of CCE and its stockholders (other than TCCC and its Affiliates and TCCC's executive officers and directors) and approved and declared advisable this Agreement and the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby. As of the date hereof, the CCE Board (i) has resolved to recommend adoption of this Agreement to the holders of shares of CCE Common Stock (the ""), and (ii) directed that this Agreement be submitted to the holders of shares of CCE Common Stock for their adoption. The CCE Board has received the opinions of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Lazard Frres & Co. LLC, and the Affiliated Transaction Committee has received the opinion of Greenhill & Co., LLC, in each case, to the effect that, as of the date of such opinion, the Merger Consideration is fair, from a financial point of view, to holders (other than as set forth in such opinion) of shares of CCE Common Stock, and a copy of each such opinion will be provided to TCCC solely for informational purposes after receipt thereof by CCE.
CCE
Recommendation
 
 
4.3 .
Capitalization; Jurisdictions
(a) The authorized capital stock of CCE consists of one billion one hundred million (1,100,000,000) shares, consisting of one billion (1,000,000,000) shares of CCE Common Stock, and one hundred million (100,000,000) shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share (the ""). As of the close of business on February 24, 2010 (the ""), (i) 491,748,586 shares of CCE Common Stock were issued and outstanding; (ii) no shares of CCE Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding; (iii) CCE Options to acquire 32,460,762 shares of CCE Common Stock were outstanding; (iv) 2,943,112 CCE Stock Units were outstanding; and (v) 2,372,806 shares of CCE Restricted Stock were outstanding. Since the Capitalization Date through the date of this Agreement, no shares of CCE Common Stock, CCE Preferred Stock, CCE Stock Units or CCE Restricted Stock or other equity securities of CCE have been issued, and no CCE Options have been granted. All of the issued and outstanding shares of CCE Common Stock are, and all shares of CCE Common Stock subject to issuance (upon issuance on the terms and conditions specified in the instruments pursuant to which they are issuable) will be, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and free of any preemptive rights or Liens created by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries and issued in compliance with all applicable securities Laws. Except as set forth in this , there are no outstanding (i) securities convertible into or exchangeable for the capital stock of, or equity interests in, CCE, (ii) options, warrants or other rights to purchase or subscribe for capital stock of, or equity interests in, CCE, or (iii) Contracts or understandings of any kind requiring the issuance, transfer, repurchase, redemption, reacquisition or voting of any capital stock of, or equity interests in, CCE, any such convertible or exchangeable securities or any such options, warrants or rights, pursuant to which CCE is subject or bound. Except as set forth in this , there is no Person (other than TCCC, Merger Sub and their respective Affiliates) who is entitled to acquire or receive any shares of capital stock or other securities of CCE pursuant to an agreement entered into by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries (other than this Agreement).
CCE Preferred Stock
Capitalization Date
Section 4.3(a)
Section 4.3(a)
(b) of the CCE Disclosure Letter sets forth the name of each North American Business Subsidiary, its jurisdiction of organization, the amount of its authorized and outstanding capital stock (or other equity interests) and the record and beneficial owner of such outstanding capital stock (or other equity interests). The entities set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter include all Affiliates of CCE engaged in the North American Business other than CCE and the North American Joint Ventures, and other than any Affiliates of CCE whose sole engagement in the North American Business is in the ownership of Excluded Business Assets. All the issued and outstanding capital stock (or other equity interests) of each of the North American Business Subsidiaries are duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and free of any preemptive rights or Liens (other than Liens arising out of pledges of the equity interests of any of the North American Business Subsidiaries pursuant to the Credit Agreement). There are no outstanding (i) securities convertible into or exchangeable for the capital stock of, or equity interests in, any of the North American Business Subsidiaries, (ii) options, warrants or other rights to purchase or subscribe for capital stock of, or equity interests in, any of the North American Business Subsidiaries, or (iii) Contracts or understandings of any kind requiring the issuance, transfer, repurchase, redemption, reacquisition or voting of any capital stock of, or equity interests in, any of the North American Business Subsidiaries, any such convertible or exchangeable securities or any such options, warrants or rights, pursuant to which, in any of the foregoing cases, any of the North American Business Subsidiaries or its
Section 4.3(b)
Section 4.3(b)
 
holders of capital stock or other securities is subject or bound. There is no Person (other than TCCC, Merger Sub and their respective Affiliates) who is entitled to acquire or receive any shares of capital stock or other securities of any of the North American Business Subsidiaries.
(c) of the CCE Disclosure Letter sets forth the name of each North American Joint Venture, its jurisdiction of organization, the amount of its authorized capital stock (or other equity interests) and the amount thereof owned of record and beneficially by CCE, a North American Business Subsidiary or other North American Joint Venture. The entities set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter include all entities in which CCE has a direct or indirect ownership interest that are engaged in the North American Business other than the North American Business Subsidiaries and other than any Affiliates of CCE whose sole engagement in the North American Business is in the ownership of Excluded Business Assets. All of the capital stock (or other equity interests) listed in of the CCE Disclosure Letter as owned of record and beneficially by CCE, a North American Business Subsidiary or a North American Joint Venture is duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and free of any preemptive rights and was not issued in violation of any applicable Law or preemptive rights in respect thereto. To the Knowledge of CCE, there are no outstanding (i) securities convertible into or exchangeable for the capital stock of, or equity interests in, any of the North American Joint Ventures, (ii) options, warrants or other rights to purchase or subscribe for capital stock of, or equity interests in, any of the North American Joint Ventures, or (iii) other than any North American Joint Venture Contract, Contracts or arrangements of any kind relating to the issuance, transfer, repurchase, redemption, reacquisition or voting of any capital stock of, or equity interests in, any of the North American Joint Ventures, any such convertible or exchangeable securities or any such options, warrants or rights, pursuant to which any of CCE, the North American Joint Ventures, the North American Business Subsidiaries or, to the Knowledge of CCE, any other holders of stock or other securities in the North American Joint Ventures, is subject or bound. Except as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, to the Knowledge of CCE, as of the date of this Agreement, (i) neither CCE nor any of its Affiliates has received written notice of any capital call with respect to any contribution to a North American Joint Venture that may be required on or after the Effective Time and (ii) no event has occurred that could give rise to a capital call with respect to any required contribution to a North American Joint Venture during the twelve (12)-month period beginning on the date of this Agreement.
Section 4.3(c)(i)
Section 4.3(c)(i)
Section 4.3(c)(i)
Section 4.3(c)(ii)
(d) of the CCE Disclosure Letter sets forth a list as of the date of this Agreement of all outstanding equity awards held by any employee, former employee, director, former director or independent contractor of CCE or any of its Affiliates that are settled in, or relate to, CCE Common Stock.
Section 4.3(d)
(e) As of the Effective Time, CCE (i) will hold, directly or indirectly, all right, title and interest to (A) the equity interests of the North American Business Subsidiaries as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter and (B) the equity interests of the North American Joint Ventures set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, in each case, free and clear of all Liens (other than any Lien created by any action of TCCC), and (ii) will not have any direct or indirect ownership interest in Splitco or any of the Other CCE Businesses Entities (subject, in the case of clause (A), to the terms of the Credit Agreement and, in the case of clauses (A) and (B), as applicable, to the terms of the North American Joint Venture Contracts).
Section 4.3(b)
Section 4.3(c)(i)
 
 
(f) Except as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter or of the CCE Disclosure Letter or as contemplated by , none of the North American Business Entities has any Subsidiaries or owns or has an obligation under Contract to acquire, directly or indirectly, any equity interests, equity investments or debt securities in any Person (other than CCE and equity or debt securities held as investments in the ordinary course of business which are not, individually or in the aggregate, material to the North American Business).
Section 4.3(b)
Section 4.3(c)(i)
Schedule A
(g) As of the date hereof, except as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter (which section shall include the amount outstanding under Gross Indebtedness), there are no outstanding bonds, debentures, notes or other Indebtedness of the North American Business Entities.
Section 4.3(g)
4.4 .
No Violation; Consents and Approvals
(a) The execution, delivery and performance by each of CCE, Splitco and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to the extent party hereto or thereto and the consummation of the Transactions do not (i) assuming all authorizations, consents and approvals described in and have been obtained or made, violate any applicable Law to which CCE, Splitco and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates (including the North American Business Entities) are subject, (ii) (A) require a consent, notice or approval under, conflict with, result in a violation or breach of or constitute a default under, result in the acceleration of, or (B) create in any party the right to accelerate, terminate or cancel, any Contract to which any of CCE, Splitco or their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates (including the North American Business Entities) is a party or (C) create any Lien upon any of the properties or Assets used or held for use in the North American Business, (iii) require a consent, notice or approval under, conflict with, result in a violation or breach of, constitute a default under, result in the acceleration of, or create in any party the right to accelerate, terminate or cancel, any indenture or other Contract governing or relating to Gross Indebtedness of CCE or its Subsidiaries, or (iv) violate the certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other organizational documents of CCE, Splitco or their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates (including the North American Business Entities), except with respect to all of the foregoing as set forth on of the CCE Disclosure Letter and except with respect to the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) or (with respect to Subsidiaries or Affiliates not engaged in the transactions identified on Schedule A) (iv) or as has not had or would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect or prevent or materially delay the consummation of the Transactions.
Section 4.2(a)
4.4(b)
Section 4.4(a)
(b) Except (i) as required under the HSR Act or any other Competition Law, (ii) for filings with the NYSE and compliance with the Securities Act, Exchange Act or any other applicable state or federal securities law and (iii) for the filing of the Certificate of Merger as contemplated by , no consent or approval is required to be obtained by CCE, Splitco or their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates (including the North American Business Entities) from, and no notice is required to be given by CCE, Splitco or their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates (including the North American Business Entities) to, and no filing is required to be made by CCE, Splitco or their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates (including the North American Business Entities) with, any Governmental Entity in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by CCE, Splitco and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates of this Agreement
Section 2.3
 
and the Ancillary Agreements to the extent party hereto or thereto, other than in all cases where failure to obtain such consent or to give or make such notice or filing would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect or prevent or materially delay the consummation of the Transactions.
4.5 . CCE has filed or furnished, as applicable, on a timely basis, all forms, statements, certifications, reports and documents required to be filed or furnished by it with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act or the Securities Act, since December 31, 2007 (the "") (the forms, statements, reports and documents filed or furnished since the Applicable Date and those filed or furnished subsequent to the date of this Agreement, including any amendments thereto, the ""). Each of the CCE Reports, at the time of its filing or being furnished, complied or, if not yet filed or furnished, will comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the ""), and any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder applicable to the CCE Reports. As of their respective dates (or, if amended prior to the date of this Agreement, as of the date of such amendment), the CCE Reports did not, and any CCE Reports filed with or furnished to the SEC subsequent to the date of this Agreement will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading. Since the Applicable Date, CCE has been in compliance in all material respects with the applicable listing and corporate governance rules and regulations of the NYSE.
SEC Reports
Appl
i
cable Date
CCE
Reports
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
4.6 .
Financial Statements; Undisclosed Liabilities
(a) The audited consolidated financial statements of CCE included or incorporated by reference in the CCE Reports filed with the SEC since January 1, 2010 (including the audited consolidated balance sheet of CCE as of December 31, 2009 (the "") and the related audited consolidated statement of income and cash flows for the twelve (12)-month period then ended (collectively, with the Audited CCE 2009 Balance Sheet, the "")) complied as to form in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, were prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be indicated therein or in the notes thereto and except with respect to unaudited statements as permitted by Form 10-Q of the SEC) and fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial position of CCE and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and their consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the periods then ended (subject, in the case of the unaudited consolidated interim financial statements included therein, to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of complete footnotes).
A
udited
CCE
2009 Balance Sheet
A
udited
CCE
2009 Financial Statements
(b) of the CCE Disclosure Letter contains true, correct, and complete copies of the unaudited consolidated balance sheets of each of the "North American operating segment" and "corporate operating segment" (each as described in CCE's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009) as of December 31, 2008 and 2009 (collectively, the ""), and the related unaudited consolidated statements of income of the "North American operating segment" and the "corporate operating segment" for the twelve (12)-month periods then ended (collectively, with the Segment Balance Sheets, the
Section 4.6(b)
Segment Balance Sheets
 
""). The Annual Segment Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except for adjustments or other matters disclosed therein, the absence of complete footnotes, and subject to normal year-end adjustments), and (ii) fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the consolidated North American Business operating segment and corporate operating segment as of the date thereof and their consolidated results of operations for the period then ended (subject to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of complete footnotes).
Annual Segment Financial Statements
(c) When delivered pursuant to hereof, the Audited North American Business Financial Statements and the Unaudited North American Business Financial Statements (subject to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of complete footnotes) (i) will have been prepared from, and shall be, consistent with the books and records of the North American Business Entities, (ii) will have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved, and (iii) will fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the North American Business Entities as of the dates thereof and their consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the periods then ended.
Section 6.14
(d) Except for Liabilities (i) disclosed in the Audited CCE 2009 Financial Statements or any notes thereto, (ii) incurred in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice since December 31, 2009, (iii) set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, or (iv) that are not reasonably likely to be material to the North American Business or prevent the consummation of the Transactions, none of the North American Business Subsidiaries has, or since December 31, 2009, has incurred, any Liabilities.
Section 4.6(d)
4.7 . CCE has established and maintains "disclosure controls and procedures" and "internal control over financial reporting" (as such terms are defined in paragraphs (e) and (f), respectively, of Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act) as required by Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act. CCE's disclosure controls and procedures are effective in providing reasonable assurance that all material information required to be disclosed by CCE in the reports that it files or furnishes under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC, and that all such material information is accumulated and communicated to CCE's management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and to make the certifications required pursuant to Section 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. CCE adheres to and enforces a system of internal control over financial reporting which is effective in providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, including policies and procedures that (i) require the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the Transactions and dispositions of the assets of CCE and its Subsidiaries, (ii) provide reasonable assurance that Transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of CCE and its Subsidiaries are being made only in accordance with appropriate authorizations of management and, if required, the CCE Board and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Assets of CCE and its Subsidiaries. CCE's management has completed its assessment of the effectiveness of CCE's internal control over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Internal Controls and Procedures
 
Act for the year ended December 31, 2009, and such assessment concluded that such controls were effective. Except as set forth on of the CCE Disclosure Letter, neither CCE, nor to the Knowledge of CCE, CCE's independent auditors has identified or been made aware of (A) any significant deficiency or material weakness, in each case which has not been subsequently remediated, in the system of internal control over financial reporting utilized by CCE and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (B) any fraud that involves CCE's management or other employees who have a role in the preparation of financial statements with financial reporting oversight or the internal control over financial reporting utilized by CCE.
Section 4.7
4.8 . Except as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement, during the period from December 31, 2009 to the date of this Agreement, (a) CCE and its Subsidiaries operated the North American Business in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice and (b) there has not been a North American Business Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
4.9 . CCE or its Subsidiaries has good and valid title to, or a valid and enforceable right to use, all personal property (whether tangible or intangible) primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the North American Business (the "') (except such personal property as has been sold or otherwise disposed of after the date hereof in the ordinary course of business), in each case, free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Liens, except where the failure to have such title or right to use would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect. As of the Effective Time, (A) CCE or one of the North American Business Subsidiaries will (assuming the receipt of any consent set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter) have good and valid title to, or a valid and enforceable right to use, all Personal Property described in the prior sentence (except such Personal Property that (x) has been sold or otherwise disposed of after the date hereof in the ordinary course of business, (y) will be provided to the North American Business pursuant to an Ancillary Agreement or (z) is an Excluded Business Asset), in each case free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Liens, and (B) none of Splitco or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates will have title to any of the Personal Property primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the North American Business as conducted on or prior to the date hereof (except as described in clauses (y) and (z) above), except where the failure to have such title or right to use would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Personal Property
Personal Property
Section 4.4(a)
4.10 .
Title to Real Property
(a) As of the date hereof, of the CCE Disclosure Letter is accurate in all material respects and sets forth, (i) a true, correct and complete list of all Owned Real Property (including the address of each parcel of Owned Real Property), and (ii) a true, correct and complete list of all Real Property Leases and the address of each parcel of Leased Real Property.
Section 4.10(a)
(b) CCE or one of its North American Business Subsidiaries has fee simple title to the Owned Real Property, free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Liens and except in any case as would not individually or in the aggregate have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, neither CCE nor its North American Business Subsidiaries has leased, subleased, licensed, granted a
Section 4.10(b)
 
concession or other right or interest to any Person to use or occupy the Owned Real Property or any portion thereof. Other than the right of TCCC pursuant to this Agreement, there are no outstanding options, rights of first offer or rights of first refusal to purchase the Owned Real Property or any portion thereof or interest therein. As of the Effective Time (and assuming receipt of any applicable consent set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter), (x) CCE or one of the North American Business Subsidiaries will have fee simple title to all of the Owned Real Property, free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Liens and (y) with respect to the Leased Real Property, CCE or one of the North American Business Subsidiaries will hold such Leased Real Property on terms and conditions in all material respects the same as those set forth in the Real Property Leases as of the date hereof, except as would not individually or in the aggregate have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect. As of the date hereof, neither CCE nor any of its Subsidiaries has received written notice of any pending, and to the Knowledge of CCE, there is no threatened, condemnation proceeding with respect to any Owned Real Property.
Section 4.4(a)
(c) Except as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, with respect to each Real Property Lease, (i) such lease is valid, binding and in full force and effect; (ii) the Transactions do not require the consent of any other party to such lease and will not result in a material breach of or default under such lease; (iii) neither CCE or its Subsidiaries nor, to the Knowledge of CCE, any other party to the Real Property Leases, is in material breach or default under such lease, and no event has occurred or circumstance exists which, with the delivery of notice, the passage of time or both, would constitute a material breach or default thereunder; (iv) neither CCE nor any of its Subsidiaries is currently subleasing, licensing or otherwise granting any Person the right to use or occupy such Leased Real Property or any portion thereof; and (v) as of the date hereof, neither CCE nor any of its Subsidiaries has received written notice of any pending, and to the Knowledge of CCE, there is no threatened, condemnation proceeding with respect to any Leased Real Property, except in each case as has not or would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect.
Section 4.10(c)
4.11 . The North American Business Assets constitute in all material respects all Assets necessary for the North American Business Entities to conduct the North American Business in the manner conducted during the three (3) months prior to the date hereof, other than such business or operations arising out of or resulting from use of the Excluded Business Assets.
Sufficiency of Assets
4.12 .
Intellectual Property
(a) CCE or one of its North American Business Subsidiaries does, and as of the Effective Time, CCE or one of the North American Business Subsidiaries will own all right, title and interest in and to, free and clear of all Liens (other than Permitted Liens), or possess valid and enforceable and adequate licenses or other legal rights to use, all material Intellectual Property Rights that are primarily used or held for use primarily in the operation of the North American Business as of the date hereof and as of the Effective Time (collectively, the "").
North American Business Intellectual Property Rights
(b) of the CCE Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of all United States, foreign and multi-national, (i) patents and patent applications; (ii) Trademark registrations
Section 4.12(b)
 
and applications (including Internet domain name registrations) and material unregistered Trademarks; (iii) copyright registrations and applications; (iv) material trade secrets and (v) material computer software, in each case, owned by CCE or its Subsidiaries and primarily used or held for use primarily in connection with the North American Business. CCE or one of its Subsidiaries is the sole and exclusive beneficial and, with respect to applications and registrations, record owner of all of such Intellectual Property Rights, and all of such material Intellectual Property Rights are valid, subsisting and enforceable.
(c) Except as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, the conduct of the North American Business as currently conducted, and as conducted in the past three (3) years does not, to the Knowledge of CCE, infringe, misappropriate, or otherwise violate, and has not infringed, misappropriated, or otherwise violated, in any material respect any Person's Intellectual Property Rights, and, to the Knowledge of CCE, there has been no such claim asserted or threatened (including in the form of offers or invitations to obtain a license) against CCE or its Subsidiaries or, to the Knowledge of CCE, any other Person. To the Knowledge of CCE, no Person is materially infringing, misappropriating, or otherwise violating any material Intellectual Property Rights owned or material Intellectual Property Rights used, or held for use by CCE or its Subsidiaries primarily in the conduct of the North American Business, and, to the Knowledge of CCE, no such claims have been asserted or threatened against any Person by CCE or its Subsidiaries in the past three (3) years.
Section 4.12(c)
(d) Assuming the receipt of any applicable consent set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, as of the Effective Time, all of the material North American Business Intellectual Property Rights shall be owned or available for use by CCE or one of the North American Business Subsidiaries on terms and conditions in all material respects the same as those under which CCE owned or used the North American Business Intellectual Property Rights immediately prior to the Closing.
Section 4.4(a)
4.13 . Except as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, there is no complaint, action, suit, proceeding, arbitration, investigation or mediation (each, an "") pending or, to the Knowledge of CCE, threatened against CCE or its Subsidiaries (or, to the Knowledge of CCE, any North American Joint Venture) by or before any Governmental Entity or by or on behalf of any third party that, if adversely determined, individually or in the aggregate, would (i) have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) prevent or materially delay CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates from consummating the Transactions. There are no outstanding judgments, decrees or orders of any Governmental Entity against or binding on CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates relating to the North American Business or the Assets or Liabilities of the North American Business except any such judgment, decree or order that has not had, and would not have, individually or in the aggregate, a North American Business Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
Section 4.13
A
c
tion
4.14 .
Employee Benefit Plans
(a) of the CCE Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of each material North American Benefit Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, of the CCE Disclosure Letter shall set forth each North American Benefit Plan which is a pension, severance (or termination pay), and retiree medical plan, agreement or arrangement, regardless of whether
Section 4.14(a)
Section 4.14(a)
 
or not such plans, agreements or arrangements are material North American Benefit Plans. With respect to the North American Benefit Plans set forth on of the CCE Disclosure Letter, CCE has delivered or made available to TCCC true, correct and complete copies of, (i) each North American Benefit Plan (or, in each case, descriptions thereof for any unwritten North American Benefit Plans), (ii) the most recent annual report on Form 5500 required to be filed with the IRS with respect to each North American Benefit Plan, if required, (iii) the most recent summary plan description, if required, prepared for each North American Benefit Plan, and (iv) each trust agreement and insurance or group annuity contract related to any North American Benefit Plan. Each CCE Benefit Plan that is subject to Section 302 or Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code is hereinafter referred to in this as a "."
Section 4.14(a)
Section 4.14
Title IV Plan
(b) Except as would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, each North American Benefit Plan has been operated and administered in material compliance with its terms and with applicable Law, including ERISA and the Code. Except as provided under applicable Law or under a collective bargaining agreement, there are no limitations or restrictions on the right of CCE or any of its Subsidiaries or, after the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, TCCC or any of its Subsidiaries, to merge, amend or terminate any of the North American Benefit Plans set forth on of the CCE Disclosure Letter.
Section 4.14(a)
(c) Each North American Benefit Plan intended to qualify under Section 401 of the Code has received a current, favorable determination letter or has timely applied for a favorable determination letter, and, to the Knowledge of CCE, no actions have occurred and no circumstances exist which are likely to result in the loss of the qualified status of such North American Benefit Plans.
(d) Except as would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, no liability under Title IV of ERISA has been incurred by CCE or any ERISA Affiliate that has not been satisfied in full, and no condition exists that presents a risk to CCE or any ERISA Affiliate of incurring any such liability, other than potential future withdrawal liability under a multiemployer pension plan (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) for a withdrawal after the Effective Time and, other than liability for premiums due the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("") (which premiums have been paid when due). Each Title IV Plan and any trust established thereunder has satisfied the "minimum funding standard" under Section 412 of the Code, whether or not waived, as of the last day of the most recent fiscal year of each Title IV Plan ended prior to the date hereof.
PBGC
(e) No North American Benefit Plan is (i) a "multiemployer plan" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA), or (ii) a "multiple employer plan" (within the meaning of Section 413(c) of the Code).
(f) Except as would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, there are no pending or, to the Knowledge of CCE, threatened claims by or on behalf of any North American Benefit Plan by any employee or former employee or beneficiary covered under any such North American Benefit Plan, or otherwise involving any such North American Benefit Plan (other than routine claims for benefits).
 
 
(g) Except as would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, with respect to each North American Benefit Plan established or maintained outside of the United States primarily for the benefit of individuals residing outside of the United States, each such North American Benefit Plan complies in all respects with applicable Law, and each such North American Benefit Plan required to be registered has been registered and has been maintained in good standing with applicable Governmental Entities.
(h) No North American Benefit Plan provides benefits, including death or medical benefits (whether or not insured), beyond retirement or other termination of service, other than (i) coverage mandated solely by applicable Law, (ii) death benefits or retirement benefits under any "employee pension benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), (iii) benefits, the full costs of which are borne by the participant or his or her beneficiary, or (iv) benefits under any severance plan which is not an employee pension benefit plan subject to ERISA. Except as would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, there has been no failure of a North American Benefit Plan that is a group health plan (as defined in Section 5000(b)(1) of the Code) to meet the requirements of Section 4980B(f) of the Code with respect to a qualified beneficiary (as defined in Section 4980B(g) of the Code).
(i) Except as would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, each North American Benefit Plan that is a "nonqualified deferred compensation plan" (as defined for purposes of Section 409A(d)(1) of the Code) has (i) been maintained and operated since January 1, 2005 in good faith compliance with Section 409A of the Code and all applicable IRS guidance promulgated thereunder so as to avoid any Tax under Section 409A of the Code, and (ii) since January 1, 2009, been in documentary and operational compliance with Section 409A of the Code and all applicable IRS guidance promulgated thereunder.
(j) Neither the execution of this Agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will, either alone or in combination with another event, (i) entitle any current or former employee, officer or director of CCE or any ERISA Affiliate of CCE to any material severance pay, unemployment compensation or any other payment that must be paid by, provided by, or the cost of which is otherwise borne by any of the North American Business Entities, except as expressly provided in this Agreement, or (ii) accelerate the time of payment or vesting, or increase the amount of compensation due any such employee, former employee, officer or director, with respect to any compensation that must be paid by, provided by, or the cost of which is otherwise borne by any of the North American Business Entities, in either case, which is material to the individual, except as expressly provided in this Agreement. No North American Benefit Plan provides for the payment by any North American Business Entity of any Tax gross-up payments or similar payments in respect of any Taxes to any employees or former employees or directors or former directors who provide or provided services to CCE or any North American Business Subsidiary.
(k) For purposes of this , Knowledge of CCE shall mean the actual knowledge of any of the individuals set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter.
Section 4.14
Section 4.14(k)
 
 
4.15 .
Taxes
(a) All material federal, state, local and foreign Tax Returns required to be filed by or with respect to CCE or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, and each consolidated, combined, unitary, affiliated or aggregate group of which CCE or its Subsidiaries, or Affiliates, are members (an "") have been duly and timely filed (taking into account applicable extensions), and each such Tax Return was true, complete and correct in all material respects.
Affiliated Group
(b) All material Taxes and all material estimated Taxes due and owing by CCE or its Subsidiaries, Affiliates, or any Affiliated Group have been timely paid, and all Taxes and estimated Taxes for any taxable period (or portion thereof) beginning on or prior to the Closing Date, which are not yet due and payable, have been properly reserved for in the books and records of CCE.
(c)(i) No audits or other administrative proceedings before any Taxing Authority were pending as of December 31, 2009, and (ii) no audits or other administrative proceedings before any Taxing Authority, which, if adversely determined, are reasonably expected to result in an assessment or deficiency, are presently pending, in the case of either clause (i) or (ii) with regard to any Taxes or Tax Returns of any North American Business Subsidiary or, to the Knowledge of CCE, any North American Business Entity, as to which any Taxing Authority has asserted any claim and which, if adversely determined, would be, individually or in the aggregate, material to the North American Business Entities, or the North American Business, and, to the Knowledge of CCE, no deficiency or claim for Taxes or any adjustment to Taxes with respect to which any of the North American Business Entities may be liable is asserted or threatened in writing by any Taxing Authority.
(d) CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates have duly and timely withheld all material Taxes required to be withheld, and such withheld Taxes have either been duly and timely paid to the proper Taxing Authority or properly provided for in accounts for such purpose and will be duly and timely paid to the proper Taxing Authority.
(e) Except for agreements or arrangements entered into more than five years prior to the date of this Agreement in connection with the acquisition or disposition of the equity or substantially all the assets of any business entity, and except for agreements or arrangements entered into solely by and among North American Business Entities, no North American Business Entity (i) is a party to or bound by or has any obligation under any material income Tax separation, sharing, allocation or similar agreement or arrangement, (ii) has within the last five years been a member of any consolidated, combined or unitary group for purposes of filing Tax Returns or paying Taxes (other than a group of which CCE is the common parent corporation), or (iii) has within the last five years entered into a closing agreement pursuant to Section 7121 of the Code, or any predecessor provision or, with respect to any material Tax liability, any similar provision of State, local or foreign Law.
(f) There are no material Liens (other than Permitted Liens) relating to Taxes upon the assets of the North American Business other than Liens relating to Taxes not yet due and payable.
 
 
(g) No North American Business Subsidiary and, to the Knowledge of CCE, no North American Business Entity, has engaged in any transaction that may give rise to: (i) a disclosure obligation with respect to any "listed transaction," as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.6011-4(b)(2), or (ii) with respect to any taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, a disclosure obligation as a "reportable transaction" under Section 6111 of the Code and applicable Treasury Regulations.
(h) No North American Business Subsidiary and, to the Knowledge of CCE, no North American Business Entity, has agreed to make or is required to make any adjustment for a taxable period ending after the Closing Date under Section 481(a) of the Code by reason of a change in accounting method or otherwise, except where such adjustment has not had or will not have, individually or in the aggregate, a North American Business Material Adverse Effect.
(i) The United States federal income Tax Returns and Canadian federal and provincial income Tax Returns of the North American Business Subsidiaries have been examined, and such examinations have been resolved, or the statute of limitations has expired and there are no outstanding agreements or waivers or other documents having the effect of waiving or extending the statutory period of limitation applicable to such Tax Returns, for all taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2005, and, with respect to Canadian federal and provincial income Tax Returns, December 31, 2001.
(j) Neither CCE nor any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates nor, to the Knowledge of CCE, any holder of CCE Common Stock has taken any action or has failed to take any action which action or failure to take action would cause the distribution of Enterprises KOC Acquisition Company to Bottling Holdings (International) Inc. ("") not to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, the merger of BHI with and into CCE (or with and into a limited liability company wholly owned by, and treated for United States federal income Tax purposes as an entity disregarded from, CCE) not to qualify under Section 332 of the Code, the transfers to Splitco not to qualify under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, or the conversion of shares of CCE Common Stock at Closing not to qualify under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code (except as provided in Section 356(b) of the Code).
BHI
4.16 .
Material Contracts
(a) Except as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, none of the North American Business Entities is a party to or bound by any of the following (individually, a "" and, collectively, the ""):
Section 4.16(a)
Material Contract
Mat
e
rial Contracts
(i) any "material contract" (as such term is defined in Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K assuming the North American Business Entities were subject to Regulation S-K as a stand alone consolidated entity);
(ii) any Shared Contracts requiring annual payments by or to a North American Business Entity in excess of $10,000,000;
(iii) any Contract (other than with TCCC or any of its Subsidiaries) which contains a non-competition covenant that precludes or purports to preclude CCE or any of its Affiliates from operating in any geographic location;
 
 
(iv) any Contract relating to the formation, operation or management of any joint venture, alliance or partnership (including any North American Joint Venture Contract) requiring annual payments by or to a North American Business Entity in excess of $10,000,000;
(v) any Contracts providing any Person with a material exclusive dealing arrangement or the right of first refusal or first offer or similar type provision with respect to the disposition or acquisition of any material North American Business Assets;
(vi) any Contract that grants any Person "most favored nation" status involving annual payments by or to a North American Business Entity in excess of $10,000,000;
(vii) any Contract entered into outside the ordinary course of business of the North American Business requiring payments by or to a North American Business Entity in excess of $10,000,000;
(viii) any Contract which contains restrictions with respect to payment of dividends or any other distribution in respect of the capital stock or other equity interest of CCE or any of the North American Business Subsidiaries;
(ix) any Contract pursuant to which CCE or its Subsidiaries (A) is granted or obtains any right to use any material Intellectual Property Rights (other than standard form contracts granting rights to use readily available commercial software), (B) is restricted in the right to use or register any material Intellectual Property Rights, (C) permits any other Person to use, enforce, or register any material Intellectual Property Rights, or (D) would require TCCC to license or make available its or its Affiliates' own Intellectual Property Rights to any other Person, or restrict the use by TCCC or its Affiliates of such Intellectual Property Rights as a result of the transactions contemplated hereby;
(x) any settlement or similar Contract, entered into or involving the payment by CCE or any North American Business Subsidiary outside the ordinary course of business;
(xi) any Contract entered into outside the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice that includes an indemnification obligation of any North American Business Entity with a maximum potential Liability in excess of $10,000,000;
(xii) any indenture or other Contract governing or relating to Gross Indebtedness of CCE or its Subsidiaries;
(xiii) any Indemnity Agreement; and
(xiv) any Contract that requires a consent or approval from any Person as a result of the execution of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, which Contract calls for payments to or from any North American Business Entity in excess of $10,000,000.
 
 
(b) (i) Each of the Material Contracts is, in all material respects, in full force and effect, and is valid and, with respect to CCE and its Subsidiaries, enforceable in accordance with its terms, and with respect to the other parties thereto is, to the Knowledge of CCE, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except that enforcement of any Material Contract may be subject to any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or other Laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to or limiting creditors' rights generally and general equity principles; (ii) there is no pending material default under, or material breach of, any Material Contract by CCE or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates party thereto, and no event has occurred that, with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both, would constitute a material default thereunder by CCE or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates party thereto; and (iii) to the Knowledge of CCE, no party to any such Material Contract has given written notice to CCE or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates of, or made a written claim against CCE or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates with respect to, any material breach or default thereunder.
(c) To the Knowledge of CCE, no other contracting party to any Material Contract referred to in is in material breach thereof or has breached the same in any material respect within the twelve (12)-month period prior to the date hereof.
Section 4.16(a)
(d) To the Knowledge of CCE, none of CCE nor any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates has received written notice that any party to any Material Contract intends to cancel or terminate any such Material Contract or to exercise or not exercise any option or extension right thereunder whether as a result of the Transactions or otherwise.
(e) Except as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, CCE has delivered or made available to TCCC true, correct and complete copies of each Material Contract.
Section 4.16(e)
4.17 . Except as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, (a) since December 31, 2009, there has been no Action pending, or, to the Knowledge of CCE, threatened against CCE, Splitco or their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates with respect to any product liability and (b) to the Knowledge of CCE, there has not occurred any state of facts or circumstances that would give rise to any Action that would have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, with respect to any products manufactured, sold or distributed at any time by CCE or its Subsidiaries, in either case, arising out of a product manufactured, sold or distributed by the North American Business, including any Action on account of any express or implied warranty, except for normal returns and allowances which have not had and would not have, individually or in the aggregate, a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, in each case, other than to the extent arising from products, materials or written specifications delivered (in the case of written specifications, delivered by an employee with a title no less senior than General Manager) to the North American Business by TCCC or its Affiliates in its capacity as a supplier of the North American Business.
Product Liability
Section 4.17
4.18 .
Major Suppliers and Customers other than TCCC
(a) of the CCE Disclosure Letter lists the top twenty (20) suppliers to, and top twenty (20) customers of, the North American Business other than TCCC as of the date of this Agreement, determined based on the dollar amount of goods and services such
Section 4.18(a)(i)
 
suppliers provided during the twelve (12) months ended December 31, 2009 (based on amounts paid by CCE, its Subsidiaries and Affiliates) and that such customers have purchased during such period (based on revenue recognized during such period under GAAP accounting), under their Contracts with CCE, its Subsidiaries and Affiliates.
(b) Except as set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, as of the date of this Agreement, none of the customers or suppliers identified pursuant to has canceled, materially and adversely modified, or otherwise terminated its relationship with CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or materially decreased its services, supplies or materials to CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, nor to the Knowledge of CCE, has any such customer or supplier communicated in writing any intention to do any of the foregoing.
Section 4.18(b)
Section 4.18(a)
4.19 . CCE and each of its Subsidiaries and Affiliates are, and, have been since December 31, 2007, in compliance with all applicable Federal, state, local or foreign laws, statutes, codes, treaties, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations, injunctions, rulings, decrees and orders of all Governmental Entities (collectively, ""), including The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or any similar Law, except as have not had or would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect and except Tax Laws (which are addressed in ). CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates possess all permits, certificates, licenses, approvals, governmental franchises and other authorizations required under applicable Laws (collectively, "") that are necessary to the operation of the North American Business as operated on the date hereof or the ownership of the North American Business Assets, and all such Permits are validly held and in full force and effect, except as have not had or would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect. CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates are, and since December 31, 2007 have been, in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Permits, except as have not had or would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect. As of the Effective Time, CCE or one of the North American Business Subsidiaries will possess all Permits and such Permits will be in full force and effect, except as have not had or would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws; Permits
Laws
Section 4.15
Permits
4.20 . Except as set forth on of the CCE Disclosure Letter and except as has not had or would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, with respect to the CCE North American Business Employees:
Labor Matters
Section 4.20
(a) CCE, its Subsidiaries and Affiliates are neither party to, nor bound by, any collective bargaining Contract or work rules or practices with any labor union, labor organization or works council; there are no collective bargaining Contracts or work rules or practices that pertain to any of the employees of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates; and no employees of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates are represented by any labor union, labor organization or works council with respect to their employment with CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
(b) No labor union, labor organization, works council, or group of employees of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates has made a pending demand for recognition or certification, and there are no representation or certification proceedings or petitions seeking a representation proceeding presently pending or threatened in writing to be brought or filed with the National Labor Relations Board or any other labor relations tribunal or authority. To the Knowledge of CCE, there is no labor union organizing activities with respect to any employees of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
 
 
(c) From December 31, 2008, there has been no actual or, to the Knowledge of CCE, threatened labor disputes, strikes, lockouts, slowdowns or work stoppages against or affecting CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
(d) CCE, its Subsidiaries and Affiliates and their respective employees, agents or representatives have not, to the Knowledge of CCE, committed any material unfair labor practice as defined in the National Labor Relations Act or similar foreign, state or local law.
(e) CCE, its Subsidiaries and Affiliates, as applicable, are not required to provide notice to or obtain the consent of any labor union, labor organization, works council or group of employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries in connection with the execution of this Agreement, except for any notices required to be provided under collective bargaining Contracts the failure of which to be provided would not, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the North American Business.
(f) CCE, its Subsidiaries and Affiliates: (i) have taken reasonable steps to properly classify and treat all of its workers as independent contractors or employees, (ii) have taken reasonable steps to properly classify and treat all of its employees as "exempt" or "non-exempt" from overtime requirements under applicable Law, and (iii) are not delinquent in any payments to, or on behalf of, any current or former independent contractors or employees for any services or amounts required to be reimbursed or otherwise paid.
(g) CCE, its Subsidiaries and Affiliates are and have been in compliance with all notice and other requirements under the Workers' Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act and any similar foreign, state or local law relating to plant closings and layoffs (the "").
WARN Act
(h) To the Knowledge of CCE, no officer or director of CCE or its Subsidiaries is in violation of any term of any employment agreement, non-disclosure agreement, statutory non-disclosure obligation, noncompetition agreement, restrictive covenant or other obligation to a former employer of any such employee relating (i) to the right of any such employee to be employed by CCE or its Subsidiaries or (ii) the use of trade secrets or proprietary information.
(i) The execution of this Agreement and the consummation of the Transactions will not result in any breach or other violation of any collective bargaining Contract, employment agreement, consulting agreement or any other labor-related agreement to which CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates is a party.
4.21 .
Environmental
(a) Except as has not or would not have a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, since December 31, 2006, CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates have at all times been, and are, in compliance with respect to the North American Business and the North American Business Assets, with all applicable Environmental Laws, including, but not limited to, possessing and complying with all Permits required for their operations under applicable
 
Environmental Laws; and have not received any written communication, whether from a Governmental Entity or other Person, alleging that CCE or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates is not in such compliance, and there are no past or present actions, conditions, activities, circumstances or occurrences that would prevent such compliance in the future. Within forty-five (45) days of the date hereof, CCE will deliver to TCCC a complete list of all material Permits held by CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates with respect to the North American Business or the North American Business Assets pursuant to applicable Environmental Laws as of the date of delivery.
(b) No transfers of permits or other governmental authorizations under Environmental Laws from any of the Other CCE Businesses will be required to permit the conduct of the North American Business in material compliance with all applicable Environmental Laws as of the Effective Time, as conducted by the North American Business immediately prior to the Effective Time.
(c) Except as would not result in a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, there is no Environmental Claim pending or, to the Knowledge of CCE threatened, against CCE, any North American Business Subsidiary or, to the Knowledge of CCE, any North American Joint Venture or, to the Knowledge of CCE, against any Person whose liability for any Environmental Claim, CCE, any North American Business Subsidiary or, to the Knowledge of CCE, any North American Joint Venture, has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law, in each case relating to the North American Business or the North American Business Assets.
(d) There are no past or present actions, conditions, activities, circumstances or occurrences, including the Release, threatened Release or presence of any Hazardous Material which could reasonably be expected to form the basis of any material Environmental Claim relating to the North American Business or the North American Business Assets against CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates, or to the Knowledge of CCE, against any Person whose liability for any Environmental Claim, CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law, except in each case as would not result in a North American Business Material Adverse Effect.
(e) None of CCE or its Subsidiaries and Affiliates is a party or subject to any administrative or judicial order or decree relating to the North American Business or the North American Business Assets pursuant to the Environmental Laws, except in each case as would not result in a North American Business Material Adverse Effect.
(f) CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates have not, and to the Knowledge of CCE, no other Person has, stored, deposited, discharged, buried, dumped or disposed of Hazardous Materials, on or beneath any Real Property currently or to the Knowledge of CCE, formerly owned, operated or leased by CCE, except for inventories of such substances to be used, and wastes generated therefrom, in the ordinary course of the North American Business, except in each case as would not result in a North American Business Material Adverse Effect. With respect to any offsite disposal location used by CCE to dispose of any Hazardous Materials, to the Knowledge of CCE, there have been no Releases of Hazardous Materials on or underneath any of such location that would result in a North American Business Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
(g) CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates have delivered or otherwise made available for inspection to TCCC true, complete and correct copies of any material non-privileged reports, studies, analyses, tests or monitoring possessed by CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates pertaining to potential liability under any Environmental Law relating to Hazardous Materials in, on, beneath or adjacent to any Real Property currently or formerly owned, operated or leased by CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates, or regarding the compliance by CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates with applicable Environmental Laws, in each case relating to the North American Business or the North American Business Assets.
(h) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the representations and warranties set forth in this are the sole and exclusive representations relating to Environmental Laws and environmental matters in this Agreement.
Section 4.21
4.22 . of the CCE Disclosure Letter sets forth a true, correct and complete list as of the date hereof of all Intercompany Agreements that are in effect as of the date hereof.
Intercompany Agreements
Section 4.22
4.23 .
Related Party Transactions
(a) Except for those Contracts set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, neither CCE nor its Subsidiaries or Affiliates is a party to any written agreement with any current or former director or officer of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates relating to the North American Business.
Section 4.23(a)
(b) of the CCE Disclosure Letter sets forth a true, correct, and complete list of (i) any and all outstanding loans or other extensions of credit made or guaranteed by CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to or for the benefit of any current or former director, officer, stockholder or employee of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates (other than advances of business expenses in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), and (ii) any and all outstanding loans, guarantees, or other extensions of credit of any amount made to or for the benefit of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, by any current or former director, officer, stockholder or employee of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, in each case, relating to the North American Business.
Section 4.23(b)
4.24 . of the CCE Disclosure Letter sets forth a true, correct and complete list as of the date hereof of all Policies that relate to the North American Business. Each such Policy is in full force and effect on the date hereof and each such policy will be in full force and effect as of the Effective Time, in each case, in accordance with the terms of the Policies, or a substituted policy shall have been obtained therefor. To the Knowledge of CCE, none of CCE, its Subsidiaries nor its Affiliates is in material default with respect to its obligations under any of the Policies. None of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates has received a written notice of cancellation or non-renewal of any Policy or binder.
Insurance
Section 4.24
4.25 . of the CCE Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of the date of this Agreement, all Guarantees issued by CCE or a North American Business Subsidiary on behalf of Splitco, any Other CCE Businesses Entity or the Other CCE Businesses. of the CCE Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of the date of this Agreement, all Guarantees issued by CCE or its Subsidiaries on behalf of any North American Business Entity or the North American Business.
Guarantees
Section 4.25(a)
Section 4.25(b)
 
 
4.26 .
Takeover Statutes; Other Restrictions
(a) No "business combination," "fair price," "moratorium," "control share acquisition" or other similar anti-takeover statute or regulation (other than Section 203 of the DGCL) or any similar anti-takeover provision in CCE's certificate of incorporation or by-laws (each, a "") is applicable to CCE, any shares of CCE Common Stock, the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Takeover Statute
(b) CCE and the CCE Board have taken all action so that neither TCCC, Merger Sub nor any of their Affiliates will be an "interested stockholder" or subject to restrictions or delays in entering into or consummating a "business combination" with CCE (in each case as such term is used in Section 203 of the DGCL) as a result of the execution of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions in the manner contemplated hereby.
4.27 . As of the Effective Time, each of the North American Business Entities, on the one hand, and Splitco and the Other CCE Businesses Entities, on the other hand, shall be Solvent.
Solvency
4.28 .
Disclosure Documents
(a) The Form S-4 and any amendments or supplements thereto, when filed, will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act. At the time the Form S-4 or any amendment or supplement thereto becomes effective, the registration statement, as amended or supplemented, will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading.
(b) The Proxy Statement/Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto will, when filed, comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Exchange Act. The Proxy Statement/Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, shall not, on the date the Proxy Statement/Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto is first mailed to the stockholders of CCE and at the time of the Required CCE Vote, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(c) None of the information supplied or to be supplied by CCE or Splitco for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Schedule 13E-3 will, at the time the Schedule 13E-3 or any amendment or supplement thereto is filed with the SEC, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this , no representation or warranty is made by CCE or Splitco with respect to statements made or omitted to
Section 4.28
 
be made or incorporated by reference in the Form S-4 or the Proxy Statement/Prospectus based on information supplied or failed to be supplied by or on behalf of TCCC for inclusion or incorporation by reference therein.
4.29 . Except for Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Lazard Frres & Co. LLC and Greenhill & Co., LLC, no broker, finder or financial advisor or other Person is entitled to any brokerage fees, commissions, finders' fees or financial advisory fees in connection with the Transactions by reason of any action taken by CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates (including the CCE Board).
Brokers
4.30 . None of CCE, Splitco, or any other Subsidiary of CCE, or any other Person on behalf of CCE is making (i) any express or implied representation or warranty in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement except for the representations and warranties contained in this and in any of the Ancillary Agreements and(ii) any representation or warranty regarding any action taken or inaction by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries to the extent specifically required pursuant to written specifications relating to the manufacture, display or storage of products by the North American Business, delivered to the North American Business by an employee (with a title no less senior than General Manager) of TCCC or its applicable Subsidiaries in their capacity as supplier of the North American Business.
Limitation of Representations and Warranties
Article IV
Except as set forth in the TCCC Disclosure Letter (with specific reference to the particular Section or subsection of this Agreement to which the information set forth in such TCCC Disclosure Letter relates; , that any information set forth in one section of the TCCC Disclosure Letter shall be deemed to apply to each other Section or subsection thereof or hereof as appropriate to which its relevance is readily apparent on its face), TCCC hereby represents and warrants to CCE and Splitco as of the date hereof and as of the Effective Time (except to the extent any such representation or warranty is made as of an earlier date, in which case, as of such earlier date), as follows:
provided
5.1 . TCCC is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing, and Merger Sub is a limited liability company duly formed, validly existing and in good standing, in each case, under the Laws of the State of Delaware. Each of TCCC and Merger Sub has all requisite corporate or limited liability company power and corporate or limited liability company authority, as applicable, to enter into this Agreement and each of the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, to perform its respective obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the Transactions. The execution, delivery and performance by each of TCCC and Merger Sub of this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which they are respectively a party, and the consummation of the Transactions, have been duly authorized by all necessary action, corporate or otherwise, on the part of TCCC and Merger Sub including the approval of TCCC's Board of Directors by a unanimous vote of those present. This Agreement has been (and each Ancillary Agreement to which TCCC is a party upon execution and delivery will be) duly executed and delivered by TCCC and Merger Sub and constitutes (and each
Organization; Authority
 
Ancillary Agreement to which TCCC is a party, upon execution and delivery, will constitute), assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by each of the other parties hereto and thereto, the legal, valid and binding obligation of each of TCCC and Merger Sub enforceable against each of TCCC and Merger Sub in accordance with its and their respective terms, except that such enforcement may be subject to any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or other Laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and to general equity principles.
5.2 .
No Violation; Consents and Approvals
(a) The execution, delivery and performance by each of TCCC and Merger Sub of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to the extent party hereto or thereto and the consummation of the Transactions do not (i) assuming all authorizations, consents, filings and approvals described in and have been obtained or made, violate any applicable Law to which TCCC or Merger Sub is subject, (ii) (A) require a consent, notice or approval under, conflict with, result in a violation or breach of, or constitute a default under, result in the acceleration of, or (B) create in any party the right to accelerate, terminate or cancel any Contract to which any of TCCC or Merger Sub is a party or (iii) violate the certificate of incorporation, by-laws, certificate of formation, limited liability company agreement or other organizational documents, as applicable, of TCCC or Merger Sub, except with respect to the foregoing  and  as would not reasonably be expected to prevent TCCC or Merger Sub from consummating the Transactions.
Sections 5.1
5.2(b)
clauses (i)
(ii)
(b) Except (i) as required under the HSR Act or any other Competition Law, (ii) for filings with the NYSE and compliance with the Securities Act, Exchange Act or any other applicable state or federal securities law and (iii) for the filing of the Certificate of Merger as contemplated by , and (iv) as set forth on of the TCCC Disclosure Letter, no consent or approval is required to be obtained by TCCC or Merger Sub from, no notice is required to be given by TCCC or Merger Sub to, and no filing is required to be made by TCCC or Merger Sub with, any Governmental Entity in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by TCCC and Merger Sub of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to the extent party hereto or thereto, other than in all cases where failure to obtain such consent or to give or make such notice or filing would not reasonably be expected to prevent TCCC or Merger Sub from consummating the Transactions.
Section 2.3
Section 5.2(b)
5.3 . As of the date of this Agreement, TCCC and its Subsidiaries own 168,956,718 shares of CCE Common Stock and these shares are all of the CCE Common Stock owned by TCCC and its Subsidiaries. TCCC or one of its Subsidiaries has good and valid title to the shares of CCE Common Stock owned by TCCC and its Subsidiaries free and clear of all Liens. Other than this Agreement, such shares of CCE Common Stock are not subject to any voting trust agreement or other contract, agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding, including any such agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding restricting or otherwise relating to the voting, dividend rights or disposition of such shares of CCE Common Stock.
Ownership of CCE Common Stock
5.4 . There is no Action pending or, to the Knowledge of TCCC, threatened against TCCC or any of its Subsidiaries, by or before any Governmental Entity, or by or on behalf
Litigation
 
of any third party, that, if adversely determined, would reasonably be expected to prevent or materially impair or delay the ability of TCCC or Merger Sub to consummate the Transactions. There are no judgments, decrees or orders of any Governmental Entity outstanding against or binding on TCCC or its assets, which would reasonably be expected to prevent TCCC or Merger Sub from consummating the Transactions.
5.5 .
Information Supplied
(a) None of the information supplied or to be supplied by TCCC for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Form S-4 will, at the time it becomes effective under the Securities Act (or, with respect to any post-effective amendment or supplement, at the time such post-effective amendment or supplement becomes effective), contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(b) None of the information supplied or to be supplied by TCCC for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus will, on the date it (or any amendment or supplement thereto is filed with the SEC) is first mailed to CCE stockholders and at the time of the CCE Stockholders Meeting, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(c) None of the information supplied or to be supplied by TCCC for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Schedule 13E-3 will, at the time the Schedule 13E-3 or any amendment or supplement thereto is filed with the SEC, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
5.6 . All of the issued and outstanding limited liability company interests of Merger Sub are, and at the Effective Time will be, owned by TCCC or a direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of TCCC. Merger Sub has not conducted any business prior to the date of this Agreement and has no, and prior to the Effective Time will have no Assets or Liabilities of any nature other than the shares of CCE Common Stock beneficially owned by TCCC, and those Assets or Liabilities incident to its formation and pursuant to this Agreement and the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Capitalization of Merger Sub
5.7 . Except for Allen & Company LLC and Goldman, Sachs & Co., no broker, finder or financial advisor or other Person is entitled to any brokerage fees, commissions, finders' fees or financial advisory fees in connection with the Transactions by reason of any action taken by TCCC, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
Brokers
5.8 . Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties in , immediately following the Effective Time, each of the North American Business Entities shall be Solvent.
Solvency
Section 4.27
 
 
5.9 . As of the date hereof, to the Knowledge of TCCC obtained during the course of due diligence in respect of the Transactions, there are no facts or circumstances that would serve as a basis for TCCC or its Subsidiaries to assert that CCE or Splitco breached any of the representations and warranties of CCE or Splitco contained in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement. TCCC shall be deemed to have waived in full any breach of CCE's or Splitco's representations and warranties of which TCCC has such Knowledge as of the date hereof and shall have no rights or remedies with respect thereto.
TCCC Knowledge
5.10 . Neither TCCC, nor any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, nor, to the Knowledge of TCCC, any holder of TCCC Common Stock, has taken any action or has failed to take any action which action or failure to take such action would cause the distribution of Enterprises KOC Acquisition Company to BHI not to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, the merger of BHI with and into CCE (or with and into a limited liability company wholly owned by, and treated for United States federal income Tax purposes as an entity disregarded from, CCE) not to qualify under Section 332 of the Code, the transfers to Splitco not to qualify under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, or the conversion of shares of CCE Common Stock at Closing not to qualify under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code (except as provided in Section 356(b) of the Code).
Actions Regarding Tax Treatment
5.11 . Except for the representations and warranties contained in this and in any of the Ancillary Agreements, none of TCCC, any other Subsidiary of TCCC, or any other Person on behalf of TCCC is making any other express or implied representation or warranty in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Limitation of Representations and Warranties
Article V
6.1 . CCE covenants and agrees that, from and after the date hereof until the Effective Time without the prior written consent of TCCC (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), except as (A) expressly contemplated by (x) the terms of this Agreement or (y) , or (B) set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, CCE shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, (i) operate the North American Business only in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (ii) use commercially reasonable efforts to preserve intact the material operations and facilities of the North American Business and the material relationships with their customers, suppliers, licensors, licensees, employees and contractors, (iii) perform and comply, in all material respects, with all agreements relating to the North American Business to which CCE or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, (iv) continue to participate in U.S. bottling system programs, initiatives and governing bodies, consistent with past practice and existing CCE contractual rights, including for example, the ARTM (Alternative Route to Market) Agreement and CLC (Customer Leadership Council) and (v) administer its insurance claims in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as (i) expressly contemplated by (x) the terms of this Agreement or (y) , or (ii) set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter, during the period from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time, without the prior written consent of TCCC (which consent shall not be unreasonably
Conduct of the North American Business
Schedule A
Section 6.1
Schedule A
Section 6.1
 
withheld or delayed), CCE shall not, and shall cause its Subsidiaries and (to the extent CCE and its Subsidiaries can do so pursuant to existing agreements with Affiliates) Affiliates not to, directly or indirectly, take, authorize or enter into any agreement or commitment to take any of the following actions with respect to the North American Business Entities or the North American Business:
(a) adopt, propose, approve or make any change in or amendment to, or waiver under, their respective organizational documents;
(b) split, combine, redeem or reclassify, purchase or otherwise acquire (except pursuant to an exercise of outstanding options and equity compensation grants) any of their capital stock or other equity interests or issue or authorize the issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for shares of their capital stock or other equity interests;
(c) issue, sell, deliver, pledge or otherwise encumber any shares of their capital stock or any securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, any shares of their capital stock, or grant or enter into any options, warrants, rights, agreements or commitments with respect to the issuance of such capital stock, or amend any terms of any such securities or agreements, except for issuances (i) upon the exercise or settlement of option or equity compensation awards granted under a CCE shareholder-approved equity compensation plan outstanding as of the date hereof, or (ii) expressly permitted pursuant to the Employee Matters Agreement;
(d) issue or sell any new debt securities, enter into any new credit facility (other than roll-overs under existing facilities on substantially the same terms) or otherwise incur (including by Guarantee of) any Indebtedness (or materially modify the terms thereof) to the extent that any such debt securities, credit facility or Indebtedness would constitute a Liability of a North American Business Entity, except for (i) borrowings in the ordinary course of business under the facilities set forth on of the CCE Disclosure Letter (and subject to the limitations specified therein) and (ii) Indebtedness (other than of the type described in clause (i), (ii) or (viii) of the definition of "Indebtedness") incurred in the ordinary course consistent with past practice.
Section 6.1(d)
(e) impose, or permit to be imposed, any Lien upon any of their assets, tangible or intangible other than Permitted Liens or Liens under existing credit facilities;
(f) undertake any of the actions set forth in of the Employee Matters Agreement;
Section 5.1
(g) sell, lease, license, transfer, abandon, permit to lapse or otherwise dispose of any Owned Real Property, Leased Real Property or other properties or assets, real, personal or mixed (including Intellectual Property Rights), other than Excluded Current Assets or sales of inventory or other Assets in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
(h) enter into any binding or non-binding commitment in respect of, or take any other action in furtherance of, any actual or proposed direct or indirect merger, consolidation, stock purchase, tender offer, exchange offer, sale or other disposition, recapitalization, restructuring or spin-off or any similar transaction of or involving CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any of the securities (or options, rights or warrants to purchase, or securities convertible into, such securities) of CCE, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or any transaction that is similar in form, substance or purpose to any of the foregoing transactions;
 
 
(i) acquire, directly or indirectly, whether by purchase, merger, consolidation or acquisition of stock or assets or otherwise, any assets, securities, properties, interests, or businesses or make any investment (whether by purchase of stock or securities, contributions to capital, loans to, or property transfers), in each case, other than (i) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice (it being understood and agreed that the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of any Person is not in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), or (ii) if not in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, with a value or purchase price (including the value of assumed Liabilities) not in excess of $10 million in any transaction or related series of transactions or $25 million in the aggregate, or as required by the terms of Contracts as in effect as of the date of this Agreement that are listed in of the CCE Disclosure Letter;
Section 6.1(i)
(j) except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, enter into, amend or modify in any material respect or terminate any Material Contract or material Real Property Lease;
(k) declare, set aside or pay any dividend or other distribution payable in stock or property (other than cash) with respect to its capital stock or other equity interests therein;
(l) enter into, terminate or consent to the termination of any joint venture, jointly owned partnership or other similar joint ownership agreements other than such agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
(m) other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, make or incur, or become committed to, any capital expenditure;
(n) except as provided in , cancel, forgive, settle or compromise, waive, or release any right or claim (or series of related rights and claims) or any Action or Indebtedness, other than any such cancellation, forgiveness, settlement, compromise or release in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, which does not require CCE or any North American Business Subsidiary to pay in excess of $10 million and does not impose on CCE or any North American Business Subsidiary any material ongoing obligation that extend past the Effective Time;
Section 6.10
(o) except as specifically provided in this Agreement or the Tax Sharing Agreement, (i) make, change or rescind any material Tax election, (ii) make, change or rescind any material method of accounting, (iii) consent to any extension or waiver of any limitation period with respect to any material Taxes, (iv) make a request for a Tax ruling (other than the Private Letter Ruling) or enter into a closing agreement, or settle or compromise any material audit, assessment, Tax claim or other controversy relating to Taxes, (v) file any material amended Tax Return or (vi) surrender any right to claim a refund or offset of any Taxes;
 
 
(p) adopt any plan of liquidation, dissolution, merger consolidation, restructuring, recapitalization or other reorganization of any North American Business Subsidiary or consent to any such action in respect of any North American Joint Venture;
(q) make any loans or advances of money other than (i) advances to CCE or one of the North American Business Subsidiaries in accordance with its cash management practices, consistent with past practice or (ii) loans or advances to customers of the North American Business in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or (iii) in connection with actions permitted by ;
Section 6.1(i)
(r) transfer or grant to, or acquire from, any Person any rights with respect to any Intellectual Property Rights or dispose of or permit to lapse any rights in or to any Intellectual Property Rights or dispose of or disclose to any Person any trade secret, in each case except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
(s) agree or permit any material North American Business Policy or other material insurance arrangement naming it as (or to which the North American Business is) a beneficiary or loss-payable payee to be cancelled, extinguished or terminated without replacement or otherwise agree or permit any amendment or modification thereto which would materially adversely affect the North American Business' rights with respect thereto existing on the date of this Agreement;
(t) dispose of or permit to lapse any environmental Permits material to the North American Business other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
(u) make any charitable contribution or engage in lobbying efforts other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; or
(v) authorize or enter into a Contract or transaction, or otherwise make an agreement or commitment that would be in contravention of any of the foregoing or the terms of this Agreement.
TCCC and CCE agree that they will continue to hold regular meetings of their senior executives to review the North American Business at which they will establish and/or modify targets, metrics and expectations regarding the North American Business. The parties will use commercially reasonable efforts to meet these targets, metrics and expectationsas modified from time to time, and unless TCCC or CCE intentionally deviates from such targets metrics or expectations, as modified from time to time, in a material respect without the consent of the other party, it will not constitute a breach of or . The agreement between TCCC and CCE set forth in this paragraph shall have no impact on the Employee Matters Agreement, unless otherwise specifically provided therein.
,
,
Section 6.1
6.2
6.2 . TCCC covenants and agrees that, from and after the date hereof until the Effective Time, without the prior written consent of CCE (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) and except as (i) expressly contemplated by (x) the terms of this Agreement or (y) , TCCC shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, (i) operate its business as it relates to CCE and its Subsidiaries only in the ordinary
Conduct of TCCC Business
Schedule A
 
course of business consistent with past practice in all material respects and (ii) perform and comply, in all material respects, with all agreements to which TCCC or any of its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and any of CCE or any of its Subsidiaries, or any customers, suppliers, licensors and contractors of TCCC or its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, is a party.
6.3 .
Transfer and Voting of CCE Common Stock
(a) From the date hereof until the Closing, TCCC and its Subsidiaries shall not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber, hypothecate or similarly dispose of, either voluntarily or involuntarily, any of the shares of CCE Common Stock owned by them, except to any wholly owned Subsidiary of TCCC.
(b) TCCC shall vote or cause to be voted all shares of CCE Common Stock beneficially owned by it or any of its Subsidiaries in favor of adoption of this Agreement at the CCE Stockholders Meeting.
6.4 .
Preparation of SEC Filings; CCE Stockholders Meeting
(a) Each of CCE, Splitco and TCCC (with respect to clause (iii)), shall, as promptly as reasonably practicable following the date hereof, (i) prepare and file a proxy statement/prospectus relating to the matters to be submitted to the stockholders of CCE at the CCE Stockholders Meeting (such proxy statement/prospectus, and any amendments or supplements thereto, the ""), (ii) prepare and file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 (of which the Proxy Statement/Prospectus shall form a part) with respect to the issuance of Splitco Common Shares in the Merger (such Form S-4, and any amendments or supplements thereto, the ""), and (iii) if applicable, file a Rule 13E-3 Transaction Statement on Schedule 13E-3 with the SEC (such Schedule 13E-3 and any amendments or supplements thereto, the ""). TCCC and CCE shall take all actions reasonably necessary to file the Schedule 13E-3 concurrently with the filing by Splitco of the Form S-4. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the applicable parties shall cause the foregoing filings to be made no later than May 31, 2010.
Proxy Stat
e
ment/Prospectus
Form S-4
Schedule 13E-3
(b) CCE, Splitco and TCCC, as the case may be, shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the Form S-4 and, if applicable, the Schedule 13E-3 to be cleared by the SEC and the Form S-4 to become effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable after each such filing and to keep the registration statement effective as long as is necessary to consummate the Separation Transactions and the Merger. CCE shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Proxy Statement/Prospectus to be mailed to its stockholders as promptly as practicable after the Form S-4 becomes effective.
(c) Each of CCE, Splitco and TCCC shall promptly provide copies, consult with each other and prepare written responses with respect to any written comments received from the SEC with respect to the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the Form S-4 and, if applicable, the Schedule 13E-3 and advise one another of any oral comments received from the SEC. Each of CCE and Splitco shall use its reasonable best efforts to ensure that the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and the Form S-4 comply in all material respects with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, as the case may be.
 
 
TCCC and CCE shall, if applicable, use its reasonable best efforts to ensure that the Schedule 13E-3 complies in all material respects with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC under the Exchange Act.
(d) Each of CCE, Splitco and TCCC shall make all necessary filings with respect to the Separation Transactions, the Merger and the transactions contemplated hereby under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and applicable state "blue sky" laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. Each of CCE, Splitco and TCCC will advise the other party, promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the time when the Form S-4 has become effective or any supplement or amendment has been filed, the issuance of any stop order, the suspension of the qualification of the Splitco Common Stock issuable in connection with the Merger for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or any request by the SEC for amendment of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the Form S-4 or the Schedule 13E-3 or comments thereon and responses thereto or requests by the SEC for additional information. If, at any time prior to the Effective Time, any information relating to CCE, Splitco or TCCC, or any of their respective Affiliates, officers or directors should be discovered by CCE, Splitco or TCCC that should be set forth in an amendment or supplement to the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the Form S-4 or the Schedule 13E-3 so that such documents would not include any misstatement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, the party hereto that discovers such information shall promptly notify the other parties hereto and an appropriate amendment or supplement describing such information shall be promptly filed with the SEC and, to the extent required by Law, disseminated to the stockholders of CCE.
(e) CCE shall take all action necessary to call, give notice of, convene and hold a meeting of its stockholders as promptly as reasonably practicable for the purpose of obtaining the Required CCE Vote (the ""), and in any event within 45 days following the date upon which the Form S-4 becomes effective. CCE shall (i) use best efforts to solicit votes at the CCE Stockholders Meeting in accordance with applicable legal requirements; (ii) subject to , cause the CCE Recommendation (including the recommendation of the Affiliated Transaction Committee) to be included in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus; (iii) subject to , not withdraw, modify or qualify the CCE Recommendation in any manner adverse to TCCC or recommend an Acquisition Proposal (any of the foregoing in this clause (iii) or the failure to cause the CCE Recommendation (including the recommendation of the Affiliated Transaction Committee) to be included in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, or any publicly disclosed recommendation to the CCE Board or any other Person by the Affiliated Transaction Committee of any of the foregoing, a "") and (iv) otherwise comply with all legal requirements applicable to such meeting.
CCE
Stockholders Meeting
Section 6.5
Section 6.5
Change in
CCE
Re
c
ommendation
(f) TCCC shall provide to CCE in connection with the Form S-4, information regarding TCCC's executive officers' and directors' ownership of CCE Common Stock as of a recent date.
 
 
6.5 .
No Solicitation; Other Offers
(a) Except as expressly permitted under , neither CCE nor any of its Subsidiaries shall, nor shall the Representatives of CCE or any of its Subsidiaries, directly or indirectly, (i) solicit, initiate, knowingly encourage or otherwise facilitate the submission of any Acquisition Proposal, (ii) enter into or participate in any discussions or negotiations with, furnish any information relating to CCE or any of its Subsidiaries or afford access to the business, properties or Records of CCE or any of its Subsidiaries to, otherwise cooperate in any way with, or assist, participate in, facilitate or encourage any effort by any Person that is seeking to make, or has made, an Acquisition Proposal, (iii) grant any waiver or release under any standstill or similar agreement with respect to any class of equity securities of CCE or any of its Subsidiaries, (iv) approve any transaction under, or any Person becoming an "interested stockholder" under, Section 203 of the DGCL or (v) enter into any agreement in principle, letter of intent, term sheet, merger agreement, acquisition agreement, option agreement or other similar Contract or instrument relating to an Acquisition Proposal. It is agreed that any violation of the restrictions on CCE set forth in this by any of its Subsidiaries or any Representative of CCE or any of its Subsidiaries shall constitute a breach hereof by CCE.
Section 6.5(b)
Section 6.5(a)
(b) Notwithstanding or , at any time prior to obtaining the Required CCE Vote:
Sections 6.4(e)
6.5(a)
(i) CCE, directly or indirectly through advisors, agents or other intermediaries, may (A) engage or participate in negotiations or discussions with any Person and its Representatives that, subject to CCE's compliance with has made after the date of this Agreement an unsolicited bona fide written Acquisition Proposal that the CCE Board believes in good faith constitutes or is reasonably likely to lead to a Superior Proposal; and (B) furnish to such Person or its Representatives nonpublic information relating to CCE or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to a customary confidentiality agreement (a copy of which shall be provided for informational purposes only to TCCC) with such Person; , that all such information (to the extent that such information has not been previously provided or made available to TCCC) is provided or made available to TCCC, as the case may be, prior to or substantially concurrently with the time it is provided or made available to such Person; and
Section 6.5(a)
provided
(ii) subject to compliance with and , if applicable, the CCE Board may make a Change in CCE Recommendation;
Section 6.5(c)
Section 6.5(d)
in each case referred to in the foregoing clauses (i) and (ii) only if the CCE Board determines in good faith, after consultation with outside legal counsel, that the failure to take such action would be inconsistent with its fiduciary duties under applicable Law.
In addition, nothing contained herein shall prevent the CCE Board from (i) complying with Rule 14e-2(a) under the Exchange Act with regard to an Acquisition Proposal so long as any position taken or statement made to so comply is consistent with this ; , that any such position taken or statement made that addresses or relates to the approval, recommendation or declaration of advisability by CCE's Board with respect to this Agreement or an Acquisition Proposal shall be deemed to be a Change in CCE Recommendation
Section 6.5
provided
 
unless the CCE Board expressly reaffirms the CCE Recommendation in such statement or in connection with such action or (ii) issuing a "stop, look and listen" disclosure or similar communication of the type contemplated by Rule 14d-9(f) under the Exchange Act.
(c) The CCE Board shall not take any of the actions referred to in unless CCE shall have delivered to TCCC a prior written notice advising TCCC that it intends to take such action. In addition, CCE shall notify TCCC promptly (but in no event later than forty-eight (48) hours) after receipt by CCE (or any of its Representatives) of any Acquisition Proposal, any indication by a Person that it is considering making an Acquisition Proposal or any request for information relating to CCE or any of its Subsidiaries or for access to the business, properties, assets or Records of CCE or any of its Subsidiaries by any Person that has indicated that it may be considering making, or has made, an Acquisition Proposal. CCE shall provide such notice orally and in writing and shall identify the Person making, and the material terms and conditions of, any such Acquisition Proposal, indication or request. CCE shall keep TCCC informed, on a reasonably current basis, of the status and details of any such Acquisition Proposal, indication or request (whether communicated orally or in writing), and shall promptly (but in no event later than forty-eight (48) hours after receipt) provide to TCCC copies of all correspondence and written materials sent or provided to CCE or any of its Subsidiaries that describes any terms or conditions of any Acquisition Proposal. Any material amendment to the material financial terms of any Acquisition Proposal will be deemed to be a new Acquisition Proposal for purposes of CCE's compliance with this .
Section 6.5(b)
Section 6.5(c)
(d) Further, the CCE Board shall not make a Change in CCE Recommendation in response to an Acquisition Proposal, unless (i) CCE has received an Acquisition Proposal that constitutes a Superior Proposal, (ii) CCE promptly notifies TCCC, in writing at least three (3) Business Days before taking that action, of its intention to do so, and (iii) TCCC does not make, within three (3) Business Days after its receipt of that written notification, a binding offer that is at least as favorable to the stockholders of CCE as determined by the CCE Board (other than TCCC, Merger Sub and any other Affiliates of TCCC) as such Acquisition Proposal (it being understood and agreed that any amendment to the material financial terms of such Acquisition Proposal shall require a new written notification from CCE and a new three (3) Business Day period under this ).
Section 6.5(d)
(e) For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean, other than the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any proposal or offer made by TCCC or any of its Affiliates, any offer, proposal or inquiry relating to any transaction to effect, or any indication of interest by any third Person in, (i) any amalgamation, merger, reorganization, share exchange, consolidation, business combination, recapitalization, liquidation, dissolution spin-off, split off or similar transaction involving CCE or any of its Subsidiaries whose assets, individually or in the aggregate, constitute 15% or more of the consolidated assets of CCE, or any purchase or sale of 15% or more of the consolidated assets (including stock of CCE's Subsidiaries) of CCE and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (ii) any purchase or sale of, or tender or exchange offer (including a self-tender offer) for, voting securities of CCE or any of its Subsidiaries that, if consummated, would result in any Person (or the stockholders of such Person) beneficially owning securities representing 15% or more of CCE's total voting power (or of the surviving entity in such transaction) or the voting power of any of its Subsidiaries whose assets, individually or in the aggregate, constitute 15% or more of the consolidated assets of CCE.
Acquisition Proposal
 
 
(f) For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a bona fide, unsolicited written Acquisition Proposal for at least a majority of the total number of outstanding shares of the CCE Common Stock or all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of CCE and its Subsidiaries on terms that the CCE Board determines in good faith by a majority vote, after consultation with a financial advisor of nationally recognized reputation and outside legal counsel and taking into account all the terms and conditions of the Acquisition Proposal, including the expected timing and likelihood of consummation, any break-up fees, expense reimbursement provisions, conditions to consummation (including any conditions relating to financing, regulatory approvals or other events or conditions beyond the control of the party invoking the condition) and availability of any necessary financing, to provide greater value to CCE's stockholders (in their capacity as stockholders of CCE and excepting TCCC, its Affiliates and its officers and directors) than the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (taking into account any binding offer by TCCC to amend the terms of this Agreement pursuant to and which the CCE Board determines is reasonably likely to be consummated).
Superior Proposal
Section 6.5(d)
(g) CCE shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries and its and their Representatives to, cease immediately and cause to be terminated any and all existing activities, discussions or negotiations, if any, with any Person and its Representatives and its financing sources conducted prior to the date hereof with respect to any Acquisition Proposal.
(h) Any determination made or action taken by the CCE Board in accordance with and shall be made or taken only after the Affiliated Transaction Committee has approved such determination or action.
Section 6.5(b)
Section 6.5(d)
6.6 .
NYSE Matters
(a) Splitco shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the shares of Splitco Common Stock to be issued to pay the Merger Consideration to be listed on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance.
(b) Prior to the Effective Time, CCE and Splitco shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and do or cause to be done all things, reasonably necessary, proper or advisable on its part under applicable Laws (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the regulations of the NYSE) to enable the de-listing by the Surviving Entity of the CCE Common Stock from the NYSE and the deregistration of the CCE Common Stock under the Exchange Act as promptly as practicable after the Effective Time.
6.7 .
Financing
(a) Prior to the Effective Time, Splitco or one or more of its Subsidiaries shall secure and draw upon one or more borrowing facilities or consummate a financing in the aggregate amount sufficient to pay the aggregate Cash Consideration (""); provided that neither CCE nor Splitco shall be obligated to sell assets nor shall they be required to cause Splitco's working capital to be inadequate as a result of the terms of the financing.
Financing
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, CCE and Splitco shall be excused from the obligation set forth in in the event that financing is required to enable Splitco to have such cash amounts, and (i) there shall have occurred and be continuing a material adverse
Section 6.7(a)
 
change or disruption in the financial, banking or capital markets generally which has rendered debt financing generally unavailable to companies similarly situated to Splitco (taking into account the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Nordic SPA) and (ii) CCE and Splitco shall have used their best efforts to permit Splitco to obtain such required financing (an "").
Excused Financing Failure
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) in the event that at any time prior to the Termination Date the conditions set forth in  and are not reasonably likely to be satisfied as of the Closing, at TCCC's option, Splitco and/or one of its Subsidiaries, on one hand, and TCCC or one of its Affiliates, on the other hand, shall enter into a loan agreement on commercially reasonable terms to permit Splitco and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries to borrow such amount so that, immediately following the distribution of such amount to CCE and any other distribution required to be made pursuant to paragraph 7 of Schedule A, the aggregate cash available to CCE will be no less than the sum of clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph 7 of Schedule A (taking clauses (iii) and (iv) into account as a negative amount); and (b) in the event that TCCC advises Splitco in writing of its desire to exercise such option prior to the Termination Date, there shall not be deemed to be an Excused Financing Failure.
Section 6.7 (e)
6.7(f)
(d) CCE and TCCC shall each be permitted to extend the Closing until the 15 month anniversary of the date hereof in order to permit Splitco and CCE to obtain the Financing.
(e) In order to ensure that TCCC is not required to close the Transaction if CCE does not have cash sufficient to pay the Cash Consideration, TCCC's obligation to close the Transaction is conditioned on CCE having at the Effective Time cash in an amount sufficient to pay the aggregate Cash Consideration.
(f) In order to ensure that CCE is not required to close the Transaction if there has occurred an Excused Financing Failure, in the event of such an Excused Financing Failure, CCE and Splitco shall have no further obligations to consummate the Transactions or to pay the Cash Consideration and no party shall have any recourse against the other.
6.8 .
Access to Information Prior to the Closing; Confidentiality
(a) Subject to applicable Law, during the period from the date of this Agreement through the Effective Time, CCE shall, and shall cause its applicable Subsidiaries and Affiliates to, give TCCC and TCCC's Representatives reasonable access during regular business hours to all offices, personnel, properties, facilities and Records of CCE, and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates as relates to the North American Business or North American Business Entities (with respect to the North American Joint Ventures, to the extent provided in existing contracts) and as they may reasonably request, and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to TCCC such financial and operating data and other information as exists with respect to the offices, personnel, properties, facilities and Records of the North American Business as TCCC may from time to time reasonably request; , , that TCCC and TCCC's Representatives shall take such action in such a way as to avoid unreasonably disrupting the normal business of CCE and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates. The parties shall cooperate to adopt such protocols as are reasonably necessary to comply with applicable Law in order to provide for the protection of any competitively sensitive information that may be shared by the parties pursuant to this Agreement.
provided
however
 
 
(b) Each of TCCC and Merger Sub shall hold and shall cause TCCC's Representatives to hold any information which it or they receive in connection with the activities and Transactions in strict confidence in accordance with and subject to the terms of the confidentiality agreement, dated as of November 13, 2008, between CCE and TCCC (the ""), which shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and any termination of this Agreement pursuant to hereof; , that this shall terminate and have no further force or effect following the Closing.
Confidentiality Agreement
Article VIII
provided
Section 6.8(b)
(c) From and after the date of this Agreement, subject to , CCE and Splitco shall hold, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries, Affiliates and Representatives to hold, any information relating to the North American Business Entities and the North American Business (the "") and the Transactions (the "") in strict confidence in accordance with the Confidentiality Agreement (in the case of Splitco, as if were a party thereto) and not disclose, use or release any such North American Business Confidential Information or Transaction Information without the prior written consent of TCCC; , that (i) the North American Business Confidential Information shall not include any information that is disclosed by CCE, Splitco or their respective Representatives prior to the Closing in connection with the operation of the North American Business in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or (ii) the North American Business Confidential Information and Transaction Information shall not include any information that is or becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by CCE, Splitco or their respective Representatives in violation of this Agreement; , , that the provisions of this will not prohibit any retention of copies of Records required by any applicable Law or the disclosure of any information as required by Law or legal process. This shall terminate and have no further force or effect following the termination of this Agreement.
Section 6.13
North American Business Confidential Information
Transa
c
tion Information
provided
provided
further
Section 6.8(c)
Section 6.8(c)
(d) From and after the date of this Agreement, subject to , CCE and TCCC shall hold, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries, Affiliates and Representatives to hold, any information relating to the Other CCE Businesses Entities and the Other CCE Businesses (the "") and Transaction Information in strict confidence in accordance with the Confidentiality Agreement and not disclose, use or release any such Other CCE Businesses Confidential Information or Transaction Information without the prior written consent of Splitco; , that (i) the Other CCE Businesses Confidential Information shall not include any information that is disclosed by CCE, Splitco or their respective Representatives prior to the Closing in connection with the operation of the Other CCE Businesses in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or (ii) the Other CCE Businesses Confidential Information and Transaction Information shall not include any information that is or becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by CCE, Splitco or their respective Representatives in violation of this Agreement; , , that the provisions of this will not prohibit any retention of copies of Records required by any applicable Law or the disclosure of any information as required by Law or legal process. This shall terminate and have no further force or effect following the termination of this Agreement.
Section 6.13
Other
CCE
Businesses Confidential Information
provided
provided
further
Section 6.8(d)
Section 6.8(d)
 
 
(e) The parties agree that they shall each be responsible for any breach or violation of the provisions of this by any of their respective Subsidiaries, Affiliates or Representatives.
Section 6.8
6.9 .
Records
(a) At the Effective Time or as soon as practicable thereafter, CCE or Splitco (to the extent delivery occurs after the Effective Time) shall deliver or cause to be delivered (including by delivery of the premises in which such Records are located) to TCCC, to the extent reasonably practicable, all original agreements, documents, books, minute books, corporate charters and by-laws or comparable governing documents, records and files (including in electronic form) (collectively, ""), if any, in the possession of any of the Other CCE Businesses Entities relating to the North American Business and the North American Business Entities to the extent not then in the possession of the North American Business Entities, , that TCCC recognizes that certain Records may contain incidental information relating to CCE or the North American Business Subsidiaries or may relate primarily to Subsidiaries or divisions of CCE other than the North American Business, and that such Records in the possession of the Other CCE Businesses Entities may be retained by the Other CCE Businesses Entities, who shall, to the extent requested to do so, instead of delivering these records may provide copies of the relevant portions thereof to TCCC.
Records
provided
(b) For a period of seven (7) years following the Closing, upon reasonable notice, TCCC shall afford, and shall cause CCE to afford, to Splitco and its Representatives reasonable access during normal business hours to, and examine and make copies of, all books, records and personnel of the North American Business (i) which relate to transactions or events occurring prior to the Closing ("") or transactions or events occurring subsequent to the Closing which are related to or arise out of Pre-Closing Transactions, to the extent such Pre-Closing Transactions relate to Liabilities retained by Splitco pursuant to this Agreement or as necessary to comply with applicable Law or legal process or financial reporting obligations or defend against any claims or allegations made against Splitco or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or Representatives or (ii) as reasonably required in connection with Splitco's performance of its obligations under the Ancillary Agreements. Splitco will, and will cause its Representatives to, hold in confidence, all confidential or proprietary information to which it is given access to pursuant to this subject to any disclosure required by Law or legal process.
Pre-Closing Transactions
Section 6.9
(c) For a period of seven (7) years following the Closing, upon reasonable notice, Splitco shall afford to TCCC and its Representatives reasonable access during normal business hours to, and examine and make copies of, all books, records and personnel of Splitco (i) which relate to Pre-Closing Transactions or transactions or events occurring subsequent to the Closing which are related to or arise out of Pre-Closing Transactions, to the extent such Pre-Closing Transactions relate to Liabilities of CCE or any of the North American Business Subsidiaries or as necessary to comply with applicable Law or legal process or financial reporting obligations or defend against any claims or allegations made against TCCC or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or Representatives related to the North American Business or (ii) as reasonably required in connection with TCCC's performance of its obligations under the Ancillary Agreements. TCCC will hold, and will cause its Representatives to hold, in confidence, all confidential or proprietary information to which it has had access to pursuant to this subject to any disclosure required by Law or legal process.
Section 6.9
 
 
(d) From and after the Closing, books and records pertaining to Taxes shall be governed by the Tax Sharing Agreement as well as this Agreement; , however, that in the case of any conflict of any provision with respect to books and records pertaining to Taxes as between the Tax Sharing Agreement and this Agreement, the Tax Sharing Agreement shall govern.
provided
6.10 .
Notification of Certain Matters; Defense of Litigation
(a) Prior to the Effective Time, each of CCE and TCCC shall give written notice to the other promptly (and in any event not more than ten (10) Business Days) after becoming aware of the occurrence or non-occurrence of any event, the occurrence or non-occurrence of which, would be likely to cause any condition set forth in to be unsatisfied at the Closing.
Article VII
(b) Prior to the Effective Time, CCE shall give prompt notice to TCCC, and TCCC shall give prompt notice to CCE, of (i) any notice or other communication received by such party from any Governmental Entity in connection with the Transactions or from any Person alleging that the consent of such Person is or may be required in connection with the Transactions, if the subject matter of such communication or the failure of such party to obtain such consent could be material to the North American Business or the Other CCE Businesses, as the case may be, and (ii) any Action commenced or, to the Knowledge of CCE or the Knowledge of TCCC, as applicable, threatened against, relating to or involving or otherwise affecting such party or any of its Subsidiaries that relate to the Transactions. Prior to the Effective Time, CCE shall notify TCCC if CCE incurs any Liens on the North American Business Assets of a type described in clause (iv) of the definition of "Permitted Liens".
(c) Subject to , each of the parties hereto agrees to vigorously defend against all Actions in which such party or any of its Subsidiaries is named as a defendant which seek to enjoin, restrain or prohibit the Transactions or any part thereof or seek Losses with respect to any such transactions. The parties shall consult with each other in good faith with respect to the settlement of any Actions, that (i) neither CCE, its Subsidiaries nor any of its Affiliates shall settle any Action or fail to perfect on a timely basis any right to appeal any judgment rendered or ordered to the extent that any such action or inaction (or agreement entered into in connection therewith) would be binding on or otherwise require material payments by TCCC or any of the North American Business Entities, without the prior written consent of TCCC (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) and (ii) neither TCCC, its Subsidiaries nor any of its Affiliates shall settle any Action or fail to perfect on a timely basis any right to appeal any judgment rendered or ordered to the extent that any such action or inaction (or agreement entered into in connection therewith) would be binding on or otherwise require material payments by Splitco or any of the Other CCE Businesses Entities without the prior written consent of Splitco (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed). Each of the parties further agrees to use its respective commercially reasonable efforts to cause each of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, directors and officers to vigorously defend any Action in which such Subsidiary or Affiliate, director or officer is named as a defendant
Section 6.12
provided
 
and which seeks any such relief to comply with this to the same extent as if such Person were a party hereto. TCCC, CCE or Splitco, as the case may be, shall give the other party, as applicable, the reasonable opportunity to participate at TCCC's, CCE's or Splitco's sole expense, as applicable, in the defense of any Action by a third party against TCCC, CCE or Splitco, as applicable, or their respective directors or officers relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby.
Section 6.10(c)
(d) At all times from and after the Effective Time, CCE and Splitco shall use commercially reasonable efforts to make available to the other, upon reasonable written request, their or any of their Subsidiaries, officers, directors, employees and agents as witnesses to the extent that (i) such individuals may reasonably be required in connection with the prosecution or defense of any Action which the requesting party may from time to time be involved (except for claims, demands or Actions between a North American Business Entity on the one hand and Splitco or any of its Subsidiaries on the other hand) and (ii) there is no conflict in the Action between the requesting party and the other party. A party providing a witness to the other party under this Section shall be entitled to receive from the recipient of such services, upon the presentation of invoices therefor, payments for such amounts, relating to disbursements and other out-of-pocket expenses (which shall not include the costs of salaries and benefits of employees who are witnesses or any pro rata portion of overhead or other costs of employing such employees which would have been incurred by such employees' employer regardless of the employees' service as witnesses), as may be reasonably incurred and properly paid under applicable Law.
(e) sets forth the parties understanding with respect to certain Actions described therein.
Schedule B
6.11 . Without limiting the generality of hereof, and subject to hereof, (a) CCE shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain all consents and approvals of all third parties required under any Contracts other than those Contracts set forth on of the CCE Disclosure Letter that are required to be obtained in connection with the consummation of the Transactions or any Permits required in connection with the consummation of the Transactions and TCCC shall cooperate as reasonably requested by CCE and (b) TCCC shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain all consents and approvals of all third parties required only as to those Contracts set forth on of the CCE Disclosure Letter that are required to be obtained in connection with the consummation of the Transactions or any Permits required in connection with the consummation of the Transactions and CCE shall cooperate as reasonably requested by TCCC; , that (x) neither CCE, its Subsidiaries nor any of its Affiliates shall be required to make any payment of money or grant any concession and CCE and its Affiliates shall not enter into any agreement that would be binding on TCCC or any of the North American Business Entities following the Effective Time in connection with obtaining any such consent or Permit without the prior written consent of TCCC and (y) neither TCCC, its Subsidiaries nor any of its Affiliates shall be required to make any payment of money or grant any concession and TCCC and its Affiliates shall not enter into any agreement that would be binding on Splitco or any of the Other CCE Business Subsidiaries following the Effective Time in connection with obtaining any such consent or Permit without the prior written consent of Splitco. Each of the Parties hereto shall make or cause to be made all filings and submissions under Laws applicable to it as may be required for the consummation of the Transactions. TCCC and CCE shall coordinate and cooperate with each other in exchanging
Consents; Approvals
Section 3.7
Section 3.3
Section 6.11
Section 6.11
provided
 
such information and assistance as any of the parties hereto may reasonably request in connection with the foregoing. If any consent or approval required in connection with the assignment or transfer of any Contract (other than any Shared Contract the treatment of which shall be governed by ) is not obtained, or would be ineffective, violate any applicable Law or would adversely affect the rights of CCE or its Subsidiaries thereunder such that CCE or the North American Business Subsidiaries would not receive all rights under such Contract contained in the North American Business Assets or Splitco or the Other CCE Businesses Entities would not receive all rights under any such Contract contained in the Other CCE Businesses Assets, Splitco and TCCC shall cooperate in a mutually agreeable arrangement under which TCCC (directly or indirectly through CCE or the North American Business Subsidiaries) or Splitco (directly or indirectly through its Subsidiaries), as applicable, would obtain the benefits and assume the obligations thereunder in accordance with this Agreement, including sub-contracting, sub-licensing or sub-leasing to the applicable party, or under which the applicable party would enforce for the benefit of the other, any and all rights of such other party against a third party thereto; , , that neither (x) Splitco or its Subsidiaries nor (y) any of TCCC or the North American Business Entities shall be materially and adversely affected as a result of providing such benefits and any such arrangement is not otherwise covered by an Ancillary Agreement.
Section 3.3
provided
however
6.12 . TCCC and CCE shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain the expiration of any waiting period under the HSR Act or any foreign Competition Law applicable to the consummation of the Transactions, including (a) making all filings with the Federal Trade Commission and the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice required in connection herewith and therewith as promptly as possible (but in any event no later than the later of (1) ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement and (2) the date of the initial filing of the Form S-4, unless agreed to by the parties), (b) cooperating and consulting with one another to determine whether any other filings are required, or deemed advisable, to be made with, or consents, permits, authorizations or approvals are required, or are deemed advisable, to be obtained from any third party or any other Governmental Entity in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the Transactions, (c) timely making all such filings and timely seeking all such consents, permits, authorizations, approvals and waivers and (d) generally, taking or causing to be taken, all other actions necessary to avoid or eliminate each and every impediment under any Competition Law that may be asserted by any Governmental Entity with respect to the Transactions so as to enable the Closing to occur as soon as reasonably possible. To the extent not expressly prohibited by applicable Law, TCCC and CCE shall each cooperate, and cause its Representatives to cooperate, with the other and any Governmental Entity in taking all actions, and furnishing all information, reasonably necessary to obtain any approval, consent or termination of any applicable period from any such Governmental Entity, and shall comply promptly with all legal requirements that may be imposed on it with respect to the Closing. To the extent not expressly prohibited by applicable Law, TCCC shall have the right to lead and control, in its sole discretion, all discussions, submissions, negotiations and other communications with all Governmental Entities in connection with all waiting periods, authorizations or waivers required to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and, subject to reasonable concerns regarding confidentiality, TCCC shall keep CCE reasonably informed with respect to such matters. In connection with the actions and procedures referenced in this , CCE shall, and shall cause their respective Representatives to, (i) promptly and fully inform TCCC of any written or material oral communication received from or
Antitrust Notification
Section 6.12
 
given to any Governmental Entity, (ii) subject to reasonable concerns regarding confidentiality of any information that is the subject thereof, permit TCCC to review any submission required to be made by CCE to any Governmental Entity, (iii) consult with TCCC in advance of any meeting, material conference or material discussion required by any Governmental Entity and (iv) if permitted to do so by the relevant Governmental Entity, give TCCC the opportunity to attend and participate in any such meetings, conferences and discussions. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, TCCC and CCE will use their respective reasonable best efforts to offer to take, or cause to be taken, all other actions and do, or cause to be done, all other things necessary, proper or advisable to consummate and make effective the Transactions, including taking all such further action as reasonably may be necessary to resolve such objections, if any, as any Governmental Entity or any other Person may assert under any Law with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, and to avoid or eliminate each and every impediment under any Law that may be asserted by any Governmental Entity with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby so as to enable the Closing to occur as soon as expeditiously possible; , that (i) nothing in this shall require, or be construed to require, TCCC or any of its respective Subsidiaries to take any action, including respond to and/or defend any court or administrative proceeding, propose or make any divestiture or other undertaking, or propose or enter into any consent decree or to take any action which TCCC reasonably determines could be material to the benefits expected to be derived by TCCC as a result of the transactions contemplated hereby or be material to the business of TCCC and its Subsidiaries or the North American Business as currently conducted or as contemplated to be conducted following the transactions contemplated hereby, and (ii) CCE shall not take (or permit any of its Affiliates to take) any action described in clause (i) above without TCCC's prior written consent; , , that if TCCC does not provide its written consent after being requested to do so, CCE will not be liable for failing to take any such action, but this shall not affect CCE's obligation to otherwise take action required by this , subject to TCCC's consent, if applicable.
provided
however
Section 6.12
provided
further
Section 6.12
6.13 . CCE and TCCC shall not, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries not to, issue any public report, statement or press release or otherwise make any public statement with respect to this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions, from the date hereof through the Effective Time, without prior consultation with and approval of the other party (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), except as may be required by Law or securities exchange regulations applicable to any such party, in which case such party shall advise the other party and discuss the contents of the disclosure before issuing any such report, statement or press release. In addition, prior to the Effective Time, TCCC and CCE shall not send any general written communication to suppliers, lenders, creditors, distributors, employees, customers or others having business or financial relationships with the North American Business Subsidiaries pertaining to this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions, without the prior written approval of the other party (which approval will not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed).
Public Announcements
6.14 .
Financial Statements
(a) CCE and Splitco shall prepare and deliver to TCCC:
(i) As promptly as practicable following the date hereof (but in no event later than 60 days after the date hereof), an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of
 
the North American Business Entities at December 31, 2009 and related unaudited consolidated statements of income of the North American Business Entities for the year ended December 31, 2009 (collectively, the ""), which Unaudited North American Business Financial Statements shall reflect an allocation of corporate expenses and will present fairly in all material respects the financial position and results of operations of the North American Business Entities as of the dates and for the periods presented (subject to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of complete footnotes); and
Una
udited North American Bus
i
ness Fina
n
cial Statements
(ii) As promptly as practicable following the date hereof (but in no event later than June 15, 2010), an audited consolidated balance sheet (including consolidating entries) of the North American Business Entities at December 31, 2009 and related audited consolidated statements of income and cash flows (including consolidating entries) of the North American Business Entities for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009 (collectively, the ""), together with a report without qualification or exception of the auditors of the North American Business Entities, which Audited North American Business Financial Statements will present fairly in all material respects the financial position and results of operations of the North American Business Entities as of the date and for the periods presented. In the event that the Closing has not occurred prior to such time as documents required to be filed by TCCC with the SEC would require inclusion of an audited balance sheet of the North American Business Entities at December 31, 2010 and related audited statements of income and cash flows of the North American Business Entities for the year ended December 31, 2010, CCE and Splitco shall use commercially reasonable efforts to prepare and deliver such financial statements (including consolidating entries) as promptly as practicable following such date, together with a report without qualification or exception of the auditors of the North American Business Entities, which financial statements will present fairly in all material respects the financial position and results of operations of the North American Business Entities as of the dates and for the periods presented.
Audited North American Business Financial Statements
(b) CCE and Splitco shall, as promptly as practicable following the execution of this Agreement (but no later than 60 days after the date hereof), prepare (and deliver a copy to TCCC) an audited balance sheet of the Other CCE Businesses at December 31, 2008 and 2009 and related audited statements of income and cash flows of the Other CCE Businesses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 (collectively, the ""). Further, CCE and Splitco shall promptly prepare on a quarterly basis updated unaudited balance sheets of the Other CCE Businesses and related unaudited statements of income and cash flows of the Other CCE Businesses (collectively, the "") until such time as the Form S-4 becomes effective and the Proxy Statement/Prospectus is mailed to the Splitco stockholders. In the event that the Form S-4 has not been declared effective and the Proxy Statement/Prospectus has not been mailed to stockholders of CCE prior to such time as such documents would require inclusion of an audited balance sheet of the Other CCE Businesses at December 31, 2010 and related audited statements of income and cash flows of the Other CCE Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2010 (the "" (or CCE and Splitco are otherwise required to disclose such information to stockholders of CCE), CCE and Splitco shall prepare the 2010 S-4 Financial Statements as promptly as practicable.
S-4 F
i
nancial Statements
S-4 Interim Statements
2010 S-4 Financial Stat
e
ments
 
 
(c) CCE covenants and agrees that during the period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending immediately prior to the Effective Time, it shall provide TCCC (i) within thirty (30) days of the end of each calendar month, the unaudited consolidated balance sheets of the two segments that comprise the North American Business as of the end of such month and the related unaudited interim consolidated statements of income and cash flow information for such monthly period in such forms as have been prepared for internal management purposes (which will not include quarter-end and other adjustments), and (ii) within thirty (30) days of the end of each fiscal quarter, unaudited consolidated balance sheets of the two segments that comprise the North American Business as of the end of such quarter and the related unaudited interim consolidated statements of income and cash flow information for such quarterly period setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year in such forms as have been prepared for internal management purposes (which will not include quarter-end and other adjustments) (each such financial statement in this clause (ii), an ""). Concurrently with the delivery of the Unaudited Interim Financial Statements, CCE shall provide TCCC with a certificate of an executive officer of CCE to the effect that the Unaudited Interim Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP and, except for the absence of normal year end closing procedures and adjustments, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition and operations of the North American Business as of the date thereof.
Unaudited Interim Financial Statement
(d) TCCC shall, as promptly as practicable following the execution of this Agreement (but no later than 60 days after the date hereof), prepare and deliver to CCE and Splitco, (i) an audited consolidated balance sheet of the Nordic Entities (separate for Norway and Sweden and with intercompany account information) at December 31, 2008 and 2009 and related audited consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Nordic Entities for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 (collectively, the ""), together with a report without qualification or exception of the auditors of the Nordic Entities, which Audited Nordic Financial Statements will present fairly in all material respects the financial position and results of operations of the Nordic Entities as of the dates and for the periods presented and (ii) an undaudited balance sheet of the Nordic Entities at December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 and related unaudited statements of income and cash flows of the Nordic Entities for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006. In the event that the Closing has not occurred prior to such time as documents required to be filed by CCE or Splitco with the SEC would require inclusion of an audited balance sheet of the Nordic Entities at December 31, 2010 and related audited statements of income and cash flows of the Nordic Entities for the year ended December 31, 2010, TCCC shall use reasonable best efforts to prepare and deliver such financial statements as promptly as practicable following such date, together with a report without qualification or exception of the auditors of the Nordic Entities, which financial statements will present fairly in all material respects the financial position and results of operations of the Nordic Entities as of the dates and for the periods presented.
Audited Nordic Financial Stat
e
ments
(e) TCCC shall promptly prepare and deliver to Splitco after the date hereof, monthly (within thirty (30) days of the end of each Accounting Cycle) and quarterly (within thirty (30) days of the end of each fiscal quarter), updated unaudited balance sheets of the Nordic Entities (separate for Norway and Sweden and with intercompany account information) and related unaudited statements of income and cash flows of the Nordic Entities (collectively, the "") until such time as the Form S-4 becomes effective and the Proxy
Nordic Interim Statements
 
Statement/Prospectus is mailed to the Splitco stockholders. In the event that the Form S-4 has not been declared effective and the Proxy Statement/Prospectus has not been mailed to stockholders of CCE prior to such time as such documents would require inclusion of an audited balance sheet of the Nordic Entities at December 31, 2010 and related audited statements of income and cash flows of the Nordic Entities for the year ended December 31, 2010 (the "") (or CCE and Splitco are otherwise required to disclose such information to stockholders of CCE), TCCC shall prepare and deliver to Splitco the 2010 Nordic Financial Statements as promptly as practicable.
2010
"
Nordic Financial Statements
6.15 .
Non-Competition
(a) For a period of five (5) years from and after the Closing Date, Splitco agrees that it will not (and will cause each of its Subsidiaries not to), without the prior written consent of TCCC, directly or indirectly, encourage, induce or entice any Person who is, as of the Effective Time, a customer of the North American Business to limit, reduce or cease to conduct business with TCCC or any of its Affiliates.
(b) For a period of five (5) years from and after the Closing Date, Splitco agrees that it will not (and will cause each of its Subsidiaries not to), without the prior written consent of TCCC, directly or indirectly, engage in or carry on a business in the North American Territory that would compete with the North American Business.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this shall prevent Splitco or any of its Subsidiaries from (i) obtaining less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding equity or participation interests in any Person, or (ii) engaging in any consolidation, amalgamation, merger or other business combination with, or making any acquisition of or investment in, or otherwise obtaining any direct or indirect interest in, any Person that is engaged in any business, trade or venture competing with the North American Business, if such business, trade or venture consists of less than twenty percent (20%) of the annual sales of such Person, determined by reference to the most recent fiscal year of such Person as of the date Splitco or any of its Subsidiaries engages in such transaction or obtains such direct or indirect interest in such Person; , that Splitco or its Subsidiary, as applicable, promptly, and in any event within one year of any such acquisition or transaction, divests itself of all of the assets or operations so acquired that are engaged in any of the actions prohibited in .
Section 6.15
provided
Section 6.15(b)
(d) The obligations of Splitco under this shall be in addition to any obligations it may have, directly or indirectly, under any other Contract. Splitco agrees that the remedy at law for any breach of the foregoing will be inadequate and that TCCC, in addition to any other relief available to it, shall be entitled to temporary and permanent injunctive relief without the necessity of proving actual damages.
Section 6.15
(e) If any of the provisions of this are found by any court of competent jurisdiction to be too broad in scope, whether as to activities restricted, the time period of such restrictions or the geographic areas in which such activities are restricted, the provisions of this shall nevertheless remain effective, but shall be deemed amended to the extent considered by such court to be reasonable, and shall be fully enforceable as so amended.
Section 6.15
Section 6.15
 
 
6.16 .
Payments of Receivables after Closing
(a) In the event that following the Closing, Splitco or any of its Affiliates receives any payments in respect of any receivables of the North American Business arising after the Closing, Splitco shall, or shall cause the applicable Affiliate to, receive such payment as the agent for CCE and deliver such payment to CCE promptly after such receipt.
(b) In the event that following the Closing, CCE or any of its Affiliates receives any payments in respect of any receivables of the Other CCE Businesses arising after the Closing, CCE shall, or shall cause the applicable Affiliate to, receive such payment as the agent for Splitco and deliver such payment to Splitco promptly after such receipt.
6.17 . After the date of this Agreement, until the third (3rd) anniversary of the Closing Date, Splitco shall, and shall cause its affiliates to, reasonably cooperate with TCCC (at TCCC's expense) in connection with each of TCCC and CCE's preparation of historical financial statements of the North American Business as required for TCCC and CCE to comply with their respective obligations following the Closing. After the Closing, until the third (3rd) anniversary of the Closing Date, TCCC shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, reasonably cooperate with Splitco (at Splitco's expense) in connection with Splitco's preparation of pro forma and historical financial statements of the Other CCE Businesses (and the Nordic Entities) in connection with any financing transaction of Splitco or any of its Affiliates or as otherwise required for Splitco to comply with its reporting obligations following the Closing.
Cooperation with Respect to Financial Reporting
6.18 . If any Takeover Statute is or may become applicable to the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, CCE and the CCE Board shall grant all such approvals and take all such actions as are reasonably necessary or advisable so that such transactions may be consummated as promptly as practicable on the terms contemplated by this Agreement and otherwise act to eliminate or minimize the effects of such statute, regulation or provision in CCE's certificate of incorporation or by-laws on such transactions.
Takeover Statutes
6.19 .
Directors and Officers Indemnification and Insurance
(a) From and after the Closing, the Surviving Corporation shall, and TCCC shall cause the Surviving Corporation to, honor and fulfill in all material respects the obligations of CCE under any and all indemnification agreements between CCE or any of the North American Business Subsidiaries and any of their respective current or former directors and officers and any Person who becomes a director or officer of CCE or any of the North American Business Subsidiaries prior to the Effective Time (such agreements, the "" and such Persons, ""). In addition, during the period commencing at the Effective Time and ending on the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation shall (and TCCC shall cause the Surviving Corporation to) cause the charters and bylaws (and other similar organizational documents) of the Surviving Corporation to contain provisions with respect to indemnification, exculpation and the advancement of expenses that are at least as favorable as the indemnification, exculpation and advancement of expenses provisions set forth in the charters and bylaws (or other similar organizational documents) of CCE as of the date hereof, and during such six-year period such provisions shall not be repealed, amended or otherwise modified in any manner adverse to any Indemnified Person except as required by applicable Law.
Indemnity Agreements
Indemnified Persons
 
 
(b) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , during the period commencing at the Effective Time and ending on the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation shall (and TCCC shall cause the Surviving Corporation to) indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnified Person from and against any Losses in connection with any Action, to the extent such Action arises directly or indirectly out of or pertains directly or indirectly to (i) any action or omission or alleged action or omission in such Indemnified Person's capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent of CCE or any of its Subsidiaries or other Affiliates for such action or omission, or alleged action or omission, that occurred prior to or at the Effective Time; , , that if, at any time prior to the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Time, any Indemnified Person delivers to CCE a written notice asserting a claim for indemnification under this , then the claim asserted in such notice shall survive the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Time until such time as such claim is fully and finally resolved. In the event of any such claim, proceeding, investigation or inquiry, (i) the Surviving Corporation shall have the right to control the defense thereof after the Effective Time (it being understood that, by electing to control the defense thereof, the Surviving Corporation will be deemed to have waived any right to object to the Indemnified Person's entitlement to indemnification hereunder with respect thereto unless it is ultimately determined that such Indemnified Person is not entitled to indemnification under Law or the DGCL), and (ii) each Indemnified Person shall be entitled at his or her sole cost and expense to retain his or her own counsel, whether or not the Surviving Corporation shall elect to control the defense of any such claim, proceeding, investigation or inquiry. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this or elsewhere in this Agreement, neither the Surviving Corporation nor any of its Affiliates (including TCCC) shall settle or otherwise compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment or otherwise seek termination with respect to any claim, proceeding, investigation or inquiry for which indemnification may be sought by an Indemnified Person under this Agreement unless such settlement, compromise, consent or termination includes a full release of all Indemnified Persons from all liability arising out of such claim, proceeding, investigation or inquiry.
Section 6.19(a)
provided
however
Section 6.19(b)
Section 6.19(b)
(c) At Splitco's direction, TCCC shall cause the Surviving Corporation as of the Effective Time to obtain and fully pay the premium (in each case, at TCCC's expense) for the extension of (i) the directors' and officers' liability coverage of CCE's or any of the North American Business Subsidiaries' existing directors' and officers' insurance policies and (ii) CCE's or any of its Subsidiaries' existing fiduciary liability insurance policies, in each case, set forth on of the CCE Disclosure Letter (collectively, ""), in each case for a claims reporting or discovery period of at least six (6) years from and after the Effective Time with respect to any claim involving any Indemnified Person in respect of acts or omissions occurring prior to the Effective Time and with a carrier and upon terms that are reasonably acceptable to CCE and that are, with respect to coverage and amount, no less favorable than those of CCE's or any of its Subsidiaries' existing D&O Insurance; that the aggregate cost of such policy shall not exceed that amount set forth in of the CCE Disclosure Letter; , , that if the aggregate premiums of such D&O Insurance exceeds such amount, the Surviving Corporation promptly shall notify CCE of such excess and the Surviving Corporation shall be obligated to obtain D&O Insurance with the greatest coverage available,
Section 6.19
D&O Insurance
provided
Section 6.19
provided
further
 
with respect to matters occurring prior to the Effective Time, for a cost not exceeding such amount, and Splitco shall be entitled to contribute additional amounts to increase coverage. The Surviving Corporation shall (and TCCC shall cause the Surviving Corporation to) maintain such "tail" policy in full force and effect and continue to honor their respective obligations thereunder.
(d) If the Surviving Corporation (or TCCC) or any of its successors or assigns shall (i) consolidate with or merge into any other Person and shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation or entity of such consolidation or merger, or (ii) transfer all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, then, and in each such case, proper provisions shall be made so that the successors and assigns of the Surviving Corporation shall assume all of the obligations of the Surviving Corporation (or TCCC) set forth in this .
Section 6.19
(e) The obligations set forth in this shall not be terminated, amended or otherwise modified in any manner that adversely affects any Indemnified Person (or any other Person who is a beneficiary under the D&O Insurance or the "tail" policy referred to in (and their heirs and representatives)) without the prior written consent of such affected Indemnified Person or other Person who is a beneficiary under the D&O Insurance or the "tail" policy referred to in (and their heirs and representatives). Each of the Indemnified Persons or other Persons who are beneficiaries under the D&O Insurance or the "tail" policy referred to in (and their heirs and representatives) are intended to be third party beneficiaries of this , with full rights of enforcement as if a party thereto. The rights of the Indemnified Persons (and other Persons who are beneficiaries under the D&O Insurance or the "tail" policy referred to in (and their heirs and representatives)) under this shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for, any other rights that such Persons may have under the charters, bylaws or other equivalent organizational documents, any and all indemnification agreements of or entered into by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries, or applicable Law (whether at law or in equity).
Section 6.19
Section 6.19(c)
Section 6.19(c)
Section 6.19(c)
Section 6.19(e)
Section 6.19(c)
Section 6.19
(f) The obligations and liability of the Surviving Corporation, TCCC and their respective Subsidiaries under this shall be joint and several. Nothing in this is intended to (i) limit the rights of any TCCC Indemnified Party to indemnification from Splitco to the extent provided for in in respect of amounts paid pursuant to this or (ii) entitle any party to recover any amounts in connection with this to the extent that such party or any of its Affiliates has already recovered such amount pursuant to this Agreement.
Section 6.19
Section 6.19
Article IX
Section 6.19
Section 6.19
(g) Nothing in this Agreement is intended to, shall be construed to or shall release, waive or impair any rights to directors' and officers' insurance claims under any policy that is or has been in existence with respect to CCE or any of its Subsidiaries for any of their respective directors, officers or other employees, it being understood and agreed that the indemnification provided for in this is not prior to or in substitution for any such claims under such policies.
Section 6.19
6.20 .
Further Assurances
(a) At any time and from time to time upon and after the Effective Time, as and when required or deemed desirable by the Surviving Corporation or Splitco or their respective
 
successors or assigns, there shall be executed, acknowledged, certified, sealed, delivered, filed, and/or recorded, in the name and on behalf of any and each of CCE, TCCC, Splitco and Merger Sub, such deeds, contracts, consents, certificates, notices, and other documents and instruments, and there shall be done or taken or caused to be done or taken, in the name and on behalf of any and each of CCE, TCCC, Splitco and Merger Sub, such further and other things and actions as shall be appropriate, necessary, or convenient to acknowledge, vest, effect, perfect, conform of record, or otherwise confirm the Surviving Corporation's or Splitco's (or their respective successors' or assigns') right, title, and interest in kind to, and possession of, all the property, interests, assets, rights, privileges, immunities, powers, franchises, and authority of each of Splitco, CCE and Merger Sub held immediately prior to the Effective Time, and otherwise to carry out and effect the intent and purposes of this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions. The officers and directors of the Surviving Corporation or Splitco (or their respective successors or assigns), and each of them, upon and after the Effective Time, are and shall be fully authorized, in the name and on behalf of each of Splitco, CCE and Merger Sub, to do and take and cause to be done and taken any and all such things and actions, and to execute, acknowledge, certify, seal, deliver, file, and/or record any and all such deeds, contracts, consents, certificates, notices, and other documents and instruments.
(b) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each of the parties hereto shall, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates to, take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Laws to consummate the Transactions. From time to time after the date hereof, at the request of the other party hereto and at the expense of the party so requesting, CCE, TCCC, Splitco and Merger Sub shall (i) execute and deliver to such requesting party such documents, shall file with the appropriate Governmental Entities all documents necessary or appropriate and take such other action as such requesting party may reasonably request in order to consummate the Transactions and (ii) to the extent that any transfers or additional permits and other governmental authorizations are required to consummate the Transactions, Splitco and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates agrees to cooperate with CCE to effect such transfers and obtain such permits and other governmental authorizations prior to the Effective Time.
6.21 .
Gross Indebtedness; Treatment of Certain Indebtedness Contracts
(a) The parties agree that to the extent that Gross Indebtedness of CCE and its North American Business Subsidiaries is less than $8,880,000,000 immediately prior to the Effective Time, the parties will take such actions to increase the amount of Gross Indebtedness of CCE or TCCC will make an appropriate payment to CCE of an amount equal to such shortfall, as the parties agree in good faith in order to accomplish the transactions specified on Schedule A.
(b) To the extent that any Other CCE Businesses Entity is party to, or otherwise has any rights or obligations under, or is otherwise restricted by (including as a "Subsidiary" or "Restricted Subsidiary" within the meaning of the applicable credit facility, debt security facility, or other Contract), Contracts relating to Indebtedness of CCE or its Subsidiaries to which CCE or a North American Business Subsidiary is a party or has Liabilities and which are to be Liabilities of CCE or a North American Business Subsidiary from and after the Effective Time, Splitco and CCE will use commercially reasonable efforts to take such actions as are reasonably necessary to provide for the removal, effective no later than the Effective Time, of such
 
Other CCE Businesses Entities from any and all such Contracts or arrangements (including to cause any such Other CCE Businesses Entity to cease to be a "Subsidiary" or "Restricted Subsidiary" within the meaning of the applicable credit facility, debt security facility, or other Contract). To the extent that Splitco and CCE are unable to cause the removal of any such Other CCE Businesses Entity prior to the Effective Time, (i) any and all Liabilities arising from the actions of such Other CCE Businesses Entity under the applicable Contract after the Effective Time shall be deemed to be an Other CCE Businesses Liability, (ii) and any and all Liabilities arising from the actions of CCE under the applicable Contract after the Effective Time in respect of the applicable Contract shall be deemed to be a North American Business Liability for which TCCC shall indemnify the CCE Indemnified Parties pursuant to of this Agreement and (iii) no such Other CCE Businesses Entity shall borrow any amounts under, or otherwise take any action with respect to which CCE or any North American Business Subsidiary would have any Liability in connection with, the applicable Contract or arrangement.
Article IX
6.22 . At any time eighteen (18) months to thirty-six (36) months after the date of this Agreement, Splitco shall have the right to purchase, for fair value (as mutually agreed), all of TCCC's right, title and interest in the German Entity on such terms and conditions as are mutually acceptable to TCCC and Splitco.
German Entity
6.23 .
Adjusted Net Working Capital
(a) At least two (2) Business Days prior to the Closing Date (but not more than five (5) Business Days prior to the Closing Date), CCE shall deliver to TCCC a certificate of an executive officer of CCE (the "") setting forth CCE's good faith estimate of Adjusted Net Working Capital as of the Effective Time (the ""). If the Certified Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital is greater than Target Adjusted Net Working Capital, then TCCC shall pay or cause to be paid to Splitco at the Closing an amount equal to such difference. If the Certified Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital is less than Target Adjusted Net Working Capital, then Splitco shall pay or cause to be paid at the Closing an amount equal to such difference to TCCC.
Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital Certificate
Certified Closing Adjusted Net Working Cap
i
tal
(b) Except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties, as promptly as practicable, but in no event later than sixty (60) days after the Closing Date, TCCC shall in good faith prepare and deliver to Splitco (i) an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the North American Business Entities as of the Effective Time prepared in accordance with GAAP (except for the absence of notes) (the ""), and (ii) a statement (the "") setting forth TCCC's calculation of the Adjusted Net Working Capital as of the Effective Time, based on such Closing Balance Sheet calculated on a basis consistent with (the "").
Closing Balance Sheet
Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital Statement
Schedule C
Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital
(c) Without prejudice to any of TCCC's rights hereunder, following the Closing, in the event that TCCC believes in good faith that Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital is greater or lesser than Certified Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital, the following provisions will apply:
(i) TCCC and the North American Business Entities shall permit Splitco and their representatives to have reasonable access to the books, records and other
 
documents (including work papers) pertaining to or used in connection with preparation of the Closing Balance Sheet and TCCC's calculation of the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital and provide Splitco with copies thereof (as reasonably requested by Splitco). If Splitco disagrees with TCCC's calculation of the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital as set forth on the Closing Balance Sheet, Splitco shall, within thirty (30) days after Splitco's receipt of the Closing Balance Sheet, notify TCCC in writing of such disagreement by setting forth Splitco's calculation of the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital and describing in reasonable detail the basis for such disagreement (an ""). If no Objection Notice is delivered on or prior to the thirtieth (30th) day after Splitco's receipt of the Closing Balance Sheet, TCCC's calculation of the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital shall be deemed to be binding on the parties hereto. If an Objection Notice is timely delivered to TCCC, then TCCC and Splitco shall negotiate in good faith to resolve their disagreements with respect to the computation of the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital. In the event that TCCC and Splitco are unable to resolve all such disagreements within fifteen (15) days after TCCC's receipt of such Objection Notice, TCCC and Splitco shall submit such remaining disagreements to an independent, nationally recognized accounting firm mutually acceptable to TCCC and Splitco (the "") for resolution.
Objection N
o
tice
Auditor
(ii) TCCC and Splitco shall use their respective reasonable efforts to cause the Auditor to resolve all remaining disagreements with respect to the computation of the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital as soon as practicable, but in any event shall direct the Auditor to render a determination within forty-five (45) days after its retention. The Auditor shall consider only those items and amounts in TCCC's and Splitco's respective calculations of the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital that are identified as being items and amounts to which TCCC and Splitco have been unable to agree on. In resolving any disputed item, the Auditor shall act as an expert and not as an arbitrator and the Auditor may not assign a value to any item greater than the greatest value for such item claimed by either party or less than the smallest value for such item claimed by either party. The Auditor's determination of the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital shall not be limited to the materials submitted by TCCC and Splitco but may include any relevant accounting literature or guidance, and shall be based on the definition of "Adjusted Net Working Capital" included herein. The determination of the Auditor shall be conclusive and binding upon the parties hereto.
(iii) The costs and expenses of the Auditor in determining the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital shall be borne equally by TCCC, on the one hand, and Splitco, on the other hand.
(iv) Within five (5) Business Days after the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital is finally determined pursuant to this , Splitco shall pay to CCE or CCE shall pay to Splitco, as the case may be, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of Certified Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital over Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital, or Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital over Certified Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital, respectively, which payment shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account(s) designated by TCCC or Splitco, as applicable.
Section 6.23(c)
 
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, amounts paid or required to be paid pursuant to Paragraph 7 of , or of the Employee Matters Agreement shall not be taken into account in the determination of the Adjusted Net Working Capital of the North American Business or any payments required to be made pursuant to this .
Schedule A
Section 6.24,
Section 3.14(b)
Section 6.23
(e) All payments made pursuant to and any other payment, adjustment, reimbursement, or amount made or taken into account (collectively, payments) under this Agreement after the Effective Time shall be treated by all parties hereto (and all of their Affiliates) for all Tax purposes as non-taxable payments made immediately prior to the Closing to the maximum extent permitted by applicable Law. To the extent practicable, any such payments to CCE or any Subsidiary of CCE by Splitco or any Subsidiary of Splitco following the Closing will be segregated by CCE and transferred as promptly as practicable to creditors of CCE in payment of debt outstanding on the date hereof or incurred subsequent to the date hereof in the ordinary course of business, or to shareholders of CCE in respect of their CCE shares.
Section 6.23(c)
6.24 . On the Closing Date, TCCC shall pay to CCE an amount equal to $150,000,000, which represents the amount owed by TCCC for Tax benefits of the North American Business Subsidiaries. Such payment shall be made or taken into account in the manner set forth in Paragraph 7 of .
CCE Tax Benefits
Schedule A
6.25 . As promptly as practicable following the date hereof, TCCC shall, subject to consultation with, and obtaining the opinion of, the works council of parent company of the Nordic Entities, cause such parent to become a party to the Nordic SPA.
Certain Nordic SPA Matters
7.1 . The respective obligations of CCE, Splitco, TCCC and Merger Sub to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, waiver, of each of the following conditions:
Mutual Conditions
(a) . The Required CCE Vote shall have been obtained at the CCE Meeting (or any postponement or adjournment thereof) it being expressly understood that the parties cannot waive this condition.
Requisite Stockholder Approval
(b) . The Form S-4 shall have been declared effective under the Securities Act and shall not be the subject of any stop order or actual or threatened proceedings by the SEC seeking a stop order.
Form S-4
(c) . The shares of Splitco Common Stock issuable to the CCE stockholders as contemplated by this Agreement shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance.
NYSE Listing
 
 
(d) . (i) Any waiting period (and extensions thereof) applicable to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement under the HSR Act shall have expired or been terminated, and (ii) any other clearances, consents, approvals, orders and authorizations of Governmental Entities under any other Competition Law shall have been obtained.
Requisite Regulatory Approvals
(e) . No Law shall be in effect preventing consummation of the Separation Transactions or the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
No Legal Prohibition
(f) . There shall not be pending any Action by any Governmental Entity relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement that, if the relief requested were granted, would prevent the consummation of the Transactions or materially and adversely affect the Separation Transactions, the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, or TCCC, Merger Sub, CCE and the North American Business Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, on the one hand, or Splitco and the Other CCE Business Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, on the other hand.
No Governmental Actions
(g) . CCE and Splitco shall have received the Private Letter Ruling in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to TCCC and CCE and Splitco, and such Private Letter Ruling shall continue to be valid and in full force and effect.
Private Letter Ruling
7.2 . The obligations of CCE and Splitco to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction of each of the following conditions (any or all of which may be waived in writing in whole or in part by CCE):
Conditions to the Obligations of CCE and Splitco
(a) . The representations and warranties of TCCC and Merger Sub contained in this Agreement shall be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "in all material respects," "in any material respect," "material" or "materiality" set forth therein) as of the date of this Agreement and at and as of the Effective Time with the same force and effect as if made at and as of the Effective Time (other than those representations and warranties that address matters only as of a particular date or only with respect to a specific period of time, which need only be true and correct as of such date or with respect to such period), except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "in all material respects," "in any material respect," "material" or "materiality" set forth therein) would not, individually or in the aggregate, prevent or materially delay TCCC and Merger Sub from consummating the transactions contemplated hereby.
Representations and Warranties
(b) . Each of TCCC and Merger Sub shall have performed and complied, in all material respects, with all agreements and covenants required by this Agreement and the applicable Ancillary Agreements to be so performed or complied with by TCCC or Merger Sub at or prior to the Closing.
Performance
 
 
(c) . TCCC shall have delivered to CCE a certificate, dated as of the Closing Date, executed by an executive officer of TCCC, certifying the fulfillment of the conditions specified in and hereof.
Officer's Certificate
subsections 7.2(a)
7.2(b)
(d) . TCCC shall have executed and delivered each of the Transition Services Agreement, the Corporate Name Letter and the Bottler's Agreements, substantially in the forms agreed to by the parties pursuant to , and each of the Employee Matters Agreement and Tax Sharing Agreement executed as of the date hereof shall remain in full force and effect as of the Effective Time.
Ancillary Agreements
Section 3.1
(e) . CCE shall have received the CCE Tax Opinion in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to CCE, and such CCE Tax Opinion shall continue to be valid and in full force and effect.
CCE Tax Opinion
(f) . The Nordic Acquisition shall be consummated substantially concurrently with the Closing; provided, that this condition shall be deemed satisfied if (i) the conditions set forth in of the Nordic SPA to Splitco's obligations to consummate the Nordic Acquisition shall have been satisfied or waived (or shall be satisfied or waived simultaneously with the closing of the Nordic Acquisition) and (ii) TCCC shall have tendered the Shares (as defined in the Nordic SPA) for transfer in accordance with the terms of the Nordic SPA.
Nordic Transactions
Article VII
7.3 . The obligations of TCCC and Merger Sub to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to satisfaction of each of the following conditions (any or all of which may be waived in writing in whole or in part by TCCC):
Conditions to the Obligations of TCCC and Merger Sub
(a) . The representations and warranties of CCE and Splitco contained in this Agreement shall be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "in all material respects," "in any material respect," "material," "materiality" or "" set forth therein) as of the date of this Agreement and at and as of the Effective Time with the same force and effect as if made at and as of the Effective Time (other than those representations and warranties that address matters only as of a particular date or only with respect to a specific period of time, which need only be true and correct as of such date or with respect to such period), except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "in all material respects," "in any material respect," "material," "materiality" or "North American Business Material Adverse Effect" set forth therein) would not, individually or in the aggregate, (A) result in a North American Business Material Adverse Effect, or (B) prevent or materially delay CCE and Splitco from consummating the transactions contemplated hereby.
Representations and Warranties
North American Business Material Adverse Effect
(b) . CCE and Splitco shall have performed and complied, in all material respects, with all agreements and covenants required by this Agreement and the applicable Ancillary Agreements to be so performed or complied with by CCE or Splitco at or prior to the Closing.
Performance
 
 
(c) . Since the date of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred a North American Business Material Adverse Effect that is continuing.
No North American Business Material Adverse Effect
(d) . CCE shall have delivered to TCCC a certificate, dated as of the Closing Date, executed by an executive officer of CCE, certifying the fulfillment of the conditions specified in , and hereof.
Officer's Certificate
subsections 7.3(a)
7.3(b)
7.3(c)
(e) . CCE (or one of its appropriately designated Subsidiaries or Affiliates) and Splitco shall have executed and delivered each of the Transition Services Agreement, the Corporate Name Letter and the Bottler's Agreement, substantially in the forms agreed to by the parties pursuant to , and each of the Employee Matters Agreement and Tax Sharing Agreement executed as of the date hereof shall remain in full force and effect as of the Effective Time.
Ancillary Agreements
Section 3.1
(f) . TCCC shall have received the TCCC Tax Opinion in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to TCCC, and such TCCC Tax Opinion shall continue to be valid and in full force and effect.
TCCC Tax Opinion
(g) . The Gross Indebtedness of CCE and the North American Business Subsidiaries as of the Effective Time (after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by and ) shall not be in excess of $8,880,000,000, and Splitco shall have delivered to TCCC a certificate, dated as of the Closing Date, executed by an executive officer of Splitco, certifying the fulfillment of such condition.
Gross Indebtedness
Section 6.21
Schedule A
8.1 . This Agreement may be terminated and the Transactions may be abandoned at any time prior to the Effective Time, whether before or after receipt of the Required CCE Vote:
Termination
(a) by mutual written agreement of CCE and TCCC;
(b) by TCCC or CCE at any time after the nine (9)-month anniversary of the date hereof; , that if, as of such date, (i) the approvals required pursuant to shall not have been obtained, (ii) there is a pending Action by any Governmental Entity seeking to prevent the consummation of the Merger, (iii) the Private Letter Ruling shall not have been obtained, or (iv) the conditions to the consummation of the Nordic Acquisition set forth in or of the Nordic SPA have not been satisfied, then either TCCC or CCE may, in its sole discretion, extend such date for an additional six (6) months (such date, as extended, the ""), upon five (5) Business Days' prior written notice to the other party, if the Closing shall not have occurred for any reason on or prior to the Termination Date, , , that if, as of the Termination Date, the conditions set forth in hereof have been satisfied or waived (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, but subject to the satisfaction or waiver of those conditions) such that the Closing is to occur in accordance with on the first day of the Accounting Cycle beginning
provided
Section 7.1(d)
Sections 7.1(a)
7.1(c)
Termination Date
provided
however
Article VII
Section 2.2
 
after the Termination Date, then the Termination Date shall be extended until such date; , , that the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this shall not be available to any party whose failure to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement required to be performed by it at or prior to the Closing has been the cause of, or resulted in, the failure of the Closing to occur;
provided
further
Section 8.1(b)
(c) by CCE, if TCCC or Merger Sub shall have breached or failed to perform any of its representations, warranties, covenants or agreements set forth in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (i) would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in or of this Agreement and (ii) is incapable of being cured (or is not cured) by TCCC or Merger Sub by the Termination Date, , , that the failure of any such condition to be capable of satisfaction is not the result of a material breach of this Agreement by CCE or Splitco;
Sections 7.2(a)
7.2(b)
provided
however
(d) by TCCC, if CCE or Splitco shall have breached or failed to perform any of its representations, warranties, covenants or agreements set forth in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (i) would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in , or of this Agreement, and (ii) is incapable of being cured (or is not cured) by CCE or Splitco by the Termination Date, , , that the failure of any such condition to be capable of satisfaction is not the result of a material breach of this Agreement by TCCC or Merger Sub;
Sections 7.3(a)
7.3(b)
7.3(c)
provided
however
(e) by TCCC or CCE, if any court of competent jurisdiction or any Governmental Entity shall have issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any other action permanently enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and such order, decree, ruling or other action shall have become final and non-appealable;
(f) by TCCC, if there occurs (i) a Change in CCE Recommendation (including by amending or supplementing the Proxy Statement/Prospectus to effect a Change in CCE Recommendation), or (ii) a material breach by CCE of its obligations under and ; or
Section 6.4(e)(ii)
6.5(a)
(g) by either TCCC or CCE, if the Required CCE Vote shall not have been obtained upon a vote taken thereon at the duly convened CCE Stockholders Meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof at which the applicable vote was taken.
8.2 . In the event of the termination of this Agreement and the abandonment of the Transactions pursuant to hereof, written notice thereof shall be given by the party so terminating to the other party to this Agreement, and this Agreement shall terminate and the Transactions shall be abandoned without further action by CCE or TCCC; , however, that:
Procedure and Effect of Termination
Section 8.1
provided
(a) If this Agreement is terminated and the Transactions are abandoned as described in this , this Agreement shall become null and void and of no further force or effect, except for the obligations provided for in , this and hereof, the confidentiality provision contained in hereof and the Confidentiality Agreement referred to in such Section, each of which shall survive any such termination of this Agreement without limitation.
Section 8.2
Section 6.13
Section 8.2
Article X
Section 6.8(b)
 
 
(b) If (i) TCCC or CCE terminates this Agreement due to the failure to satisfy any of the conditions set forth in ; (ii) all other conditions set forth in and in have been satisfied or waived (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, but subject to the satisfaction or waiver of those conditions); and (iii) neither CCE nor Splitco have breached in any material respect any of their covenants set forth in this Agreement, then TCCC shall, as promptly as reasonably practicable (and in any event within three (3) Business Days following such termination), pay to CCE, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, an amount equal to twice the amount of the reasonable documented out-of-pocket expenses actually incurred and paid by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with negotiation of this Agreement, the performance by CCE or Splitco of their obligations hereunder and the consummation of the Transactions, not to exceed $100,000,000 (the "").
Section 7.1(d)
Section 7.1
Section 7.3
CCE Expense Reimbursement
(c) If TCCC terminates this Agreement pursuant to at a time when there is a Change in CCE Recommendation, then CCE shall, as promptly as reasonably practicable (and in any event within three (3) Business Days following such termination), pay to TCCC, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, an amount equal to $200,000,000 (the "").
Section 8.1(f)
Termination Fee
(d) In the event that (A) following the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the termination of this Agreement pursuant to or , an Acquisition Proposal shall have been publicly announced, (B) this Agreement is validly terminated pursuant to or , (C) at the time of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to or , neither TCCC nor Merger Sub has breached any of its material obligations under or in connection with this Agreement in any material respect, and (D) within 365 calendar days following the termination of this Agreement pursuant to or , an Acquisition Proposal is consummated, then CCE shall pay to TCCC the Termination Fee, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated in writing by TCCC, within two Business Days after the consummation of the transaction contemplated by such Acquisition Proposal. For purposes of this provision, each reference to "15%" in the definition of Acquisition Proposal shall be deemed to be a reference to "50%."
Section 8.1(b)
Section 8.1(g)
Section 8.1(b)
Section 8.1(g)
Section 8.1(b)
Section 8.1(g)
Section 8.1(b)
Section 8.1(g)
(e) Each of TCCC and CCE acknowledges that the agreements contained in , and are an integral part of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and that, without these agreements, CCE, TCCC and Merger Sub would not enter into this Agreement. Accordingly, if CCE fails promptly to pay any amount due to TCCC, or TCCC fails promptly to pay any amount due to CCE, pursuant to , and , then such non-paying party shall also pay any costs and expenses incurred by CCE or TCCC or Merger Sub, as applicable, in connection with a legal action to enforce this Agreement that results in a final judgment against CCE or TCCC, as applicable, for such amount.
Section 8.2(b)
Section 8.2(c)
Section 8.2(d)
Section 8.2(b)
Section 8.2(c)
Section 8.2(d)
 
 
(f) In the event that TCCC shall receive the Termination Fee, the receipt of such fee shall be deemed to be liquidated damages for any and all losses or damages suffered or incurred by TCCC, Merger Sub, any of their respective Affiliates or any other Person in connection with this Agreement (and the termination hereof), the transactions contemplated hereby (and the abandonment thereof) or any matter forming the basis for such termination, and none of TCCC, Merger Sub, any of their respective Affiliates or any other Person shall be entitled to bring or maintain any other claim, action or proceeding against CCE or any of its Affiliates arising out of this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated hereby or any matters forming the basis for such termination.
(g) For the avoidance of doubt, except as expressly provided in any termination of this Agreement shall not be deemed to release and shall not relieve any party hereto from any liability for any fraud occurring on or prior to such termination.
Section 8.2(f)
9.1 . The representations and warranties in this Agreement and the certificates delivered pursuant to and and the Employee Matters Agreement shall survive the Closing until the date that is one (1) year from the Closing Date; , , that (a) the representations and warranties in (Organization and Qualification); (Authority), (Capitalization; Jurisdictions) (other than clause (g) thereof); (No Violation; Consents and Approvals) (but only with respect to clause (iv) thereof); (Compliance with Laws; Permits) (but only with respect to The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or any similar Law); (Organization; Authority) and (Ownership of CCE Common Stock) hereof shall survive indefinitely (the representations and warranties set forth in this clause (a), the ""), (b) the representations and warranties in (Taxes) and (Actions Regarding Tax Treatment) and the covenant in (relating to the conduct of the North American Business) shall survive the Closing for a period equal to ninety (90) days following the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations, taking into account any extensions thereof, and (c) the representations and warranties in (Title to Personal Property), (Major Suppliers and Customers other than TCCC), (Intercompany Agreements), (Related Party Transactions), (Takeover Statutes; Other Restrictions), (Brokers) and (Brokers) shall not survive the Closing. The covenants and agreements of each party shall survive the Closing for the period specified therein, and if not specified, indefinitely; that the covenants contained in Sections (other than ), and (other than ) shall survive one year from the Closing Date; , , that the provisions of (Adjusted Net Working Capital), shall apply to claims arising with respect to the subject matter of that Section, rather than the provisions of this , except to the extent set forth in and . If any party makes a claim with respect to any specific representation, warranty, covenant or agreement within the time period described in this , and such claim is not fully and finally resolved prior to the expiration of such time period, such representation, warranty, covenant or agreement shall survive solely with respect to such claim until such claim is finally and fully resolved.
Survival
Section 7.2(c)
7.3(d)
provided
however
Sections 4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4(a)
4.19
5.1
5.3
Fund
a
mental Re
p
resentations
Sections 4.15
5.10
Section 6.1(o)
Sections 4.9
4.18
4.22
4.23
4.26
4.29
5.7
provided
6.1
6.1(o)
6.2
6.10
6.10(c); (d) and (e)
provided
further
Section 6.23
Article IX
Sections 9.1
9.8
Section 9.1
 
 
9.2 . From and after the Closing, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this , Splitco shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless TCCC and its Affiliates (including CCE and the North American Business Subsidiaries) and their respective officers, directors, and employees (the "") from and against all damages, judgments, awards, liabilities, losses, fines, obligations, amounts paid in settlement, claims of any kind or nature and costs, fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, auditors, consultants and other agents), excluding except as specifically set forth in lost profits, lost revenues, special, consequential, indirect and punitive damages (other than lost profits, lost revenues, special, consequential, indirect and punitive damages actually paid in connection with any third party claim) (collectively, ""), asserted against, resulting from, imposed upon or suffered or incurred by TCCC Indemnified Parties by reason of or arising from:
Splitco's Agreement to Indemnify
Article IX
TCCC
Indemnified Parties
Section 10.13
Losses
(a) any failure of any representation or warranty of CCE or Splitco set forth in this Agreement or the Employee Matters Agreement or the certificates delivered pursuant to that survives after the Effective Time pursuant to to be true and correct in all respects as of the date hereof and as of the Effective Time (except to the extent expressly made as of an earlier date, in which case the failure of such representations and warranties to be so true and correct shall be measured as of such earlier date) as such representation or warranty would read if all qualifications to materiality, including each reference to the term North American Business Material Adverse Effect, were deleted therefrom;
Section 7.3(d)
Section 9.1
(b) the breach of any covenant or agreement of Splitco or, prior to the Effective Time, CCE, contained in this Agreement or the Employee Matters Agreement;
(c) any Other CCE Businesses Liabilities (for the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall Splitco have any obligation under this to the extent TCCC is obligated to indemnify any Splitco Indemnified Party);
Section 9.2(c)
(d) any appraisal claim made by a former stockholder of CCE in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (including 50% of any fees and expenses incurred in connection with the appraisal proceedings); provided that, with respect to amounts actually paid to former stockholders in connection with any such appraisal proceeding, Splitco shall only be liable pursuant to this for amounts actually paid in respect of an appraised value per share up to and including $19.53 per share (the "") (it being understood that if the appraised value per share actually paid exceeds the Appraisal Threshold, Splitco shall be liable for the allocable portion of the total payment up to and including the Appraisal Threshold); and
Section 9.2(d)
Appraisal Threshold
(e) any Transaction Expenses payable by CCE or Splitco in accordance with .
Section 10.1
9.3 . Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary (except for Tax matters which shall be governed by the Tax Sharing Agreement), the obligation of Splitco to indemnify TCCC Indemnified Parties pursuant to (A)  against any Losses sustained by reason of any claim with respect to the breach of a representation or warranty (other than Losses (i) arising out of, relating to or resulting from
Splitco's Limitation of Liability
Section 9.2(a)
 
breaches or inaccuracies of any Fundamental Representation or (ii) arising out of or resulting from fraud or willful material breach by Splitco or, prior to the Effective Time, CCE (such Losses in (i) and (ii), collectively, the "")) or (B)  against any Losses sustained by reason of any claim with respect to the breach by CCE or Splitco of a covenant, shall be limited to claims as to which a TCCC Indemnified Party has given Splitco written notice, setting forth therein in reasonable detail the basis for such claim, on or prior to the termination of such representation or warranty or covenant pursuant to hereof; , , that the provisions for indemnification contained in (other than for Losses constituting Splitco Uncapped Claims) shall be effective only after the aggregate amount of all such claims which are so indemnifiable exceeds an amount equal to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) (the ""), and only to the extent of such excess; that Splitco shall not be liable to any TCCC Indemnified Party for any particular claim under (other than for Losses constituting Splitco Uncapped Claims), unless the amount of such claim exceeds one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) (the "") and is in excess of any reserves reflected on the Audited CCE 2009 Financial Statements with respect to such Losses and all such Losses in respect of any claim or series of related claims which total less than the De Minimis Amount or which have not exceeded any relevant reserve shall be excluded in their entirety from calculations with respect to the Basket or Cap, and the TCCC Indemnified Parties shall have no recourse for such Losses. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, in no event shall the aggregate amount of all indemnification payments for which Splitco is liable pursuant to (other than for Losses constituting Splitco Uncapped Claims), exceed an amount equal to two hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000) (the "").
Splitco Uncapped Claims
Section 9.2(b)
Section 9.1
provided
however
Section 9.2(a)
Basket
provided
further
Section 9.2(a)
De Minimis Amount
Section 9.2(a)
Cap
9.4 . From and after the Closing, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this , TCCC shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Splitco, its Affiliates (excluding CCE and the North American Business Subsidiaries) and their respective officers, directors, and employees (the "") from and against all Losses asserted against, resulting from, imposed upon or suffered or incurred by CCE Indemnified Parties by reason of or arising from:
TCCC's Agreement to Indemnify
Article IX
CCE
Indemnified Parties
(a) any failure of any representation or warranty of TCCC set forth in this Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement or the certificates delivered pursuant to that survives after the Effective Time pursuant to to be true and correct in all respects as of the date hereof and as of the Effective Time (except to the extent expressly made as of an earlier date, in which case the failure of such representations and warranties to be so true and correct shall be measured as of such earlier date) as such representation or warranty would read if all qualifications to materiality were deleted therefrom;
Section 7.2(c)
Section 9.1
(b) the breach of any covenant or agreement of TCCC or Merger Sub contained in this Agreement or the Employee Matters Agreement;
(c) any North American Business Liability (for the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall TCCC have any obligation under this to the extent Splitco is obligated to indemnify any TCCC Indemnified Party);
Section 9.4(c)
 
 
(d) with respect to amounts actually paid to former stockholders of CCE in connection with an appraisal proceeding in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, TCCC shall only be liable pursuant to this for amounts actually paid in respect of an appraised value per share in excess of the Appraisal Threshold (it being understood that if the appraised value per share actually paid exceeds the Appraisal Threshold, TCCC shall only be liable for the allocable portion of the total payment in excess of the Appraisal Threshold) and 50% of any fees and expenses incurred in connection with the appraisal proceedings); and
Section 9.4(d)
(e) any Transaction Expenses payable by TCCC in accordance with .
Section 10.1
9.5 . Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary (except for Tax matters which shall be governed by the Tax Sharing Agreement), the obligation of TCCC to indemnify CCE Indemnified Parties pursuant to (A)  hereof, against any Losses sustained by reason of any claim with respect to the breach of a representation or warranty (other than Losses (i) arising out of, relating to or resulting from breaches or inaccuracies of any Fundamental Representation or (ii) arising out of or resulting from fraud or willful material breach by TCCC (such Losses in (i) and (ii), collectively, the "")) or (B)  against any Losses sustained by reason of any claim with respect to the breach by TCCC of a covenant shall be limited to claims as to which a CCE Indemnified Party has given TCCC written notice, setting forth therein in reasonable detail the basis for such claim, on or prior to the termination of such representation, warranty or covenant pursuant to hereof; , , that the provisions for indemnification contained in (other than for Losses constituting TCCC Uncapped Claims) shall be effective only after the aggregate amount of all such claims which are so indemnifiable exceed the Basket, and only to the extent of such excess; that TCCC shall not be liable to any CCE Indemnified Party for any particular claim under (other than for Losses constituting TCCC Uncapped Claims) unless the amount of such claim exceeds the De Minimis Amount and all such Losses in respect of any claim or series of related claims which total less than the De Minimis Amount shall be excluded in their entirety from calculations with respect to the Basket or Cap, and the CCE Indemnified Parties shall have no recourse for such Losses. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, in no event shall the aggregate amount of all indemnification payments for which TCCC is liable pursuant to (other than for Losses constituting TCCC Uncapped Claims) exceed an amount equal to the Cap.
TCCC's Limitation of Liability
Section 9.4(a)
TCCC
U
n
capped Claims
Section 9.4(b)
Section 9.1
provided
however
Section 9.4(a)
provided
further
Section 9.4(a)
Section 9.4(a)
9.6 . Except for Tax matters which shall be governed solely by the Tax Sharing Agreement, the obligations and liabilities of Splitco and TCCC with respect to any claims made by the TCCC Indemnified Parties and the CCE Indemnified Parties, respectively, which arise or result from claims for Losses made by third parties (""), shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Third-Party Claims
Third-Party Claim
(a) The indemnified party shall give the indemnifying party prompt written notice of any such Third-Party Claim; , , that (i) failure to give such notification shall not affect the indemnification provided hereunder except to the extent the indemnifying party shall have been materially prejudiced as a result of such failure; and (ii) the indemnifying party shall have the right, after it acknowledges in writing to the indemnified party its obligation
provided
however
 
to indemnify the indemnified party hereunder, to undertake the defense thereof by counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party at the indemnifying party's sole expense; provided, that if the indemnifying party assumes such defense, the indemnified party shall have the right to participate in the defense thereof and to employ counsel, at its own expense, separate from the counsel employed by the indemnifying party, it being understood that the indemnifying party shall control such defense;
(b) Within thirty (30) Business Days following the receipt of notice of a Third-Party Claim, if the indemnifying party has not assumed the defense of such Third-Party Claim or has declined to assume the defense of such Third-Party Claim in writing, the indemnified party shall (upon further written notice to the indemnifying party) have the right to undertake the defense, compromise or settlement of such Third-Party Claim on behalf of and for the account and risk of the indemnifying party subject to the right of the indemnifying party to assume the defense of such Third-Party Claim at any time prior to settlement, compromise or final determination thereof (subject to ); and
Section 9.6(a)(ii)
(c) Notwithstanding any provision in this to the contrary, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party (which consent shall not be unreasonably, withheld, conditioned or delayed), the indemnifying party shall not admit any liability with respect to, or settle, compromise or discharge, any Third-Party Claim or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect thereto, except in the case of any settlement that (i) includes as an unconditional term thereof the delivery by the claimant or plaintiff to the indemnified party of a written unconditional release from all liability in respect of such Third-Party Claim and (ii) provides solely for monetary relief and does not otherwise involve or purport to bind or limit the indemnified party. In addition, if the indemnifying party shall have assumed the defense of the Third-Party Claim, the indemnified party shall not admit any liability with respect to, or settle, compromise or discharge, any Third-Party Claim or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect thereto, without the prior written consent of the indemnifying party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), and the indemnifying party will not be subject to any liability for any such admission, settlement, compromise, discharge or consent to judgment made by an indemnified party without such prior written consent of the indemnifying party.
Article IX
9.7 . In the event any indemnified party should have a claim against any indemnifying party under or hereof that does not involve a Third-Party Claim being asserted against or sought to be collected from such indemnified party, the indemnified party shall, as promptly as practicable after discovery of such claim, deliver written notice of such claim to the indemnifying party. The failure by any indemnified party to so notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve the indemnifying party from any liability which it may have to such indemnified party under or hereof, except to the extent that the indemnifying party demonstrates that it has been materially prejudiced by such failure. If the indemnifying party does not notify the indemnified party within thirty (30) Business Days following its receipt of such notice that the indemnifying party disputes its liability to the indemnified party under or hereof, such claim specified by the indemnified party in such notice shall be conclusively deemed a liability of the indemnifying party under or hereof, and the indemnifying party shall pay the amount of such liability to the indemnified party on demand or, in the case of any notice in which the amount of the claim (or any portion thereof) is estimated,
Other Claims
Section 9.2
9.4
Section 9.2
9.4
Section 9.2
9.4
Section 9.2
9.4
 
on such later date when the amount of such claim (or such portion thereof) becomes finally determined. If the indemnifying party has timely disputed its liability with respect to such claim, as provided above, the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall proceed in good faith to negotiate a resolution of such dispute and, if not resolved through negotiations, such dispute shall be resolved by litigation pursuant to hereof.
Section 10.9
9.8 .
Sole Remedy; Other Limitations; etc
(a) TCCC and Splitco acknowledge and agree that, if the Closing occurs, their sole and exclusive monetary remedy (other than for fraud or willful material breach or misrepresentation) following the Closing with respect to any and all claims (whether Third-Party Claims or otherwise) relating to the subject matter of this Agreement shall be pursuant to the provisions set forth in the Ancillary Agreements, and this ; , , that nothing contained herein shall prevent an indemnified party from pursuing non-monetary remedies as may be available to such party under applicable Law in the event of a party's failure to comply with its obligation hereunder.
Section 6.23
Article IX
provided
however
(b) Any liability for indemnification hereunder shall be determined without duplication of recovery by reason of the state of facts giving rise to such liability constituting a breach of more than one representation, warranty, covenant or agreement. Nothing in this is intended to entitle any party to recover any amounts in connection with this to the extent that such party or any of its Affiliates has already recovered such amount pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, including as a result of any payments in respect of Adjusted Net Working Capital pursuant to .
Article IX
Article IX
Section 6.23
(c) TCCC and Splitco agree that any payment made among the parties pursuant to or this shall be treated, to the extent permitted by Law, for all Tax purposes as a non-taxable payment made immediately prior to the Closing. Any indemnification payments under this Agreement for indemnifiable Losses shall be paid net of (or, in the case of a Tax detriment, increased by) (i) any insurance proceeds actually recovered by the indemnified party with respect to such Losses, an amount equal to (x) the amount of the net after tax cost of insurance premiums paid by the indemnified party in the same policy year as the claim for such Losses for the insurance policy under which such insurance proceeds are recovered multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the amount of such insurance proceeds actually recovered and the denominator of which shall be the total coverage amount of the insurance policy under which such insurance proceeds are recovered; (ii) any indemnity, contribution or other similar payment received by the indemnified party or its Affiliates from any third party with respect to such Losses, the amount of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses actually incurred and necessary to recover such third party payment; and (iii) any Tax benefit or Tax detriment to the indemnified party or its Affiliates as set forth in . In the event that an applicable insurance or other recovery is received by any indemnified party with respect to any indemnification payment for which any such Person has been indemnified under this Agreement, then a refund equal to the aggregate amount of such applicable recovery with respect to such indemnification payment shall be made promptly to the indemnifying party.
Section 6.23
Article IX
minus
minus
Section 9.10
(d) With respect to Losses arising out of or resulting from any breach of , including any such Losses arising out of or resulting from the Cleanup of any Release
Section 4.21
 
or threatened Release of Hazardous Materials on, from or adjacent to any Real Property, such Losses shall only include amounts to the extent required by a Governmental Entity or required by an applicable Environmental Law and incurred in the most cost-effective and commercially reasonable manner for achieving compliance with applicable Environmental Laws or directives of a Governmental Entity, applicable to the use of the property involved at the Effective Time, including where authorized the use of engineering or institutional controls such as deed restrictions and other land use restrictions. Splitco shall have no obligation to provide indemnification for any such Losses to the extent they arise from or as a consequence of any (i) changes in Environmental Law coming into effect subsequent to the Effective Time, (ii) any voluntary disclosure subsequent to the Effective Time by a TCCC Indemnified Party, or (iii) sampling, testing or analysis of any environmental media by or on behalf of any TCCC Indemnified Party on or after the Effective Time which is not required by an Environmental Law or by a Governmental Entity.
(e) After the Effective Time, each indemnified party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any Losses upon becoming aware of any event that would reasonably be expected to give rise thereto, including by seeking to collect or recover any available third party insurance proceeds and any indemnity, contribution or other similar payment available to the indemnified party or its Affiliates from any third party with respect to any such Losses (it being understood that the obligation to use commercially reasonable efforts to collect or recover any third party insurance proceeds or payments available from third parties shall not require the indemnified party to commence any litigation proceedings against any such third party); that the indemnified party's inability to collect or recover any such insurance proceeds or payments from third parties shall not limit or delay the indemnifying party's obligations hereunder. Any Losses incurred in contravention of this subsection shall not be recoverable hereunder by the relevant indemnified party.
provided
(f) Any insurer that would otherwise be obligated to pay any claim shall not be relieved of the responsibility with respect thereto or, solely by virtue of the indemnification and contributions provisions hereof, have any subrogation rights with respect thereto.
9.9 . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Tax Sharing Agreement constitutes the complete and exclusive agreement of the parties with respect to indemnification for Tax matters. Any conflict between the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement and any provision of this Agreement, or any provision of any other agreement, shall be resolved in favor of the Tax Sharing Agreement, unless such other provision expressly provides that it shall be given priority over the Tax Sharing Agreement.
Exclusivity of Tax Sharing Agreement
9.10 . All indemnification payments under this Agreement shall be reduced to take account of the present value of any net Tax benefit (including, but not limited to, any current or future deductions, any reduction of income or gain upon a sale, disposition, conveyance, license or other similar transaction as a result of increased Tax basis, any Tax refunds received, any use of a credit of Taxes and any increase in the amount of losses, reliefs, allowances or other similar Tax attributes) and shall be increased to take account of the present value of any net Tax detriment realized by the indemnified party or its Affiliates in connection with or otherwise arising (directly or indirectly) from an indemnified Loss, including, without limitation, any Tax detriment resulting from an indemnification payment for such Loss. Upon the written request of the indemnifying party, the indemnified party shall provide the amount of
Offset against Tax Benefits
 
the net Tax benefit and/or Tax detriment realized by the indemnified party in connection with or otherwise arising (directly or indirectly) from an indemnified Loss together with reasonable detail with respect to such calculation. In computing the amount of any such net Tax benefit and/or Tax detriment, the indemnified party shall be deemed to recognize all other items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit (other than carryback items) before recognizing any item arising from the receipt of any indemnification payment hereunder or from a Tax Controversy. The indemnified party shall cooperate fully with all commercially reasonable requests from the indemnifying party in connection with determining the present value of such net Tax benefit and/or Tax detriment.
10.1 . To the extent addressed in Schedule D, the Transaction Expenses shall be paid by the parties hereto as specified on Schedule D; provided, however, that Schedule D and this shall not apply to Tax matters, which shall be governed by the Tax Sharing Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in Schedule D or the Tax Sharing Agreement, whether or not the Transactions are consummated, TCCC shall pay (or cause to be paid) all fees and expenses incurred by it or on its behalf or by or on behalf of any of its Subsidiaries, and CCE shall pay (or cause to be paid) all fees and expenses incurred by it or on its behalf or by or on behalf of any of its Subsidiaries; provided that from and after the Effective Time such obligations of CCE shall become an obligation of Splitco.
Fees and Expenses
Section 10.1
10.2 . Any payment required to be paid pursuant to this Agreement that is not paid by the 30th day after such payment is due shall accrue interest from and including such 30th day after the due date to and including the date of payment at the rate of one-month LIBOR plus 25 basis points per annum.
Interest
10.3 . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder required to be delivered in writing shall be deemed given if delivered personally, telecopied (which is confirmed) or sent by overnight courier (providing proof of delivery) to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):
Notices
If to Splitco or CCE (before the Effective Time), to:
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.
2500 Windy Ridge Parkway
Atlanta, GA 30339
Fax: (770) 989-3784
Attention: John Parker
 
 
with a copy, which shall not constitute notice, to:
Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP
80 Pine Street
New York, NY 10005
Fax: (212) 269-5420
Attention: Gerry Meistrell
                 Jonathan Mark
                 Helene Banks
If to TCCC, CCE (after the Effective Time) or Merger Sub, to:
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, GA 30313
Fax: (404) 676-8621
Attention: Chief Financial Officer
with a copy, which shall not constitute notice, to:
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, GA 30313
Fax: (404) 515-2540
Attention: General Counsel
and with a copy, which shall not constitute notice, to:
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
Four Times Square
New York, NY 10036
Fax: (212) 735-2000
Attention: Martha E. McGarry
                 Sean C. Doyle
10.4 .
Entire Agreement; Modification
(a) The agreement of the parties, which consists of this Agreement, the CCE Disclosure Letter, the TCCC Disclosure Letter, the Ancillary Agreements, to the extent entered into, and the exhibits schedules and other documents referred to herein which form a part hereof (including, the Confidentiality Agreement referred to in hereof), sets forth the entire agreement and understanding between the parties and supersedes any prior agreement or understanding, written or oral, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.
Section 6.8
(b) Subject to compliance with applicable Laws, this Agreement may be modified and/or amended with respect to any provision contained herein at any time by written action of CCE, Splitco and TCCC at any time before or after receipt of the Required CCE Vote; , , that after the receipt of the Required CCE Vote there may not be, without
provided
however
 
further approval of the stockholders of CCE, any amendment of this Agreement that changes the amount or the form of the consideration to be delivered to the holders of CCE Common Stock hereunder or which, by applicable Law, requires the further approval of such stockholders.
10.5 . Any term or condition hereof may be waived at any time by the party hereto that is entitled to the benefits thereof by a written instrument duly executed on behalf of such party. The failure of a party to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement shall not be construed to be a waiver of such provision nor shall it in any way affect the validity of this Agreement or the right of such party thereafter to enforce each and every such provision. No waiver of any breach of this Agreement shall be held to constitute a waiver of any other or subsequent breach.
Waiver
10.6 . Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be transferred, assigned or delegated by any of the parties hereto, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of the other parties, and any attempt to make any such transfer, assignment or delegation without such consent shall be null and void. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the successors, legal representatives and permitted assigns of the parties hereto. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and in the event that any one or more provisions are deemed illegal or unenforceable the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect unless the deletion of such provision shall cause this Agreement to become materially adverse to any party, in which event the parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to arrive at an accommodation that best preserves for the parties the benefits and obligations of the offending provision.
Assignment; Binding Effect; Severability
10.7 . The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that the failure of any party to perform its agreements and covenants hereunder, including its failure to take all actions as are necessary on its part to the consummation of the Transactions, will cause irreparable injury to the other parties, for which damages, even if available, will not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, each party hereby consents to the issuance of injunctive relief by any court of competent jurisdiction as provided in to compel performance of such party's obligations and to the granting by any such court of the remedy of specific performance of its obligations hereunder without proof of actual damages and without any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond. Such remedy shall not be deemed to be the exclusive remedy for a party's breach of its obligations but shall be in addition to all other remedies available at law or equity.
Specific Performance
Section 10.9
10.8 . This agreement shall be governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance with the Laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to the conflicts of law provision or rule (whether of the State of Delaware or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the application of the Laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
10.9 . The parties irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of (a) the Delaware Court of Chancery, and (b) any state appellate court therefrom within the State of Delaware (or, only if the Delaware Court of Chancery declines to accept jurisdiction over a particular matter, any state or federal court within the State of Delaware), for the purposes of any Action arising out of this Agreement or the Transactions (and each agrees that no such Action relating to this Agreement or the Transactions shall be brought by it except in such
Consent to Jurisdiction
 
courts). The parties irrevocably and unconditionally waive (and agree not to plead or claim) any objection to the laying of venue of any Action arising out of this Agreement or the Transactions in (i) the Delaware Court of Chancery, or (ii) any state appellate court therefrom within the State of Delaware (or, only if the Delaware Court of Chancery declines to accept jurisdiction over a particular matter, any state or federal court within the State of Delaware) or that any such Action brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Each of the parties hereto also agrees that any final and non-appealable judgment against a party hereto in connection with any Action shall be conclusive and binding on such party and that such award or judgment may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction, either within or outside of the United States. A certified or exemplified copy of such award or judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the fact and amount of such award or judgment.
10.10 . Each party hereby waives, and agrees to cause each of its Affiliates to waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any Action directly or indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with this Agreement or the Transactions. Each party (a) certifies that no Representative of the other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other party would not, in the event of an Action, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (b) acknowledges that it and the other party hereto have been induced to enter into this agreement by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications in this .
Waiver of Jury Trial
Section 10.10
10.11 . No provision of this Agreement is intended to confer upon any Person other than the parties hereto any rights or remedies hereunder (except as set forth in the Tax Sharing Agreement, and in with respect to TCCC Indemnified Parties and CCE Indemnified Parties).
Third Party Beneficiaries
Section 6.19
Article IX
10.12 . This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts (including by facsimile), each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
10.13 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no Party shall be liable to or otherwise responsible to any other Party hereto or any Affiliate of any other Party hereto for any damages including, exemplary, punitive, consequential, incidental, indirect or special damages or lost profits that arise out of or relate to a breach of any covenant or agreement in this Agreement under any and all theories of liability in an amount that exceeds $200,000,000 (or $150,000,000 if the damages arise out of a breach of a covenant that is within the Knowledge of CCE or Knowledge of TCCC, as applicable prior to the Effective Time but for which such party has failed to provide prompt written notice to the other) plus related actual out-of-pocket expenses; provided that, (a) if any party hereto shall have acted in willful and reckless disregard of its obligations set forth in this Agreement, or (b) any party shall have failed to cure by the Termination Date a breach of a covenant or agreement for which the other party has provided prompt written notice, then the other party shall be entitled to pursue any remedy it has at law including to seek any and all damages (without limitation in amount) including exemplary, punitive, consequential, incidental, indirect or special damages or lost profits or under any other theory of liability.
Limitation on Damages
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
This Tax Sharing Agreement (the "") is entered into as of February 25, 2010 by and among Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), International CCE, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and The Coca-Cola Company, a Delaware corporation ("" and together with CCE and Splitco, each a "" and collectively, the ""). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Business Separation and Merger Agreement, dated as of February 25, 2010, between CCE, Splitco, TCCC and Cobalt Subsidiary LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "").
Agreement
CCE
Splitco
TCCC
Party
Parties
Merger Agreement
WHEREAS, CCE is the common parent corporation of an affiliated group of corporations, within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code, that has filed consolidated federal income Tax Returns;
WHEREAS, Splitco is a wholly-owned subsidiary of CCE;
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to (i) restructure CCE's businesses so that all equity interests directly or indirectly owned by it in entities engaged in businesses other than the North American Business (the "") shall be owned, directly or indirectly, by Splitco, and (ii) convert all shares of CCE Common Stock, except for any such shares owned by TCCC or CCE, into shares of Splitco Common Stock and cash;
Other CCE Businesses
WHEREAS, the Parties intend that the conversion of shares of CCE Common Stock at the Effective Time pursuant to the Merger will qualify under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code (except as provided in Section 356(b) of the Code); and
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to set forth their rights and obligations with respect to Taxes due for periods before and after the Closing Date.
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth herein, as well as other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged and accepted, and intending to be legally bound hereby, each of CCE, Splitco and TCCC hereby agrees as follows:
1.01 GENERAL. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
Agreement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.02.
Claim
"" and "" shall have the meanings set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Closing
Closing Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
TCCC
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
TCCC Filed Tax Return
"" shall mean the written opinion (or opinions) of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, to the effect that the distribution of Enterprises KOC Acquisition Company ("Canadian Holdco") to Bottling Holdings (International) Inc. ("BHI") will qualify under Section 355 of the Code, the merger of BHI with and into CCE (or with and into a limited liability company wholly owned by, and treated for United States federal income Tax purposes as an entity disregarded from, CCE) will qualify under Section 332 of the Code, the transfers to Splitco will qualify under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, and the conversion of shares of CCE Common Stock at the Effective Time will qualify under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code (except as provided in Section 356(b) of the Code).
TCCC Tax Opinion
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(a).
TCCC Taxes
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
CCE
"" shall mean (i) CCE and each of its Subsidiaries immediately following the Effective Time and (ii) each Person that becomes a Subsidiary of CCE after the Effective Time.
CCE
Group
"" shall mean the aggregate of (i) 35% of CCE's and each of its Subsidiaries' United States federal income tax net operating loss carryovers, and charitable contribution carryovers, and (ii) CCE's and each of its Subsidiaries' United States federal income tax carryovers of alternative minimum tax credits, foreign tax credits, general business credits, and jobs credits, in each case determined as of immediately following the end of the Closing Date (taking into account any increase or reduction in such CCE Tax Benefits pursuant to a Final Determination); , , that with respect to any taxable period not ending at the end of the Closing Date, the CCE Tax Benefits shall be calculated as if such taxable period ended at the end of the Closing Date.
CCE Tax Benefits
provided
however
"" shall mean the written opinion (or opinions) of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, to the effect that the distribution of Canadian Holdco to BHI will qualify under Section 355 of the Code, the merger of BHI with and into CCE (or with and into a
CCE Tax Opinion
 
limited liability company wholly owned by, and treated for United States federal income Tax purposes as an entity disregarded from, CCE) will qualify under Section 332 of the Code, the transfers to Splitco will qualify under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, and the conversion of shares of CCE Common Stock at the Effective Time will qualify under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code (except as provided in Section 356(b) of the Code).
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.01.
Dispute
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(d).
Employee Benefit Tax Item
"" shall mean a determination within the meaning of Section 1313 of the Code or any similar provision of state or local Tax Law or any other event (including the execution of a Form 870-AD or any other form having substantially the same effect for purposes of any Tax Law) that finally and conclusively establishes the amount of any liability for Tax.
Final Determination
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.02.
Indemnified Party
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.02.
Indemnifying Party
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
Merger Agreement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
Parties
"" shall mean any taxable year or other taxable period beginning after the Closing Date and, in the case of any taxable year or other taxable period that begins on or before and ends after the Closing Date, that part of the taxable year or other taxable period that begins at the beginning of the day after the Closing Date.
Post-Closing Period
"" shall mean any taxable year or other taxable period that ends on or before the Closing Date and, in the case of any taxable year or other taxable period that begins on or before and ends after the Closing Date, that part of the taxable year or other taxable period through the close of the Closing Date.
Pre-Closing Period
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(a).
Private Letter Ruling
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.02.
Prohibited Acts
"" means a transaction or series of related transactions (or any agreement, understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations, within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, to enter into a transaction or series of related transactions), as a result of which Splitco or CCE, which for purposes of this definition shall be referred to as the "relevant corporation" (or any successor thereto) would merge or consolidate with any other Person or as a result of which any Person or any group of Persons would (directly or indirectly) acquire, or have the right to acquire (through an option or otherwise) any amount of stock of the relevant corporation, that would, when combined with any other changes in ownership of the stock of the relevant corporation pertinent for purposes of Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, comprise more than forty percent (40%) of the value of all outstanding stock of the relevant corporation as of the date of such transaction, or in the case of a series of
Proposed Acquisition Transaction
 
transactions, the date of the last transaction of such series. For purposes of determining whether a transaction constitutes an indirect acquisition for purposes of the first sentence of this definition, any recapitalization resulting in a shift of voting power or any redemption of shares of stock (including any redemption of equity of the relevant corporation pursuant to the exception in Section 3.02(iii)) shall be treated as an indirect acquisition of stock by the non-exchanging shareholders. This definition and the application thereof is intended to monitor compliance with Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder and shall be interpreted accordingly by the Parties in good faith; , , that this definition shall not be interpreted in any way that will prevent or limit any issuance, disposition, redemption or other transaction with respect to TCCC stock.
provided
however
"" shall mean the request for the Private Letter Ruling to be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service, including the exhibits attached thereto, and all related supplements.
Ruling Request
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement; , , that for purposes of this Agreement, the transactions described in Paragraph 9 of Schedule A of the Merger Agreement are Separation Transactions.
Separation Transactions
provided
however
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
Splitco
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(b).
Splitco Filed Tax Return
"" shall mean (i) Splitco and each of its Subsidiaries immediately following the Effective Time and (ii) each Person that becomes a Subsidiary of Splitco after the Effective Time.
Splitco Group
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(b).
Splitco Taxes
"" shall mean any taxable year or other taxable period that begins on or before and ends after the Closing Date.
Straddle Period
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.01.
Tax Arbitrator
"" shall mean the Tax effect of any item of loss, deduction or credit or any other item that decreases Taxes paid or payable.
Tax Benefit
"" shall mean certificates of officers of TCCC, CCE and Splitco, provided to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP in connection with the Tax Opinions.
Tax Certificates
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.01.
Tax Contest
"" shall mean any information required in order to prepare and file any Tax Return.
Tax Information Packages
"" shall mean (A) the Private Letter Ruling, (B) the Tax Opinions, (C) the Ruling Request, (D) the Tax Certificates and (E) any other materials delivered or deliverable in connection with the issuance of the Private Letter Ruling or the rendering of the Tax Opinions.
Tax Materials
 
 
"" shall mean the TCCC Tax Opinion and the CCE Tax Opinion.
Tax Opinions
"" shall mean any return, report, certificate, form or similar statement or document (including any related supporting information or schedule attached thereto and any information return, amended Tax return, claim for refund or declaration of estimated Tax) required to be supplied to, or filed with, a Governmental Entity, or any bill for or notice related to ad valorem or other similar Taxes received from a Governmental Entity, in each case, in connection with the determination, assessment or collection of any Tax or the administration of any laws, regulations or administrative requirements relating to any Tax.
Tax Return
"" shall mean any Governmental Entity having jurisdiction over the assessment, determination, collection or imposition of any Tax.
Taxing Authority
1.02 INTERPRETATION. For all purposes of this Agreement: (i) the terms defined in this Agreement include the plural as well as the singular; (ii) all references in this Agreement to "Preamble", "Recitals", "Articles", "Sections" and other subdivisions are to the designated preamble, recitals, articles, sections and other subdivisions of the body of this Agreement; (iii) pronouns of either gender or neuter include, as appropriate, the other pronoun forms; (iv) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; (v) "or" is not exclusive; (vi) "including" shall be deemed to be followed by "but not limited to"; and (vii) any definition of or reference to any statute shall be construed as referring also to any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
2.01 OBLIGATIONS TO FILE TAX RETURNS.
(a) TCCC shall have the sole and exclusive responsibility for the preparation and filing of each Tax Return filed after the Closing Date for any Post-Closing Period or Straddle Period that includes any member of the CCE Group (each, a ""); , , that, except as otherwise required by Law, (w) all TCCC Filed Tax Returns shall be prepared on a basis that is consistent with the Tax Materials and, with respect to TCCC Filed Tax Returns for Straddle Periods, except as provided in Section 3.03, consistent with past practices of CCE, (x) Splitco shall prepare and deliver to TCCC in a manner consistent with past practices of CCE and its Subsidiaries, except as provided in Section 3.03, pro forma Tax Returns and Tax Information Packages with respect to each member of the Splitco Group or portion of the Other CCE Businesses included in, or reflected on, a TCCC Filed Tax Return, no later than ninety (90) days before the due date for the filing of the relevant Tax Return (including any valid extensions), (y) TCCC shall provide to Splitco no later than thirty (30) days in advance of the due date for the filing thereof (including any valid extensions), and Splitco shall have a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on, any such TCCC Filed Tax Return (or the relevant portion thereof) to the extent that (I) such TCCC Filed Tax Return includes any member of the Splitco Group, or (II) Splitco is responsible for any portion of the Taxes reported on such TCCC Filed
TCCC
Filed Tax Return
provided
however
 
Tax Return, and (z) TCCC shall not take any position on any TCCC Filed Tax Return that includes any member of the Splitco Group that (I) would reasonably be expected to result in a "listed transaction" within the meaning of Section 6707A(c)(2) of the Code or any comparable provision of state, local or foreign Tax Law, (II) would reasonably be expected to result in penalties under any applicable Tax Law, or (III) would reasonably be expected to require disclosure under Section 6664 of the Code or any comparable provision of state, local or foreign Tax Law in order to avoid penalties, all without Splitco's prior written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Except as otherwise provided herein (including as provided in Sections 5.03 and 5.04), TCCC shall have the exclusive right to file, prosecute, compromise or settle any claim for, or refund of, Taxes in respect of a TCCC Filed Tax Return for which TCCC bears responsibility hereunder.
(b) Splitco shall have the sole and exclusive responsibility for the preparation and filing of (i) each Tax Return that is required to be filed after the Closing Date that includes (A) any member of the Splitco Group, or (B) any assets or operations of the Other CCE Businesses, that, in each case, is not a TCCC Filed Tax Return and (ii) Tax Returns required to be filed for any Pre-Closing Period that is not a Straddle Period that include any member of the CCE Group (each, a ""); , , that, except as otherwise required by Law, (w) all Splitco Filed Tax Returns shall be prepared on a basis that is consistent with the Tax Materials and, with respect to Splitco Filed Tax Returns for Pre-Closing Periods and Straddle Periods, except as provided in Section 3.03, consistent with past practices of CCE, (x) TCCC shall prepare and deliver to Splitco in a manner consistent with past practices of CCE and its Subsidiaries, except as provided in Section 3.03, pro forma Tax Returns and Tax Information Packages with respect to each member of the CCE Group or portion of the North American Business included in, or reflected on, a Splitco Filed Tax Return, no later than ninety (90) days before the due date for the filing of the relevant Tax Return (including any valid extensions), (y) Splitco shall provide to TCCC no later than thirty (30) days in advance of the due date for the filing thereof (including any valid extensions), and TCCC shall have a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on, any such Splitco Filed Tax Return (or the relevant portion thereof) to the extent that (I) such Splitco Filed Tax Return includes any member of the CCE Group, or (II) TCCC is responsible for any portion of the Taxes reported on such Splitco Filed Tax Return, and (z) Splitco shall not take any position on any Splitco Filed Tax Return that includes any member of the CCE Group that (I) would reasonably be expected to result in a "listed transaction" within the meaning of Section 6707A(c)(2) of the Code or any comparable provision of state, local or foreign Tax Law, (II) would reasonably be expected to result in penalties under any applicable Tax Law, or (III) would reasonably be expected to require disclosure under Section 6664 of the Code or any comparable provision of state, local or foreign Tax Law in order to avoid penalties, all without TCCC's prior written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Except as otherwise provided herein (including as provided in Sections 5.02 and 5.04), Splitco shall have the exclusive right to file, prosecute, compromise or settle any claim for, or refund of, taxes in respect of a Splitco Filed Tax Return for which Splitco bears responsibility hereunder.
Splitco Filed Tax Return
provided
however
2.02 OBLIGATION TO REMIT TAXES. Subject to Section 2.01 and subject to the ultimate division of responsibility for Taxes set out in Section 2.03, the CCE Group and the Splitco Group shall each remit or cause to be remitted to the applicable Governmental Entity in a timely manner any Taxes due in respect of any Tax Return that such Party is required to file (or, in the case of a Tax for which no Tax Return is required to be filed, which is otherwise payable by such Party or a member of such Party's group to any Governmental Entity). In the case of any TCCC Filed Tax Return or Splitco Filed Tax Return, for which the Party not required to file such Tax Return is obligated under this Agreement to pay all or a portion of the Taxes reported as due on such Tax Return, the Party filing such Tax Return shall notify the other Party, in writing, of its obligation to pay such Taxes and the Party receiving such notice shall pay such amount to the Party filing such Tax Return in accordance with the notice and payment provisions contained in ARTICLE IV.
 
 
2.03 TAX SHARING OBLIGATIONS AND PRIOR AGREEMENTS.
(a) Except as provided in Section 4.01, TCCC and the members of the CCE Group shall be responsible for the payment of (and shall be entitled to any refund of, whether received in cash or applied against future Tax obligations) (i) all Taxes for any Post-Closing Period attributable to any member of the CCE Group or the North American Business, other than (A) Taxes arising as a result of the Separation Transactions (including the Merger), or any transaction incidental thereto entered into for the purpose of effecting the Separation Transactions, as mutually agreed by the Parties, except to the extent such Taxes are described in clause (ii) or arise as a result of any breach of any covenant or any other obligation contained in the Tax Materials or this Agreement or the Merger Agreement by TCCC or any of its Subsidiaries or, following the Effective Time, any member of the CCE Group, and (ii) 50% of any Taxes arising as a result of the Merger not qualifying under Section 355 of the Code, to the extent such Taxes do not arise as a result of any breach of any covenant or any other obligation contained in the Tax Materials or this Agreement by TCCC, Splitco or any of their Subsidiaries (collectively, the "").
TCCC
Taxes
(b) Except as provided in Section 4.01, Splitco and the members of the Splitco Group shall be responsible for the payment of (and shall be entitled to any refund of, whether received in cash or applied against future Tax obligations) (i) all Taxes attributable to any member of the Splitco Group or the Other CCE Businesses, (ii) all Taxes for any Pre-Closing Period attributable to any member of the CCE Group or the North American Business, (iii) 50% of any Taxes arising as a result of the Merger not qualifying under Section 355 of the Code, to the extent such Taxes do no arise as a result of any breach of any covenant or any other obligation contained in the Tax Materials or this Agreement by TCCC, Splitco or any of their Subsidiaries, and (iv) the Taxes described in Section 2.03(a)(i)(A) (collectively, the "").
Splitco Taxes
(c) In order to apportion appropriately any Taxes relating to a tax period that would otherwise be a Straddle Period between the portion of such period ending as of the end of the Closing Date and the portion of such period beginning after the Closing Date, the Parties shall, to the extent permitted under applicable Law, elect with the relevant Governmental Entity to treat for all Tax purposes the Closing Date as the last day of a taxable year (in which case such period will not be a Straddle Period). In the case of any Taxes for a Straddle Period for which such election to close the taxable year is not permitted, the portion of such Taxes that is allocable to the portion of the Straddle Period ending as of the end of the Closing Date shall be: (i) in the case of ad valorem or similar Taxes that are imposed on a periodic basis, an amount equal to the amount of such Taxes for the entire period multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days in the Straddle Period prior to and including the Closing Date and the denominator of which is the number of days in the entire relevant Straddle Period, and (ii) in the case of Taxes not described in (i) (such as Taxes that are either (A) based upon or related to income or receipts, or (B) imposed in connection with any sale or other transfer or assignment of property (real or personal, tangible or intangible)), deemed equal to the amount that would be payable if the Taxable Year ended on and included the Closing Date. Any income, deductions, gains or losses recognized on transactions not in the ordinary course of business on or prior to the Effective Time will be allocated to the Pre-Closing Period, and any income, deductions, gains or losses recognized on any transactions not in the ordinary course of business after the Effective Time (including after the Effective Time but on the Closing Date) will be allocated to the Post-Closing Period.
 
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary contained herein, in the Merger Agreement or in any Ancillary Agreement, the Parties agree to allocate the Tax Benefits resulting from the employee benefit items set forth on Schedule 2.03(d) ("") in accordance therewith. Unless and until there has been a Final Determination to the contrary or a change in Law as a result of which there is not substantial authority in support of such allocation, each Party agrees not to take any position on any Tax Return, in connection with any Tax Contest or otherwise that is inconsistent with the allocation of Employee Benefit Tax Items between the CCE Group and the Splitco Group as set forth in this Section 2.03(d). To the extent that the Party entitled under applicable Law to an Employee Benefit Tax Item is determined, pursuant to a Final Determination or a change in Law as a result of which there is not substantial authority in support of the agreed allocation as provided in Schedule 2.03(d), to be other than the Party entitled to such Employee Benefit Tax Item under Schedule 2.03(d), the Party entitled to such Employee Benefit Tax Item under applicable Law shall pay the other Party the amount of any Tax Benefit actually realized with respect to such Employee Benefit Tax Item within thirty (30) days following the filing date of a Tax Return which reflects the realization of such Tax Benefit item.
Employee Benefit Tax Items
(e) Except as set forth in this Agreement and in consideration of the mutual indemnities and other obligations in this Agreement, (i) any and all prior Tax sharing or allocation agreements or practices between any member of the CCE Group, on one hand, and any member of the Splitco Group, on the other hand, shall be terminated as of or before the Effective Time, and no member of one group shall have any continuing rights or obligations thereunder with respect to any member of the other group and (ii) any and all powers of attorney with respect to any member of the CCE Group shall be terminated as of or before the Effective Time, and no member of the CCE Group shall have any continuing obligations thereunder.
2.04 AMENDED RETURNS.
(a) Splitco shall not, and shall not permit any member of the Splitco Group, to file any amended Tax Return that includes any member of the CCE Group or any of the assets or operations of the North American Business for any taxable period without the consent of TCCC, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed; , , that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Splitco and all members of the Splitco Group shall be permitted to file any amended Tax Return required to be filed for purposes of implementing the actions permitted under Paragraph I(B) of Schedule 3.03 or in order to reduce, eliminate or offset any additional income or Taxes resulting from such permitted actions. TCCC shall provide a response to a request for such consent from Splitco within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Receipt of consent by Splitco or a member of the Splitco Group from TCCC under the provisions of this Section 2.04(a) shall not limit or modify Splitco's continuing indemnification obligation under Section 4.01(b).
provided
however
 
 
(b) TCCC shall not, and shall not permit any member of the CCE Group, to file any amended Tax Return that includes (i) any member of the Splitco Group or any of the assets or operations of the Other CCE Businesses for any taxable period or (ii) any member of the CCE Group or any of the assets or operations of the North American Business for any Pre-Closing Period or any Straddle Period, in each case without the consent of Splitco, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Splitco shall provide a response to a request for such consent from TCCC within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Receipt of consent by TCCC or a member of the CCE Group from Splitco under the provisions of this Section 2.04(b) shall not limit or modify CCE's continuing indemnification obligation under Section 4.01(a).
2.05 TRANSFER TAXES. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, all documentary, sales, use, registration, value added, transfer, stamp and similar Taxes incurred in connection with the transactions described in the first sentence of Paragraph 3, and in Paragraph 9 of Schedule A of the Merger Agreement (collectively, "") shall be borne 50% by TCCC and its subsidiaries following the Effective Time and 50% by Splitco and its subsidiaries following the Effective Time. The Party required by Law to file any Tax Returns with respect to any such Transfer Taxes shall prepare and file such Tax Returns and pay such Transfer Taxes to the appropriate Taxing Authority. TCCC (or any of its Subsidiaries following the Effective Time) shall pay by wire transfer to Splitco and Splitco (or any of its Subsidiaries following the Effective Time) shall pay by wire transfer to TCCC the payor's share of the Transfer Taxes which are payable with Tax Returns to be filed by the other Party (or any of its Subsidiaries following the Effective Time) at least three days prior to the due date for the payment of such Transfer Taxes.
Transfer Taxes
3.01 PRIVATE LETTER RULING AND TAX OPINIONS.
(a) The Parties shall, and shall cause their Subsidiaries to, use their reasonable best efforts to obtain a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, in form and substance satisfactory to TCCC, CCE and Splitco, to the effect, among other things, that the distribution of Canadian Holdco to BHI will qualify under Section 355 of the Code, the merger of BHI with and into CCE (or with and into a limited liability company wholly owned by, and treated for United States federal income Tax purposes as an entity disregarded from, CCE) will qualify under Section 332 of the Code, the transfers to Splitco will qualify under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, and the conversion of shares of CCE Common Stock at the Effective Time pursuant to the Merger will qualify under Sections 355 and 361of the Code (except as provided in Section 356(b) of the Code) (the ""), as soon as practicable after the date of this Agreement. The Parties shall cooperate in good faith in determining any additional issues or matters required to be addressed by the Private Letter Ruling. CCE shall be responsible in the first instance for the preparation and filing of the Ruling Request and all related correspondence, provided, however, that no submissions shall be submitted without TCCC's approval,
Private Letter Ruling
 
such approval not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. CCE and TCCC shall use their reasonable best efforts to assure that the Ruling Request is filed with the Internal Revenue Service not later than 30 days after public announcement of the proposed transaction. TCCC shall be provided drafts of all submissions a reasonable period in advance of submission, to review, comment upon and approve, materials prepared by CCE. The filing Party shall provide the other Party copies of the Ruling Request and all other memoranda, correspondence or other submissions as filed with the Internal Revenue Service promptly following the filing thereof. Each of CCE and TCCC shall have the right to participate fully in the process of obtaining the Private Letter Ruling, including attending meetings and participating in conference calls with the Internal Revenue Service. Each of CCE and TCCC shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its respective Affiliates, employees, accountants, counsel and other representatives to cooperate with the other Party and its representatives in obtaining the Private Letter Ruling, including by (i) participating in meetings and conference calls with the Internal Revenue Service, (ii) assisting in the preparation of all memoranda, ruling requests, correspondence and other submissions that are deemed reasonably necessary or desirable by either Party in connection with obtaining the Private Letter Ruling, (iii) executing and delivering customary documents and instruments (such as penalties of perjury statements) that are deemed reasonably necessary by either Party in connection with obtaining the Private Letter Ruling, and (iv) taking other actions reasonably necessary in connection with obtaining the Private Letter Ruling.
(b) Each of the Parties shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the Tax Opinions. In connection with the foregoing, each of the Parties shall (i) furnish its respective Tax Certificate (or Tax Certificates) to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Cahill Gordon & Reindel on a timely basis, executed by an authorized officer of such Party, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Cahill Gordon & Reindel and (ii) otherwise cooperate in connection with obtaining the Tax Opinions.
LLP
LLP
(c) From and after the date of this Agreement, each of the Parties agrees that it shall (i) effect the Separation Transactions (including the Merger), or any transaction incidental thereto entered into for the purpose of effecting the Separation Transactions, as mutually agreed by the Parties, in a manner that is consistent with the Tax Materials, (ii) comply with, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to comply with, the representations made in connection with the Private Letter Ruling, the Tax Opinions, and the Tax Certificates, and not take, or fail to take, and prevent any of its Subsidiaries from taking, or failing to take, any action, which action or failure to act would be likely to, or does invalidate, directly or indirectly, any of the conclusions contained in the Private Letter Ruling or the Tax Opinions whether or not such action or failure to act is otherwise permitted pursuant to this Agreement and (iii) not take or fail to take, and prevent any of its Subsidiaries from taking, or failing to take, any action, which action or failure to act is inconsistent with any representation, statement or covenant made in the Private Letter Ruling, its respective Tax Certificate, or in connection with the Private Letter Ruling or the Tax Opinions.
3.02 OPINION OR PRIVATE LETTER RULING REQUIREMENT FOR MAJOR TRANSACTIONS. TCCC (on behalf of itself and all members of the CCE Group) and Splitco (on behalf of itself and all members of the Splitco Group) hereby covenant and agree that no member of the CCE Group or the Splitco Group, respectively, will take or permit to be taken within two (2) years of the Effective Time the following actions: (i) any Proposed Acquisition Transaction or approval of any Proposed Acquisition Transaction for any purpose; (ii) the issuance of any CCE equity or Splitco equity, respectively, or rights to acquire any CCE or Splitco equity (other than (A) any such issuance qualifying under Treasury Regulations Section 1.355-7(d)(8) in connection with the performance of services, or (B)
 
any issuances which, in the aggregate, would not result in a Proposed Acquisition Transaction); (iii) redemptions or repurchases of any CCE equity or Splitco equity, respectively (except to the extent consistent with the requirements of Rev. Proc. 96-30, 1996-1 C.B. 696, and statements made with respect thereto in the Ruling Request and the Private Letter Ruling); (iv) recapitalizations or other dispositions of, or modifications to the terms of, any CCE equity or Splitco equity, respectively; (v) any liquidation of CCE or Splitco, respectively (including any transaction treated as a liquidation of CCE or Splitco for federal income tax purposes); (vi) any sale of all or substantially all of CCE's assets or Splitco's assets, respectively, in a single transaction or series of related transactions; (vii) the disposition or discontinuance of the operation of any active trade or business assets except in the ordinary course of business; (viii) any conversion of CCE or Splitco, respectively, to a foreign corporation (including, for proposes of clarification, any formation of a foreign holding corporation); and (ix) any actions or positions inconsistent with any representation or covenant contained in Section 3.01 or Section 6.02 of this Agreement, and no member of the CCE Group or Splitco Group will take or permit to be taken any action at any time that could jeopardize, directly or indirectly, any of the conclusions contained in the Private Letter Ruling or the Tax Opinions (collectively, the ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, CCE or Splitco or a member of the CCE Group or Splitco Group may take any of the Prohibited Acts if it obtains (1) the written consent of the other Parties, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, or (2) (a) an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the other Parties, that the taking of such action will not adversely affect, directly or indirectly, any of the conclusions contained in the Private Letter Ruling or the Tax Opinions, or (b) a supplemental ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the taking of such action will not adversely affect, directly or indirectly, any of the conclusions contained in the Private Letter Ruling, , , that no request for a supplemental ruling shall be made prior to obtaining the other Parties' consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, and that the other Parties shall have the right to participate in the preparation of all material correspondence, calls, meetings and similar events related to obtaining such supplemental ruling. Each requested Party shall provide a response to a request for consent under the provisions of this Section 3.02 within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Receipt of consent under the provisions of this Section 3.02 shall not limit or modify the recipient's continuing indemnification obligation under Section 4.01. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the provisions of this Section 3.02 shall not be interpreted in any way that will prevent or limit any issuance, disposition, redemption or other transaction with respect to TCCC stock.
Prohibited Acts
provided
however
3.03 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
(a) Splitco (on behalf of itself and all members of the Splitco Group and, with respect to periods on or prior to the Effective Time, all members of the CCE Group) covenants and agrees that subject to TCCC's consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, (i) except as expressly contemplated by the terms of this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or Schedule 3.03, neither Splitco nor any member of the Splitco Group nor, on or prior to the Effective Time, any member of the CCE group, will (A) make, change or rescind any material Tax election, or (B) make, change or rescind any material method of accounting, (ii) neither Splitco nor any member of the Splitco Group nor, on or prior to the Effective Time, any member of the CCE Group, will take any action (including making any Tax election) specifically listed on Schedule 3.03 as a prohibited action, and (iii) Splitco shall, or shall cause the members of the Splitco Group or, on or prior to the Effective Time, the members of the CCE
 
Group to take the actions (including Tax elections) specifically listed on Schedule 3.03 as actions required to be taken by Splitco; , , that TCCC shall consent to any action or failure to act that is inconsistent with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) to the extent that (I) the benefit of such action or failure to act to Splitco and the members of the Splitco Group is greater than the detriment of such action or failure to act to TCCC and the CCE Group, and (II) Splitco agrees to indemnify TCCC for any such detriment. Nothing herein shall limit any action permitted under the Merger Agreement (except for actions specifically prohibited under this Section 3.03(a)), however, in the event that Splitco or any member of the Splitco Group or, on or prior to the Effective Time, any member of the CCE Group takes or fails to take any action, outside the ordinary course of business or otherwise inconsistent with past practice, that has the effect of increasing, reducing, accelerating or deferring income or deductions or other Tax attributes (a ""), except as specifically listed on Schedule 3.03, Splitco agrees to indemnify TCCC for any net Tax detriment arising from such Timing Tax Impact.
provided
however
Timing Tax Impact
(b) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Splitco shall be allowed to utilize any Tax attributes generated under state or Canadian Tax Law in order to minimize Splitco Taxes imposed as a result of the Separation Transactions or of any transaction incidental thereto entered into for the purpose of effecting the Separation Transactions, as mutually agreed by the Parties.
(c) Except as expressly contemplated by the terms of this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or Schedule 3.03, or with the consent of Splitco, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, TCCC will not cause or permit CCE or any member of the CCE Group to take (or fail to take) any action on the Closing Date after the Effective Time which action (or failure) is not in the ordinary course of business.
4.01 INDEMNITY OBLIGATIONS.
(a) Notwithstanding whether any action is permitted or consented to hereunder, TCCC shall indemnify and hold harmless Splitco and its Affiliates (including any member of the Splitco Group) from and against, and will reimburse Splitco for (without duplication) (i) all TCCC Taxes, and (ii) all Taxes and Losses by reason of or arising from any breach by TCCC or (after the Effective Time) any member of the CCE Group of any representation, covenant or obligation under this Agreement or Section 5.10 of the Merger Agreement.
(b) Notwithstanding whether any action is permitted or consented to hereunder, Splitco shall indemnify and hold harmless TCCC and its Affiliates (including any member of the CCE Group) from and against, and will reimburse TCCC for (without duplication) (i) all Splitco Taxes, (ii) all Taxes and Losses by reason of or arising from any breach by any member of the CCE Group (on or prior to the Effective Time) or the Splitco Group of any representation, covenant or obligation under this Agreement, or Sections 4.15 and 6.1(o) of the Merger Agreement (including any reduction in any item of CCE Tax Benefits by reason of or arising from any breach of any covenant or obligation of CCE or Splitco under Section 3.03), and (iii) the excess of $292,000,000 over the CCE Tax Benefits actually available to the CCE Group immediately following the Closing Date, as ultimately determined for U.S. federal income Tax purposes, taking into account any increase or decrease in the amount of such CCE Tax Benefits after the Closing Date.
 
 
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the Merger Agreement to the contrary, any indemnification under this Agreement shall not be subject to any (i) limitation under the Merger Agreement or any other agreement, including any Basket or Cap, (ii) offset or reduction for any CCE Tax Benefits in excess of $292,000,000 (except as provided in Section 4.05), (iii) offset or reduction for any Tax items reflected on the Closing Balance Sheet or any other balance sheet of CCE or any member of the CCE Group, except for any accrued Taxes that are reflected as a liability on the Closing Balance Sheet to the extent such Taxes reduce the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital.
4.02 NOTICE. A Party making a claim for indemnification under this Agreement (the "") shall provide the Party from whom such indemnification is sought (the "") with written notice of such claim describing such claim in reasonable detail and accompanied by reasonable documentation supporting such claim (the "") no later than twenty (20) Business Days after the Indemnified Party (i) files a Tax Return reporting Taxes due or other items which are subject to indemnification or (ii) receives written notice with respect to Taxes or other items that may be subject to indemnification under this Agreement, , , that in the event that timely notice is not provided, the Indemnifying Party shall be relieved of its obligation to indemnify the Indemnified Party only to the extent that such delay results in actual increased costs or actual prejudice.
Indemnified Party
Indemnifying Party
Claim
provided
however
4.03 TIMING OF PAYMENTS. The Indemnifying Party shall pay the amount of any Claim to the Indemnified Party within fifteen (15) Business Days of receipt of the Claim, , if such Claim is still subject to the outcome of any Tax Contest, then payment shall not be due until fifteen (15) Business Days after such Claim either is resolved through a Final Determination, or prior to a Final Determination, if the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party agree on the indemnification obligation under this Agreement with respect to such Claim. All indemnification payments due under this Agreement shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account of the Indemnified Party. Any payment required to be paid pursuant to this Agreement that is not paid by the 30th day after such payment is due shall accrue interest from and including such 30th day after the due date to and including the date of payment at the rate of one month LIBOR plus 25 basis points per annum simple interest.
provided
that
4.04 CCE TAX BENEFITS. At least three (3) Business Days prior to the Closing Date (but not more than five (5) Business Days prior to the Closing Date), CCE shall deliver to TCCC a certificate of CCE's Tax Director (the "") setting forth CCE's good faith estimate, calculating in reasonable detail the aggregate CCE Tax Benefits actually available to the CCE Group immediately following the Closing Date, as determined for U.S. federal income Tax purposes (the ""). If the Certified CCE Tax Benefits are less than $292,000,000, then Splitco shall pay or cause to be paid to CCE at the Closing an amount equal to such difference, which shall not be taken into account in the determination of the Certified Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital, the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital, or any other purchase price adjustments under the Merger Agreement. Such payment shall be made or taken into account in the manner set forth in
CCE
Tax Benefits Certificate
Certified
CCE
Tax Benefits
 
Paragraph 7 of Schedule A of the Merger Agreement. Within 120 days following the Closing Date, TCCC shall provide Splitco a revised CCE Tax Benefits Certificate (the "") for review, and shall incorporate Splitco's reasonable comments on such Revised CCE Tax Benefits Certificate. To the extent the parties agree on the Revised CCE Tax Benefits Certificate and the revised Certified CCE Tax Benefits (""), or upon resolution of any disagreement with respect to such revised certificate in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE VIII, CCE shall pay Splitco the excess (if any) of the lower of $292,000,000 or the Revised Certified CCE Tax Benefits over the Certified CCE Tax Benefits or Splitco shall pay CCE the excess (if any) of the lower of $292,000,000 or the Certified CCE Tax Benefits over the Revised Certified CCE Tax Benefits. The Revised CCE Tax Benefits Certificate shall be amended as required to reflect any adjustments in any item of CCE Tax Benefits pursuant to a Final Determination and the amount of any resulting adjustment in the Revised Certified CCE Tax Benefits shall be paid by Splitco to CCE or returned by CCE to Splitco (but not in excess of such amounts previously received by CCE and not returned to Splitco under this Section 4.04), as appropriate in accordance with the provisions of the immediately preceding sentence. Any dispute or disagreement between the Parties under this Section 4.04 shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE VIII.
Revised
CCE
Tax Benefits Certificate
Revised Certified CCE Tax Benefits
4.05 PENSION CONTRIBUTION.
(a) The payment by TCCC to CCE upon Closing pursuant to Section 3.14(b) of the Employee Matters Agreement (without taking into account a reduction in such amount pursuant to Section 3.14(b)(ii)) shall be equal to the lesser of (i) the Pre-Tax Contribution Amount and (ii) the sum of (A) 63% of the Pre-Tax Contribution Amount and (B) the excess of (x) the Certified CCE Tax Benefits above $292,000,000, over (y) the amount described in clause (x) calculated as if the Pre-Tax Contribution Amount had not been contributed to the Section 3.14 Pension Plans (as such term is defined in the Employee Matters Agreement). Such payment shall be made or taken into account in the manner set forth in Paragraph 7 of Schedule A of the Merger Agreement. Upon the determination of the Revised Certified CCE Tax Benefits and any subsequent adjustment thereto pursuant to Section 4.04, the amount payable pursuant to Section 3.14(b) of the Employee Matters Agreement (as calculated under this Section 4.05(a)) shall be redetermined, and the difference between such previously determined amount and the redetermined amount shall be paid by TCCC to Splitco (in the case of an increase in such amount) or by Splitco to TCCC (in the case of a decrease in such amount).
(b) "Pre-Tax Contribution Amount" shall mean the sum of (i) $145,000,000 (which represents the amount of all contributions to the Section 3.14 Pension Plans (as such term is defined in the Employee Matters Agreement) in 2009) and (ii) the amount (if any) of all contributions to the Section 3.14 Pension Plans (as such term is defined in the Employee Matters Agreement) made in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.14(b) of the Employee Matters Agreement after December 31, 2009 and on or before the Effective Time.
4.06 TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS. The Parties agree that any payment, adjustment, reimbursement, or amount made or taken into account (collectively, payments) among the Parties pursuant to (i) this Agreement, (ii) Section 6.23 (Adjusted Net Working Capital) and ARTICLE IX (indemnification) of the Merger Agreement and any other purchase price adjustments under the Merger
 
Agreement, (iii) Schedule A to the Merger Agreement, and (iv) Section 3.14(b) of the Employee Matters Agreement shall be treated, to the extent permitted by Law, for all Tax purposes as a non-taxable payment made immediately prior to the Merger; , , that to the extent the Parties are required by applicable Law to treat any post-Closing payment made pursuant to this Agreement as a taxable payment, the Tax imposed on such payment (including as a direct or indirect consequence of such payment) shall not be subject to indemnification under this Agreement or the Merger Agreement. To the extent practicable, any such payments to CCE or any Affiliate of CCE by Splitco or any member of the Splitco Group following the Closing will be segregated by CCE and transferred as promptly as practicable to creditors of CCE in payment of debt outstanding on the date hereof or incurred subsequent to the date hereof in the ordinary course of business, or to shareholders of CCE in respect of their CCE shares.
provided
however
5.01 NOTICE. The Indemnified Party shall promptly notify the Indemnifying Party in writing upon receipt by the Indemnified Party or any member of its group of a written communication from any Governmental Entity with respect to any pending or threatened audit, claim, dispute, suit, action, proposed assessment or other proceeding (a "") concerning any Taxes for which the Indemnifying Party may be liable under this Agreement.
Tax Contest
5.02 CONTROL OF CONTESTS BY TCCC. TCCC shall have the sole responsibility and control over the handling of any Tax Contest, including the exclusive right to communicate with agents of the Governmental Entity and to control, resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest, involving any TCCC Filed Tax Return, but excluding any such Tax Contest to the extent Splitco bears any material Tax liability that may result from or is attributable to such Tax Contest; , , that TCCC shall not resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest that affects the liability of Splitco or a member of the Splitco Group under this Agreement without the consent of Splitco, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Splitco shall provide a response to a request for such consent from TCCC within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Subject to TCCC's rights under this Section 5.02, Splitco shall, upon request and at its own expense, be allowed to participate in the handling of any such Tax Contest with respect to any item that may affect the liability of Splitco or any member of the Splitco Group under this Agreement.
provided
however
5.03 CONTROL OF CONTESTS BY SPLITCO. Subject to Section 5.02, Splitco shall have the sole responsibility and control over the handling of any Tax Contest, including the exclusive right to communicate with agents of the Governmental Entity and to control, resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest, involving any Splitco Filed Tax Return, but excluding any such Tax Contest to the extent TCCC bears any material Tax liability that may result from or is attributable to such Tax Contest; , , that Splitco shall not resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment
provided
however
 
proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest that affects the liability of TCCC or a member of the CCE Group under this Agreement, or that relates to any TCCC Filed Tax Return, without the consent of TCCC, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. TCCC shall provide a response to a request for such consent from Splitco within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Subject to Splitco's rights under this Section 5.03, TCCC shall, upon request and at its own expense, be allowed to participate in the handling of any such Tax Contest with respect to any item that may affect the liability of CCE or any member of the CCE Group under this Agreement.
5.04 JOINT CONTROL OF CONTESTS. The parties shall jointly control the handling of any Tax Contest, including any communication with agents of any Governmental Entity and the resolution, settlement or agreement to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest, to the extent such Tax Contest is not exclusively controlled by TCCC under Section 5.02 or by Splitco under Section 5.03.
6.01 GENERAL. Each Party shall fully cooperate, and shall cause all members of such Party's group (the CCE Group and the Splitco Group) to fully cooperate, with the other Parties in connection with the preparation and filing of any Tax Return or the conduct of any Tax Contest (including, where appropriate or necessary, providing a power of attorney) concerning any issues or any other matter contemplated under this Agreement (including the joint determination of the Tax items related or attributable to, or resulting from, the Separation Transactions (including the Merger), or any transaction incidental thereto entered into for the purpose of effecting the Separation Transactions, as mutually agreed by the Parties, including the items listed on Schedule 6.01). Each Party shall make its employees and facilities available on a mutually convenient basis to facilitate such cooperation.
6.02 CONSISTENT TREATMENT. Unless and except to the extent that there has been a Final Determination to the contrary or a change in Law that results in there not being substantial authority in support of (a) the allocation of Taxes and Employee Benefit Tax Items between the CCE Group and the Splitco Group as set forth in this Agreement, (b) any conclusion or representation in the Tax Materials, (c) any position required to be taken under Section 3.03, or (d) the Tax treatment of any transaction included in the Separation Transactions agreed upon by the parties, each Party agrees not to take any position on any Tax Return, in connection with any Tax Contest or otherwise that is inconsistent with clauses (a) through (d) of this Section 6.02.
 
 
7.01 For so long as the contents thereof may become material in the administration of any matter under applicable Tax Law, but in any event until the later of (i) the expiration of any applicable statutes of limitation and (ii) seven years after the Closing Date, the Parties shall (a) retain records, documents, accounting data and other information (including computer data and the systems necessary to access such data) necessary for the preparation and filing of all Tax Returns in respect of Taxes of any member of the CCE Group or the Splitco Group or for any Tax Contests relating to such Tax Returns, and (b) give to the other Parties reasonable access to such records, documents, accounting data and other information (including computer data) and to its personnel (insuring their cooperation), systems and premises, for the purpose of the review or audit of such Tax Returns to the extent relevant to an obligation or liability of a Party under this Agreement or for purposes of the preparation or filing of any such Tax Return, the conduct of any Tax Contest or any other matter reasonably and in good faith related to the Tax affairs of the requesting Party. At any time after the Closing Date that TCCC or Splitco proposes to destroy such material or information, it shall first notify the other Party in writing and such other Party shall be entitled to receive such materials or information proposed to be destroyed.
8.01 In the event of any disagreement arising under this Agreement, including any dispute in connection with a claim by a third party (a ""), the Parties shall promptly notify the tax director of each of TCCC and Splitco (each, a "" and, together, the "") of such Dispute, who together shall attempt in good faith to resolve such Dispute. If such Dispute is not resolved within twenty (20) Business Days following the date on which the Tax Directors receive notification, the Parties to such Dispute shall jointly retain an independent, nationally recognized law or accounting firm (the "") to act as an arbitrator in order to resolve the Dispute. The Tax Arbitrator's determination as to any Dispute shall be made in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and shall be final and binding on the Parties and not subject to collateral attack for any reason (other than manifest error). All fees and expenses of the Tax Arbitrator shall be shared equally by each of the Parties to the Dispute.
Dispute
Tax Director
Tax Directors
Tax Arbitrator
9.01 INCORPORATED MERGER AGREEMENT PROVISIONS. Subsections (b), (e) and (f) of Section 9.8, Sections 10.4 through 10.10, Section 10.12 and Section 10.13 of the Merger Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
 
9.02 EXPENSES. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Merger Agreement, TCCC shall pay (or cause to be paid) all fees and expenses incurred by it or on its behalf or by or on behalf of any of its Subsidiaries with respect to the matters addressed herein, and CCE (prior to the Effective Time) and Splitco (from and after the Effective Time) shall pay (or cause to be paid) all fees and expenses incurred by it or on its behalf or by or on behalf of any of its Subsidiaries with respect to the matters addressed herein.
9.04 NOTICES. All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder required to be delivered in writing shall be deemed given if delivered personally, telecopied (which is confirmed) or sent by overnight courier (providing proof of delivery) to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):
If to Splitco, to:
2500 Windy Ridge Parkway
Atlanta, Georgia 30339
Fax: (770) 989-3073
Attention: H. Lynn Oliver, Vice President, Tax
with a copy, which shall not constitute notice to Splitco, to:
2500 Windy Ridge Parkway
Atlanta, Georgia 30339
Fax: (770) 989-3784
Attention: John Parker, Senior Vice President, General Counsel
If to TCCC, to:
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, GA 30313
Fax: (404) 598-7196
Attention: Vice President and General Tax Counsel
with a copy, which shall not constitute notice to TCCC, to:
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, GA 30313
Fax: (404) 515-2546
Attention: Senior Vice President and General Counsel
9.05 APPLICATION TO PRESENT AND FUTURE SUBSIDIARIES. This Agreement is being entered into by TCCC, CCE and Splitco on behalf of themselves and the members of their respective groups (the CCE Group and the Splitco Group). This Agreement shall constitute a direct obligation of each such entity and shall be deemed to have been readopted and affirmed on behalf of any entity that becomes a Subsidiary of CCE or Splitco in the future.
 
 
9.06 FURTHER ASSURANCES. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Parties hereto shall make, execute, acknowledge and deliver such other instruments and documents, and take all such other actions, as may be reasonably required in order to effectuate the purposes of this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.
9.07 SURVIVAL. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, all representations, covenants and obligations contained in this Agreement shall survive for a period of ninety (90) days following the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations (including extensions thereof) with respect to any such matter.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Employee Matters Agreement (this "Agreement") is made as of February 25, 2010 by and among Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., a Delaware corporation ("CCE"), International CCE, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Splitco") and The Coca-Cola Company, a Delaware corporation ("TCCC").
CCE, Splitco, TCCC and Cobalt Subsidiary LLC ("Merger Sub") have concurrently entered into the Separation and Merger Agreement pursuant to which, upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, among other things, (i) CCE will consummate, or cause to be consummated, the Separation Transactions and (ii) following the Separation Transactions, TCCC will acquire CCE and the North American Business by means of a merger of Merger Sub with and into CCE, with CCE being the surviving corporation and pursuant to which (A) CCE will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of TCCC and (B) the outstanding shares of CCE Common Stock (other than the Excluded Shares) will be converted into the right to receive shares of Splitco Common Stock and cash as provided in the Separation and Merger Agreement.
This Agreement sets forth the agreement of the parties concerning (i) the transfer of employment of certain CCE Employees, (ii) the treatment of the CCE Benefit Plans and (iii) other matters related to CCE Employees.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth herein, as well as other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged and accepted, and intending to be legally bound hereby, each of CCE, Splitco and TCCC hereby agrees as follows:
The following capitalized terms as used in this Agreement shall have the meaning set forth below unless otherwise specified herein. Other capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given them in the Separation and Merger Agreement.
(a) "CCE Employee" shall mean an individual employed by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries, including any such individual who is on vacation or on approved leave of absence (including maternity, paternity, family, sick leave, disability leave, salary continuation, qualified military service under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 and leave under the Family Medical Leave Act, and other approved leaves, including approved leaves of absence under Laws of jurisdictions other than the United States).
 
 
(b) "CCE North American Employee" shall mean a CCE Employee whose services are provided in respect of the North American Business (i) immediately prior to the Effective Time (including each CCE North American Headquarters Employee but excluding each Transferred CCE North American Employee) or (ii) with respect to any proposed action under Section 2.2 or 3.2 or Article 5, at the time such action is proposed to be taken; provided, that in no event shall any individual who is or was a non-employee director of CCE be a CCE North American Employee.
(c) "CCE North American Headquarters Employee" shall mean a CCE Employee whose services are provided in respect of the Corporate Segment.
(d) "CCE Other Employee" shall mean a CCE Employee who is not a CCE North American Employee, including each Transferred CCE North American Employee.
(e) "CCE Stock Plans" shall mean, collectively, CCE's 1997 Stock Option Plan, 1999 Stock Option Plan, 2001 Restricted Stock Award Plan, 2001 Stock Option Plan, 2004 Stock Award Plan, 2007 Incentive Award Plan and Employee Stock Purchase Plan, in each case as amended through the most recent applicable amendment date, and all awards granted thereunder.
(f) "Former CCE Employee" shall mean any individual whose employment with CCE or any of its Subsidiaries is terminated prior to the Effective Time.
(g) "Separation and Merger Agreement" shall mean that certain Business Separation and Merger Agreement by and among CCE, TCCC, Splitco and Merger Sub, dated as of February 25, 2010.
(h) "Transferred CCE North American Employee" shall mean each CCE North American Headquarters Employee and each CCE North American Employee who, in accordance with Sections 5.2 and 2.1, becomes employed by Splitco or one of its Subsidiaries immediately prior to the Effective Time.
 
Except as provided in Section 2.2, CCE shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, take all actions necessary or desirable such that, effective no later than immediately prior to the Effective Time, (i) the CCE Other Employees shall be employed by Splitco or one of its Subsidiaries, (ii) the CCE North American Employees shall be employed by CCE or one of its Subsidiaries other than Splitco or one of Splitco's Subsidiaries, (iii) the Contracts regarding any individuals who are independent
 
contractors or consultants providing services to the North American Business shall be transferred to, and the liabilities and obligations with respect thereto assumed by, CCE, and (iv) the Contracts regarding any individuals who are independent contractors or consultants providing services to the Other CCE Businesses shall be transferred to, and the liabilities and obligations with respect thereto assumed by, Splitco.
 
(a) Set forth on Schedule 2.2 is a list, as of the date of this Agreement, of (i) each CCE North American Employee who is providing services to the North American Business on "international assignment" (as such term is used by CCE) and (ii) each CCE Other Employee who is providing services to the CCE Other Businesses and on international assignment from a North American Business Entity, and in each case, such employee's employer and the entity or business unit to which such employee is providing services as of the date of this Agreement.
(b) No later than August 1, 2010, TCCC shall notify CCE of the actions, if any, that CCE should take to facilitate the transfer of the employment, or the continuation of the international assignment, of the individuals set forth on Schedule 2.2 who are providing services as of the date of this Agreement to the North American Business.
 
(a) CCE shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, take all actions necessary or desirable such that, effective no later than the Effective Time, (i) Splitco or one of its Subsidiaries shall assume sponsorship of, and all of CCE's rights, powers, duties, obligations and Liabilities under and with respect to, all CCE Benefit Plans other than the North American Benefit Plans and (ii) CCE or one of its Subsidiaries (other than Splitco and its Subsidiaries) shall assume sponsorship of, and all of CCE's rights, powers, duties, obligations and Liabilities under and with respect to, all North American Benefit Plans. At the Effective Time, Splitco shall pay to CCE the net amount (, the difference between employee contributions and payments to employees for expenses for the calendar year in which the Effective Time occurs), determined as of the Effective Time, credited to the accounts of the CCE North American Business Employees and, if the Effective Time occurs during 2010, the Transferred CCE North American Employees, in any case, under CCE's Healthcare Reimbursement Account Plan and Dependent Care Reimbursement Account Plan.
i.e.
(b) CCE shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, take all actions necessary or desirable such that, effective no later than the Effective Time, the CCE Other Employees shall, except as specifically provided herein or in the Transition Services Agreement, cease active participation in the North American Benefit Plans and shall accrue no additional benefits thereunder.
 
 
The parties hereto agree that it is intended for purposes of all CCE Benefit Plans (including without limitation, any CCE severance plan, program agreement or arrangement and the CCE Stock Plans), that no CCE North American Employee shall be considered to have incurred a termination of employment or separation from service with CCE or its Subsidiaries solely by virtue of the transfer of such individual's employment pursuant to this Agreement (whether pursuant to Section 2.1, 2.2 or 5.2 of this Agreement or otherwise) and/or the consummation of the Separation Transactions or the other transactions contemplated by the Separation and Merger Agreement or this Agreement.
 
CCE shall retain the obligation for continuation coverage (within the meaning of Section 4980B of the Code) for Former CCE Employees (and their spouses and eligible dependents) who are as of immediately prior to the Effective Time eligible for such coverage pursuant to a CCE Benefit Plan.
 
CCE shall retain the obligation to provide continued long-term disability benefits for any CCE North American Employees and Former CCE Employees who were employed in the North American Business at the time they became eligible for such benefits, in each case, who are receiving such benefits as of the Effective Time. Such long-term disability benefits shall be, with respect to each such CCE North American Employee or Former CCE Employee, substantially comparable in the aggregate to the benefits such individual is receiving as of the Effective Time.
 
From the Effective Time through and including December 31, 2011, TCCC shall, or shall cause its Subsidiaries to, provide to the non-represented CCE North American Employees (i) salary, wages and annual cash bonus opportunities that are substantially comparable in the aggregate to those in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, retaining CCE's pay and bonus structure, salary bands, compensation ranges and target bonus levels within such salary bands, and executive perquisite allowances as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time and (ii) benefits (other than equity-based compensation, which shall be governed solely under Section 3.2, and other employee benefits specifically provided for in this Agreement) that are substantially comparable in the aggregate to the benefits provided to the CCE North American Employees immediately prior to the Effective Time under the North American Benefit Plans listed in Section 4.14(a) of the Seller Disclosure Letter other than the CCE Stock Plans, in each case, subject to the CCE North American Employee's continued
 
employment with TCCC or one of its Affiliates; provided, however, that with respect to the CCE North American Employees set forth on Schedule 2.2, TCCC and, if applicable, its Subsidiaries, shall use their commercially reasonable best efforts to provide such individuals with substantially comparable salary, bonus opportunities, benefits and expatriate allowances in accordance with applicable Laws.
 
(a) CCE shall not grant any equity-based awards to any CCE North American Employee from the date of this Agreement through October 15, 2010, other than equity-based awards made (i) to newly hired employees, within one year following the employee's date of hire, that are in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with CCE's past practice of compensating newly hired employees, (ii) prior to September 1, 2010, to employees to correct administrative errors in the employees' most recent annual equity-based awards, (iii) to a Transferred CCE North American Employee identified to TCCC prior to such grant, or (iv) with the consent of TCCC, which consent shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld. In the event that as of October 15, 2010, the parties reasonably determine that the Effective Time shall not occur prior to December 15, 2010, following consultation with TCCC, CCE may make grants of equity-based awards no later than December 15, 2010, (such grants, collectively, the "CCE 2010 Grant") to CCE North American Employees (excluding for this purpose grants made to Transferred CCE North American Employees who have been identified to TCCC prior to the date of the CCE 2010 Grant) that are in accordance with CCE's past practice and guidelines with respect to annual grants, made most recently in November 2009 to CCE North American Employees; provided, however, that (x) in no event shall the CCE 2010 Grant have an aggregate value as of the grant date (based on a reasonable Black-Scholes valuation or grant date fair value methodology, as applicable, to be agreed between TCCC and CCE) that is greater than the aggregate value as of the grant date of the aggregate annual equity awards made by CCE in November 2009 to CCE North American Employees (excluding for this purpose grants made to Transferred CCE North American Employees who have been identified to TCCC prior to the date of the CCE 2010 Grant), and (y) each award made pursuant to the CCE 2010 Grant shall specify that the transactions contemplated by the Separation and Merger Agreement shall not constitute a "Change in Control" if the Effective Time occurs prior to December 31, 2011; and provided, further, that this sentence shall not limit CCE's ability to make grants of equity-based awards to CCE Other Employees who are not Transferred CCE North American Employees, and to Transferred CCE North American Employees who have been identified to TCCC prior to the date of the CCE 2010 Grant.
(b) At such time after the Effective Time as TCCC makes its regular annual equity awards to its employees in 2011 and no later than June 30, 2011, TCCC shall provide equity-based awards to CCE North American Employees who hold a position in the Senior Management Broad Band or above (or a comparable TCCC position) having a substantially comparable value in the aggregate, for a comparable number of employees, as of the date of grant (based on a reasonable Black-Scholes value for stock option grants and based on the grant date fair value for whole share-based awards) as awarded by CCE to its employees providing services to the North American
 
Business in November 2009 (excluding for this purpose grants made to Transferred CCE North American Employees), with such grant made in a manner consistent with CCE's target award levels, award ranges, and performance adjustment criteria employed in such November 2009 annual equity grant by CCE; provided, however, that (i) TCCC shall have no obligation to replicate the form of award or the terms and conditions of awards granted under CCE Stock Plans, including without limitation the number of shares to be subject to such TCCC equity awards and the vesting conditions and exercise or purchase price of such TCCC equity awards and (ii) TCCC shall not be obligated to make such 2011 equity-based awards to CCE North American Employees if CCE shall have made the CCE 2010 Grant.
(c) Provided that the Effective Time occurs prior to December 31, 2010, the CCE performance share units granted in 2007 and any other CCE equity award with performance criteria based on growth in earnings per share ("EPS") for the period 2008-2010, and CCE performance share awards having a performance goal relating to EPS achieved by CCE for the year 2010, in any case, held by CCE North American Employees and former CCE North American Employees (the "2010 EPS Awards") shall be eligible to satisfy such EPS performance goals with respect to the year 2010 only as provided in Schedule 3.2(c). It is expressly understood and agreed between the parties that the time-based vesting provisions of the 2010 EPS Awards shall not be modified in any way by this Section 3.2.
 
In the event that the Effective Time occurs during 2010, annual cash incentive compensation for the CCE North American Employees with respect to the year 2010 shall be determined in accordance with CCE's 2010 annual bonus program (the "2010 CCE Annual Bonus Program"). The 2010 CCE Annual Bonus Program shall be adopted by CCE in accordance with its past practice, except that such program shall (i) use as a performance measure the 2010 definition of "operating income" set forth on Schedule 3.3 hereto, (ii) include provisions for adjustments of applicable performance goals upon consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Separation and Merger Agreement, with specific adjustments, including for costs and expenses related to the transactions, to be mutually agreed between TCCC and CCE, and (iii) provide that for CCE North American Employees whose performance measure relates to corporate-wide performance, the annual bonus shall be determined based on corporate-wide performance for the pro rata portion of the bonus relating to the period before the Effective Time, and the performance of the North American Business (excluding the Corporate Segment) for the pro rata portion of the bonus relating to the period after the Effective Time.
 
(a) CCE shall be responsible for the severance costs, if any, of any CCE North American Employee arising on and after the Effective Time. CCE shall maintain CCE's Executive Severance Plan for not less than 24 months following the Effective Time, in accordance with the terms of such plan in effect as of the date of this Agreement. CCE shall not expand the positions eligible for participation in the CCE
 
Executive Severance Plan without the consent of TCCC. For those CCE North American Employees who are not eligible to participate in CCE's Executive Severance Plan under the terms of such plan in effect as of the date of this Agreement, TCCC and its Subsidiaries (including but not limited to CCE and the North American Business Subsidiaries) shall pay to any such CCE North American Employee whose position is eligible for benefits under the CCE Employee Severance Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement, and whose employment is terminated following the Effective Time through and including December 31, 2011, severance benefits that are substantially comparable to those that would have been provided under the CCE Employee Severance Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
(b) Splitco shall be responsible for the severance costs, if any, of all CCE Other Employees on and after the Effective Time, whether the applicable termination of employment occurs prior to, as of or following the Effective Time.
 
From the Effective Time through and including December 31, 2011, TCCC shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries (including but not limited to CCE and the North American Business Subsidiaries) to provide retiree medical benefits to (i) Former CCE Employees (and their eligible spouses and dependents, as applicable) who are as of immediately prior to the Effective Time receiving retiree medical benefits under a CCE Benefit Plan maintained for the benefit of retired CCE North American Employees and (ii) CCE Other Employees who are immediately prior to the Effective Time eligible for such retiree medical benefits under such plans and who elect to receive such benefits immediately following the Effective Time, which benefits shall be substantially comparable to the level of coverage in effect as of the date of this Agreement; provided, that TCCC may increase premiums, co-payments and deductibles at any time and from time to time with respect to retiree medical benefits consistent with CCE's past practices and the rate of inflation with respect to the cost of providing health care. Any CCE Other Employee who is not immediately prior to the Effective Time eligible for retiree medical benefits under a CCE Benefit Plan shall not at any time later become eligible for benefits under any CCE or TCCC retiree medical plan, policy, program or arrangement.
 
CCE shall implement the changes to the CCE Employees' Pension Plan that were approved by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of CCE's Board of Directors on September 1, 2009, in accordance with such approvals, to be effective January 1, 2011. CCE shall consult with TCCC on all plan details and implementation of such changes as so approved on September 1, 2009. The terms of such amended plan shall be subject to TCCC's input, and TCCC shall not unreasonably delay discussions regarding such terms. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in no event shall any amendment to the CCE Employees' Pension Plan contemplated by this Section 3.6 limit CCE's or TCCC's right to amend or modify such plan in any way after December 31, 2011, except to the extent that such limit applies solely as a result of applicable Laws.
 
 
To the extent that a CCE North American Employee commences participation in an employee benefit plan, program or arrangement maintained by TCCC or any TCCC Subsidiary (an "Applicable TCCC Plan") following the Effective Time, TCCC shall, or shall cause CCE or the North American Business Subsidiaries and the Applicable TCCC Plan to:
(a) credit each CCE North American Employee's service with CCE or any predecessor to CCE, to the extent credited under the analogous North American Benefit Plan as of the Effective Time, as service with TCCC for purposes of eligibility and vesting, and for purposes of determining benefits under applicable vacation programs and service awards; and provided, however, that such service credit shall be subject to the applicable terms of any employment agreement;
(b) in the case of insured arrangements, use its reasonable best efforts to cause its third-party insurance providers to, and in the case of self-insured arrangements, cause any and all pre-existing condition limitations, eligibility waiting periods, active employment requirements and requirements to show evidence of good health under such Applicable TCCC Plan, to the extent that such conditions, exclusions and waiting periods would have been waived or satisfied under the analogous North American Benefit Plan in which such CCE North American Employee participated immediately prior to the Effective Time, to be waived in the plan year in which the Effective Time occurs with respect to such CCE North American Employee (and such individual's spouse and eligible dependents) who become participants in such Applicable TCCC Plan; and
(c) give credit for or otherwise take into account under such Applicable TCCC Plan the out-of-pocket expenses and annual expense limitation amounts paid by each CCE North American Employee under the analogous North American Benefit Plan for the plan year in which the Effective Time occurs.
In no event shall any CCE North American Employee be entitled to credit for service with CCE or any predecessor to CCE (x) for purposes of determining the level of benefits provided under any Applicable TCCC Plan not specified under clause (a) of this Section 3.7 or (y) under TCCC's tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan, for purposes of (1) determining years of service or (2) recognition of compensation unless, for purposes of this clause (2), such CCE North American Employee was as of December 31, 2009 eligible for recognition of compensation under such plan.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the terms and conditions of the employment of CCE North American Employees covered by
 
a collective bargaining Contract shall continue in accordance with the terms of such collective bargaining Contract, and TCCC shall not be required to take, or to cause any of its Subsidiaries to take, any action that would violate or breach the terms of any collective bargaining Contract.
 
Prior to the Effective Time, CCE and Splitco shall use commercially reasonable efforts to fulfill the necessary requirements of each jurisdiction in which the Other CCE Businesses operate with respect to workers' compensation insurance, including posting surety bonds or purchasing insurance policies and shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain a release of CCE and any North American Business Subsidiary from any and all obligations in respect of workers' compensation insurance relating to the Other CCE Businesses.
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting (a) TCCC and its Affiliates (including but not limited to, CCE and the North American Business Subsidiaries following the Effective Time) from terminating the employment of any CCE North American Employee or (b) Splitco and its Affiliates from terminating the employment of any CCE Other Employee, in any case, at any time following the Effective Time and for any or no reason.
 
Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, nothing contained in this Agreement shall (i) be construed to establish, amend or modify any benefit plan, program or arrangement, or (ii) alter or limit the ability of TCCC, CCE, any North American Business Subsidiary, Splitco or any of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates, whether prior to, as of or following the Effective Time, to amend, modify or terminate any benefit plan, program, agreement or arrangement at any time assumed, established, sponsored or maintained by any of them, in accordance with the terms of such plan, program, agreement or arrangement and applicable Laws. Without limiting in any way the generality of the foregoing, TCCC shall not be obligated to continue the CCE Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
 
Without limiting the generality of any provision in this Agreement or the Separation and Merger Agreement, each of TCCC, CCE and Splitco shall cooperate with the other parties hereto in establishing as soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, protocols for communications with the CCE North American Employees concerning the nature of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the Separation and Merger Agreement, including without limitation communications with respect to job applications, transfers of employment and the effect of the Separation Transactions and the Merger on employee benefits; provided, that, such protocols shall not limit CCE's
 
and Splitco's ability to communicate with CCE North American Headquarters Employees concerning transfers of employment and other matters relating to becoming Transferred CCE North American Employees.
 
The treatment of outstanding equity previously granted under the CCE Stock Plans shall be governed by the Separation and Merger Agreement and Section 3.2 of this Agreement.
 
(a) All required contributions to North American Benefit Plans that are defined contribution plans, with respect to employee deferrals and contributions, matching contributions and other contributions for CCE Employees in respect of all periods through the Effective Time, determined in accordance with the terms and provisions of the relevant North American Benefit Plan, ERISA, and the Code, shall be paid by CCE or the relevant Subsidiary of CCE (including without limitation Splitco and its Subsidiaries). Any such contributions that are not made prior to the Effective Time shall be paid to TCCC no later than 15 days following the Effective Time.
(b) On the Closing Date, TCCC shall pay to CCE (i) the amount specified in Section 4.05 of the Tax Sharing Agreement in respect of the amount of the aggregate 2009 contribution that CCE made to the CCE tax-qualified or registered defined benefit pension plans that are not "multiemployer plans" within the meaning of Section 3(37) of ERISA (the "Section 3.14 Pension Plans") (ii) the amount set forth in Schedule 3.14(b). TCCC agrees that CCE shall not be required to fund any contribution to the Section 3.14 Pension Plans after December 31, 2009 and prior to the Effective Time or the termination of this Agreement. Accordingly, if the Effective Time shall not have occurred prior to the time CCE is required to make such contributions (or if CCE shall with TCCC's prior written consent make a contribution earlier than as required), the amount specified in Section 4.05 of the Tax Sharing Agreement shall be adjusted, as provided in Section 4.05 of the Tax Sharing Agreement, to account for such contributions. Payments under this Section 3.14(b) shall be made or deemed made in the manner set forth in Paragraph 7 of Schedule A of the Separation and Merger Agreement.
less
 
Prior to the Effective Time, CCE shall cause Splitco to assume and become obligated for all liabilities and obligations under the CCE Executive Pension Plan, Supplemental Pension Plan, and Supplemental MESIP with respect to the Transferred CCE North American Employees and the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors with respect to directors and former directors of CCE (such benefits
 
under such plans, the "Transferred Nonqualified Plan Benefits"). CCE shall cause the assets held by the Amended and Restated CCE Supplemental Matched Employee Savings and Investment Plan Rabbi Trust that have been allocated to the Transferred CCE North American Employees in accordance with their hypothetical investment elections with respect to the Supplemental MESIP as of immediately prior to the Effective Time to be transferred, on an account-by-account basis, to a grantor trust established by Splitco.
 
CCE shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, take all actions necessary such that, effective no later than the date of this Agreement, and for the period from the date of this Agreement until the Effective Time, no Supplemental MESIP participant shall be permitted to (i) newly elect a hypothetical investment in the CCE stock fund or the TCCC stock fund under the Supplemental MESIP or (ii) modify such Supplemental MESIP participant's investment elections as of the date of this Agreement to increase amounts hypothetically invested in the CCE stock fund or the TCCC stock fund.
 
Without the prior written consent of TCCC (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned), CCE shall not, and shall cause its Subsidiaries and Affiliates not to, directly or indirectly, take, authorize or enter into any agreement or commitment to take any of the following actions with respect to the North American Business Entities or the North American Business:
(a) increase the rate of compensation of, or pay or agree to pay any benefit to, any CCE North American Employee, except as may be required to comply with applicable Laws or by any existing plan, including any CCE Benefit Plan, agreement or arrangement, and except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, including as part of CCE's or the North American Business Subsidiaries' normal periodic performance reviews and related salary increases;
(b) enter into, adopt or amend (i) any North American Benefit Plan or any other employee compensatory program, policy or arrangement with respect to the CCE North American Employees (including any employment agreement (not terminable at will) or severance or change of control agreement with a CCE North American Employee other than an agreement between Splitco or a Splitco Subsidiary and a Transferred CCE North American Employee for which Splitco or a Splitco Subsidiary is fully liable) or (ii) any CCE Benefit Plan for which any North American Business Entity could be liable following the Effective Time, except (A) as required by Laws, (B) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (C) with respect to an
 
agreement between an Other CCE Businesses Entity and a Transferred CCE North American Employee, or (D) as specifically contemplated by this Agreement; provided, however, that in no event shall any action be taken that would (1) amend any North American Benefit Plan or CCE Benefit Plan to provide a CCE North American Employee with a "gross-up" for any federal, state, local, income, excise or other Tax, (2) amend the CCE Employees' Pension Plan in any way inconsistent with the terms approved by CCE's Board of Directors on September 1, 2009 or (3) expand the positions eligible for participation in any North American Benefit Plan or any other employee compensatory program, policy or arrangement with respect to the CCE North American Employees.
(c) except (i) as contemplated hereby with respect to Transferred CCE North American Employees and (ii) with respect to CCE Employees who are listed on Schedule 2.2, change the duties of any CCE North American Employee such that the employee would no longer be a CCE North American Employee, or change the duties of any employee who is not currently a CCE North American Employee such that the employee would become a CCE North American Employee;
(d) terminate the employment of any CCE North American Employee (i) whose position is as of the date of this Agreement at Business Unit/Functional Leadership Broad Band or above or (ii) who is within 60 days following the date of this Agreement mutually agreed by TCCC and CCE to be a key CCE North American Employee (collectively, the "Key CCE Employees"); provided, however, that CCE may terminate the employment of a Key CCE Employee who (x) violates CCE's Code of Business Conduct or (y) has, prior to the date of this Agreement, been given notice by CCE of an involuntary termination of employment;
(e) enter into any Contract with respect to any CCE Benefit Plan (including, without limitation, contracts for the provision of services to such CCE Benefit Plan) having a term of greater than one year or providing for payments by CCE having a value, estimated as of the date of such Contract, of greater than $5 million; or
(f) implement any layoffs that would trigger the notice requirements of the WARN Act without complying with the WARN Act.
 
(a) Following the date of this Agreement until the Effective Time, CCE shall have the discretion to select which of the CCE North American Headquarters Employees it shall solicit to be Transferred CCE North American Employees. Following the date of this Agreement until the Effective Time, without the prior written consent of TCCC, none of CCE, Splitco or any of their respective Subsidiaries shall solicit for employment with Splitco or any Splitco Subsidiary any CCE North American Employee other than a CCE North American Headquarters Employee.
(b) No later than August 1, 2010, CCE shall provide to TCCC a schedule setting forth the names of each CCE North American Headquarters Employee who CCE has determined it shall not solicit to be a Transferred CCE North American
 
Employee. TCCC shall be permitted to contact any such CCE North American Headquarters Employee with respect to employment with TCCC and its Subsidiaries to be effective as of the Effective Time.
 
From the Effective Time until December 31, 2011, Splitco shall not, without the express written consent of TCCC, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, solicit for employment with Splitco or any Splitco Subsidiary any person (a) who is an employee of TCCC or CCE (or their respective Subsidiaries) or (b) who is a former employee of TCCC or CCE (or their respective Subsidiaries) whose employment is terminated at any time after the date of this Agreement, during the first 60 days following such termination of employment, or, in any case, in any way interfere with the relationship between TCCC or CCE or any of their respective Subsidiaries and any such person. From the Effective Time until December 31, 2011, TCCC shall not, without the express written consent of Splitco, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, solicit for employment with TCCC or any TCCC Subsidiary any person (a) who is an employee of Splitco or any Splitco Subsidiary or (b) who is a former employee of Splitco or any Splitco Subidiary whose employment is terminated at any time after the date of this Agreement, during the first 60 days following such termination of employment, or, in any case, in any way interfere with the relationship between Splitco or a Splitco Subsidiary and any such person. The foregoing restrictions shall not apply to any person whose employment with TCCC, CCE or Splitco (or their respective Subsidiaries), as applicable, terminates involuntarily, and shall not apply to general solicitations or advertisements not specifically directed to employees of TCCC, CCE, Splitco or their respective Subsidiaries, as applicable, or solicitations by search firms or other similar entities that have not been instructed to solicit such employees.
 
CCE shall not, and shall cause its Subsidiaries not to, execute, adopt, amend or terminate any collective bargaining Contract without TCCC's consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, unless such execution, amendment, adoption or termination (i) relates solely to CCE Other Employees, (ii) results in increased costs over the prior collective bargaining Contract of $5 million or less per 12-month period, or (iii) does not involve the implementation of a new or new participation in a defined benefit pension plan, retiree medical plan, multiemployer pension or welfare plan or severance plan or program. At TCCC's request, CCE shall provide periodic updates with respect to the negotiation, execution, adoption, amendment or termination of any collective bargaining Contract.
 
 
CCE shall honor, and satisfy all of its obligations under, the collective bargaining Contracts by which it is bound.
 
On or following the date of this Agreement, CCE shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, notify each union or similar organization representing CCE North American Employees of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Separation and Merger Agreement as required by Laws or any existing collective bargaining Contract.
 
Section 1.3 and Article X of the Separation and Merger Agreement are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Subject to applicable Laws, CCE shall transfer to Splitco any and all employment and employee benefit records and information (including, but not limited to, Forms W-2 or other Internal Revenue Service forms, any Forms I-9 or personnel records) with respect to Transferred CCE North American Employees and CCE Other Employees and other records reasonably required by Splitco to enable Splitco to properly carry out its obligations under this Agreement. Such transfer of records and information shall generally occur as soon as administratively practicable following (a) the date hereof or (b) with respect to records and information that are relevant to services provided in the Transition Services Agreement, the date upon which the provision of those services terminates. After the transfer of those records to Splitco, Splitco shall permit CCE and its Affiliates to have reasonable access to such records and such information.
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Transition Services Agreements or as otherwise expressly provided herein, neither party shall have any responsibility for providing services to the other party with respect to employee or benefit plan matters after the Effective Time.
 
 
If the Effective Time does not occur, then all actions required to be taken under this Agreement shall not be taken except to the extent determined by the party required by this Agreement to take such action. This Agreement shall automatically terminate without any action being required by any party hereto in the event that the Separation and Merger Agreement is terminated prior to consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, in which event this Agreement shall become null and void and of no further force or effect. Any termination of this Agreement shall not be deemed to release and shall not relieve any party hereto from any liability for fraud or any intentional and material breach of this Agreement occurring on or prior to such termination.
 
This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts (including by facsimile), each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
 
The parties have caused this Agreement to be signed by their authorized representatives as of the date first set forth in this Agreement.
 
 
 
[INSERT RECIPIENT NAME + TITLE]
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. / Splitco
2500 Windy Hill Parkway
Atlanta, Georgia 30339
Gentlemen:
Reference is made to the Bottler's Agreement entered into among The Coca-Cola Company, The Coca-Cola Export Corporation and you with an effective date of [INSERT], 2010 (hereinafter referred to as the "Agreement").
We hereby authorize you to use the trademark COCA-COLA in your corporate name: "COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC."
The authorization granted herein will expire automatically upon expiration or termination of the Agreement, and is revocable by us in our absolute discretion, in whole or in part, upon ninety (90) days' written notice. Upon expiration or termination of the Agreement or revocation of this Authorization, Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. shall take any and all affirmative steps to delete "Coca-Cola" from its corporate name and to amend any other reference to "Coca-Cola" in any and all statements or documents including government licenses, registrations or any other records.
Nothing contained herein shall give you any interest in the goodwill derived from the use of the trademark COCA-COLA in your corporate name. It is hereby expressly agreed and understood that there is extended only a permission uncoupled with any interest to use the trademark COCA-COLA, and that we retain the sole and exclusive right to initiate and defend any or all proceedings and actions relating to such trademark.
 
 
 
 
This Transition Services Agreement (this "") is by and between The Coca-Cola Company, a Delaware corporation (""), and International CCE, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""),, and is dated as of [    ], 2010.
TSA
TCCC
Splitco
WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Business Separation and Merger Agreement by and among Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), Splitco, TCCC and Cobalt Subsidiary LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("") dated as of the February [    ], 2010 (the ""), the parties have agreed to enter into this TSA;
CCE
Merger Sub
Merger Agreement
WHEREAS, all capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Merger Agreement; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to this TSA, TCCC shall provide or cause to be provided certain services to the Other CCE Businesses, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises, the terms set forth herein and the Merger Agreement, as well as other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged and accepted, and intending to be legally bound hereby, each of TCCC and Splitco hereby agrees as follows:
1 Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2  Consents
 
 
 
 
3  Charges
 
 
 
 
 
4  Term and Termination
 
 
 
 
 
5  Confidentiality
 
6  Service Separation, Migration & Related Costs
 
 
 
 
7  Indemnification
 
 
 
8  Miscellaneous
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this TSA as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
Jurisdictions:
Great Britain
France (excluding Corsica)
Belgium
Netherlands
Luxembourg
 
 
, made and entered into with effect from             , by and among THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America, with principal offices at One Coca-Cola Plaza, N.W., in the City of Atlanta, State of Georgia 30313, United States of America; THE COCA-COLA EXPORT CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America, with principal offices at One Coca-Cola Plaza, N.W., in the City of Atlanta, State of Georgia 30313, United States of America (The Coca-Cola Company and The Coca-Cola Export Corporation hereinafter collectively or severally referred to as the "Company" unless otherwise specified); and             , a corporation organized and existing under the laws of             , with principal offices at             (hereinafter referred to as the "Bottler").
THIS AGREEMENT
WHEREAS,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The covenants herein contained apply not only to the activities with which the Bottler may be directly concerned, but also to activities with which the Bottler may be indirectly concerned through ownership, control, management, partnership, agreement or otherwise, and whether located within or outside of the Territory.
 
 
 
then the Company shall have the right to terminate this Agreement forthwith without liability for damages unless the third party making such acquisition referred to in subclause (a) hereof or the person, firm or company referred to in subclause (b) hereof shall, on being notified in writing by the Company of its
 
intention to terminate as aforesaid, agrees to discontinue, and shall in fact discontinue, the manufacture, preparation, packaging, distribution or sale of such product(s) within a reasonable period not exceeding six (6) months from the date of notification.
 
 
 
The Bottler shall permit the Company, its officers, agents or designees, at all times to enter and inspect the facilities, equipment and methods used by the Bottler, whether directly or incidentally, in or for the preparation, packaging, storage and handling of the Beverage to ascertain whether the Bottler is complying with the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to Clauses 17, 21 and 34. The Bottler also agrees to provide the Company with all the information regarding Bottler's compliance with the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, Clauses 17, 21 and 34, as the Company may request from time to time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Clause 27, if a proposed change in ownership or control of the Bottler involves a direct or indirect transfer to or acquisition of ownership or control of the Bottler, in whole or in part, by a person or entity authorized by the Company to manufacture, sell, distribute or otherwise deal in any beverage products and/or any Trade Marks of the Company (the "Acquiror Bottler"), the Company may request any and all information it considers relevant from both the Bottler and the Acquiror Bottler in order to make its determination as to whether to consent to such change. In any such circumstances, the parties hereto, recognizing and acknowledging the vested and legitimate interest of the Company in maintaining, promoting and safeguarding the overall performance, efficiency and integrity of the Company's international bottling, distribution and sales system, expressly agree that the Company may consider all and any factors, and apply any criteria that it considers relevant in making such determination.
It is further recognized and agreed among the parties hereto that the Company, in its sole discretion, may withhold consent to any proposed change in ownership or other transaction contemplated in this Clause 27, or may consent subject to such conditions as the Company, in its sole discretion, may determine. The parties hereto expressly stipulate and agree that any violation by the Bottler of the foregoing covenants contained in this Clause 27 shall entitle the Company to terminate this Agreement forthwith without liability for damages; and, furthermore, in view of the personal nature of this Agreement, that the Company shall have the right to terminate this Agreement without liability for damages if
 
any other third party or parties should obtain any direct or indirect interest in the ownership or control of the Bottler, even when the Bottler had no means to prevent such a change, if, in the opinion of the Company, such change either enables such third party or parties to exercise a decisive influence over the management of the Bottler or materially alters the ability of the Bottler to comply fully with the terms, obligations and conditions of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event the Bottler is unable to perform its obligations as a consequence of any of the contingencies set forth in this Clause 30, and for the duration of such inability, the Company and Authorized Suppliers shall be relieved of their respective obligations under Clauses 2 and 5; and provided that, if any such failure by any party shall persist for a period of six (6) months or more, any of the parties hereto may terminate this Agreement without liability for damages.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, The Coca-Cola Company and The Coca-Cola Export Corporation in Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America, and the Bottler in                     , have caused these presents to be executed in triplicate by the duly authorized person or persons on their behalf on the dates indicated below.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

 
Exhibit 2.2
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
This Share Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2010 (the ""), is made by and among Seller, as defined in this Agreement, and Bottling Holdings (Luxembourg) s.a.r.l., a Luxembourg socit  responsabilit limite (or any of its subsidiary assignees permitted by , ""), and the other Persons listed on the signature pages hereto.
Agreement
Section 10.6
Buyer
WHEREAS, Seller owns all of the issued and outstanding: (i) equity securities of Coca-Cola Drikker AS, a company organized under the Laws of Norway (the ""), and (ii) equity securities of Coca-Cola Drycker Sverige AB, a company organized under the Laws of Sweden (the "") (the equity securities in clauses (i) and (ii) the "" and the "," respectively, and collectively, the "");
Norway Company
Sweden Company
Norway Shares
Sweden Shares
Shares
WHEREAS, the Shares constitute all of the issued and outstanding equity securities of the Norway Company and the Sweden Company; and
WHEREAS, Buyer desires to purchase from Seller, and Seller desires to sell to Buyer, the Shares, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement (the "").
Sale
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth herein, as well as other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged and accepted, and intending to be legally bound hereby, each of Seller and Buyer hereby agrees as follows:
1.1 .
Certain Definitions
"" shall mean the applicable accounting period of each of TCCC and CCE (based on accounting policies in effect as of the date hereof) set forth in of the Buyer Disclosure Letter.
Accounting Cycle
Section 1.1(a)
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person. The term "control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by Contract or otherwise, and the terms "controlled" and "controlling" have correlative meanings. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise specifically contemplated by the terms hereof, CCE and its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and TCCC and its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, shall not be considered to be "Affiliates" of one another.
Affiliate
 
"" shall mean the committee of the board of directors of CCE formed pursuant to Article III, Section 1 of the by-laws of CCE.
Affiliated Transaction Committee
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any and all of such Person's right, title and ownership interest in and to all properties, assets, claims, Contracts and businesses of every kind, character and description, whether real, personal or mixed, tangible or intangible, whether accrued, contingent or otherwise, and wherever located (including in the possession of vendors, customers or other third parties or elsewhere), in each case whether or not recorded or reflected on the books and records or financial statements of any Person, including the following: (i) all cash, cash equivalents, notes and accounts receivable (whether current, or non-current); (ii) all certificates of deposit, banker's acceptances and other investment securities of any other form and maturity; (iii) the fee interest in all owned real properties (including all improvements located thereon or contained therein and appurtenances thereto); (iv) the leasehold interest in all leased real properties and all leasehold improvements; (v) all machinery, equipment (including all transportation and office equipment and all improvements leased from any Governmental Entity), fixtures, trade fixtures and furniture; (vi) all office supplies, production supplies, computer hardware, spare parts, other miscellaneous supplies and other tangible property of any kind; (vii) all capital stock, partnership interests and other equity or ownership interests or rights, directly or indirectly, in any Subsidiary or other entity; (viii) all inventories of materials, raw materials, products, works in progress, supplies and other inventories; (ix) all Intellectual Property Rights; (x) all rights existing under all Contracts; (xi) all prepayments, deposits, performance bonds, guarantees, derivative instruments, advances for insurance premiums to the extent they constitute an asset and not a liability of such party; (xii) all claims, causes of action, choses in action, rights to indemnification, judgments, rights of recovery and rights of set-off of any kind; (xiii) all customer lists and records pertaining to customers and accounts, personnel records, all lists and records pertaining to suppliers and agents, and all books, ledgers, files and legal and business records of every kind; (xiv) all advertising materials and all other printed, electronic or written materials, including purchase orders, forms, labels, shipping materials, catalogues, sales brochures, operating manuals, and instructional documents; (xv) all goodwill as a going concern; (xvi) all employee contracts, including the right thereunder to restrict an employee from competing in certain respects; (xvii) all trucks, automobiles and other vehicles; (xviii) all special and general tools, test devices, prototypes, models and any other tangible personal property; (xix) all telephone and facsimile numbers; and (xx) all permits, licenses, registrations, approvals and authorizations of Governmental Entities or third parties relating to the ownership, possession or operation of any of the foregoing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Assets" does not include Tax assets, which are governed by of this Agreement.
Assets
Article XI
"" shall mean each "employee benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), and all other employee benefit plans, programs, agreements, policies, arrangements or payroll practices, including bonus plans, employment, consulting or other compensation agreements, collective bargaining agreements, incentive and other equity or equity-based compensation plans or agreements, deferred compensation arrangements, change in control, termination or severance plans or arrangements, stock purchase, severance pay, sick leave, vacation pay, salary continuation for disability, hospitalization, medical insurance, life insurance
Benefit Plan
 
and scholarship plans and programs maintained by any of the Nordic Companies or to which any of the Nordic Companies contributed or is obligated to contribute thereunder, in each case, for the benefit of employees or former employees or directors or former directors who provide or provided services to a Nordic Company.
"" shall mean a day other than Saturday, Sunday or any other day on which commercial banks located in the State of New York are authorized or required by Law to remain closed.
Business Day
"" shall mean the disclosure letter delivered by Buyer to Seller contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement and dated as of the date hereof.
Buyer Disclosure Letter
"" shall mean Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., a Delaware corporation.
CCE
"" shall mean all actions required to: (1) cleanup, remove, treat or remediate Hazardous Materials in the indoor or outdoor environment; (2) prevent the Release of Hazardous Materials; (3) perform pre-remedial studies and investigations and post-remedial monitoring and care; and (4) respond to any government requests for information or documents in any way relating to cleanup, removal, treatment or remediation or potential cleanup, removal, treatment or remediation of Hazardous Materials in the indoor or outdoor environment.
Cleanup
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" shall mean all Laws that are designed or intended to prohibit, restrict or regulate actions having the purpose or effect of monopolization or restraint of trade or lessening of competition through a merger or acquisition.
Competition Law
"" shall mean those individuals who are employed as officers or employees of any Nordic Company (i) as of the Closing and (ii) solely for the purpose of and at any time between the date of this Agreement and the Closing.
Continuing Employees
Section 6.1
Section 6.15(c)(i)
"" shall mean any contract, subcontract, agreement, commitment, note, bond, mortgage, indenture, lease, sublease, license, sublicense or other instrument, obligation or binding arrangement or understanding of any kind or character (and whether written or oral) and any amendments or supplements thereto, including hedging agreements.
Contract
"" shall mean, with respect to the Nordic Business, for any period, the sum (without duplication) of (i) the aggregate net income (or loss) of the Nordic Companies for such period on a combined basis, determined in accordance with GAAP; and (ii) to the extent such net income has been reduced thereby, (a) all income tax expense of the Nordic Companies for such period, determined on a combined basis determined in accordance with GAAP, (b) the aggregate of the interest expense, net of interest income, of the Nordic Companies for such period determined on a combined basis in accordance with GAAP and (c) the aggregate depreciation and amortization of the Nordic Companies for such period, determined on a combined basis in accordance with GAAP, excluding, in each of the foregoing clauses (a) through (c), non-recurring items and items relating to a prior period. For the purposes of , EBITDA will include the impact of any realized gains or losses on aluminum hedge
EBITDA
Section 2.5
 
contracts with maturity dates from December 2009 through November 2010 held by Seller or its Affiliates on behalf of the Nordic Companies, and will exclude the impact of any realized or unrealized gains or losses on hedge contracts with maturity dates of December 2010 or later. If any additional hedge programs are entered into after the date hereof, the parties will mutually agree on how realized and unrealized gains and losses in respect of such hedge programs will be treated for purposes of (it being agreed that unrealized gains and losses will be generally excluded from EBITDA and realized gains and losses will be included in EBITDA). For purposes of the foregoing, gains and losses are realized when the hedged commodity affects earnings.
Section 2.5
"" shall mean any claim, action, cause of action or written notice by any Person alleging potential liability (including potential liability for investigatory costs, Cleanup costs, governmental response costs, natural resources damages, property damages, personal injuries, or penalties) based on or resulting from (a) the presence, Release or threatened Release of any Hazardous Materials at any location, whether or not owned or operated by the Nordic Companies, or (b) any violation, or alleged violation, of any Environmental Law.
Environmental Claim
"" shall mean all Laws, together with all common law, relating to pollution or protection of the environment or of human health (to the extent relating to exposure to Hazardous Materials), including Laws or common law relating to exposure to or Releases or threatened Releases of Hazardous Materials or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, Release, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials and to recordkeeping, notification, disclosure and reporting requirements respecting Hazardous Materials, and protection of natural resources, including endangered or threatened species of fish, wildlife and plants.
Environmental Laws
"" shall mean all equipment, fixtures, fittings, machinery, appliances, apparatus, inventory, materials, spare parts, supplies, tools and other tangible personal property.
Equipment
"" shall mean leases relating solely to Equipment.
Equipment Leases
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
"" shall mean an event that finally and conclusively establishes the amount of any liability for Tax.
Final Determination
"" shall mean the United States generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied; that with respect to the audited financial statements of the Norway Company and the Sweden Company and the Sweden Subsidiary for the year ended December 31, 2008 referred to in , GAAP shall mean the generally accepted accounting principles in the relevant jurisdiction of each of the Norway Company, the Sweden Company and the Sweden Subsidiary, in each case consistently applied.
GAAP
provided
Section 4.6(a)
"" shall mean any Federal, state, local or foreign government, any multinational quasi-governmental authority, any court, administrative, regulatory or other governmental agency, commission or authority, any non-governmental self-regulatory agency, commission or authority, including domestic or foreign stock exchanges and securities regulatory bodies, and any arbitration tribunal.
Governmental Entity
 
 
"" shall mean the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of the type described in clause (i), (ii) and (viii) of the definition of "Indebtedness" calculated in accordance with GAAP (as applied in preparing TCCC's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009), including the current portion of any such Indebtedness, but excluding (i) any Intercompany Indebtedness, (ii) Guarantees, (iii) amounts outstanding under Guarantees and (iv) undrawn letters of credit.
Gross Indebtedness
"" shall mean all substances defined as Hazardous Substances, Oils, Pollutants or Contaminants in the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan, 40 C.F.R.  300.5, or defined as such by, or regulated as such under, any Environmental Law, including any petroleum or petroleum products, by-products or derivatives, radioactive materials, chlorofluorocarbon, hydrochlorofluorocarbon, radon, toxic mold, and asbestos or asbestos-containing materials or polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs").
Hazardous Materials
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, at a particular time, without duplication, (i) any obligations of such Person under any indebtedness for borrowed money whether secured or unsecured, (ii) any indebtedness of such Person evidenced by any note, bond, debenture or other similar debt instruments, (iii) any written commitment by which such Person assures a creditor against loss (including contingent reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit), (iv) any indebtedness of such Person pursuant to a guarantee of indebtedness or payables or other obligations with the same effect to a creditor of another Person, (v) any borrowing of money secured by a Lien on such Person's assets, (vi) any obligation outstanding as of the Closing for interest, premiums, penalties, fees, make-whole payments, expenses, indemnities, breakage costs and bank overdrafts with respect to items described in clauses (i) through (v) above, (vii) all obligations of such Person for the deferred and unpaid purchase price associated with acquisitions or divestments (other than trade payables and accrued expenses incurred in the ordinary course of business), (viii) capitalized leases (in accordance with GAAP, as consistently applied by such Person) and (ix) all indebtedness of others referred to above which is directly or indirectly guaranteed by such Person or which such Person has agreed (contingently or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire or in respect of which it has otherwise assured a creditor against loss including through the grant of a security interest upon any assets of such Person.
Indebtedness
"" shall mean all intellectual property and industrial property rights of any kind or nature, including all United States and foreign (i) patents, patent applications, and all related continuations, continuations-in-part, divisionals, reissues and extensions thereof, (ii) trademarks, service marks, brand names, trade dress, domain names, and other similar designations of source or origin, together with the goodwill symbolized by any of the foregoing (""), (iii) copyrights and copyrightable subject matter, (iv) rights in computer programs (whether in source code, object code, or other form), algorithms, databases, compilations and data, and all documentation, including user manuals and training materials, related to any of the foregoing, (v) trade secrets and all other confidential information, know-how, inventions, proprietary processes, formulae, models, and methodologies, (vi) rights of publicity and privacy, (vii) moral rights and rights of attribution and integrity, (viii) all rights in the foregoing and in other similar intangible assets and (ix) all applications and registrations for the foregoing.
Intellectual Property Rights
Trademarks
 
 
"" shall mean all Contracts (including Contracts in respect of Intercompany Indebtedness) to which Seller and its Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies), on the one hand, and one or more of the Nordic Companies, on the other hand, are a party.
Intercompany Agreements
"" shall mean, without duplication, (a) the aggregate principal amount of all indebtedness for borrowed money, including all indebtedness evidenced by a note, bond, debenture or similar instrument, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, and (b) all accounts or notes payable, in each case, between Seller or any of its Affiliates or Subsidiaries (other than the Nordic Companies), on the one hand, and the Nordic Companies, on the other hand.
Intercompany Indebtedness
"" shall mean, with respect to any matter in question, the actual knowledge of each individual set forth in of the Buyer Disclosure Letter.
Knowledge of Buyer
Section 1.1(b)
"" shall mean, with respect to any matter in question, the actual knowledge of each individual set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter.
Knowledge of Seller
Section 1.1(a)
"" shall mean any real property leased or subleased, or any other rights to use or occupy any land, buildings, structures, improvements, fixtures or other interest in real property held by the Nordic Companies, primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the Nordic Business (excluding for the avoidance of doubt, owned real property).
Leased Real Property
"" shall mean any and all Indebtedness, liabilities and obligations whether accrued or fixed, known or unknown, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, or determined or determinable of any kind or nature whatsoever, including those arising under any Laws or Action, whether asserted or unasserted, or order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree, stipulation, determination or award entered by or with any Governmental Entity, and those arising under any Contract or any fines, Losses or equitable relief which may be imposed in connection with any of the foregoing and including all costs and expenses related thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Liabilities" does not include Tax liabilities, which are governed by of this Agreement.
Liabilities
Article XI
"" shall mean any lien, pledge, hypothecation, charge, mortgage, security interest, lease, sublease, license, easement, covenant, right of first refusal, pre-emptive right, transfer restriction, encumbrance or claim on or with respect to any asset or property. For purposes of this Agreement (and without limiting the foregoing), a Person shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any property or asset that it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such property or asset.
Lien
"" shall mean any change, effect, event, occurrence, development, condition or circumstance that, individually or in the aggregate with all other adverse changes, effects, events, occurrences, developments, conditions or circumstances, is, or
Material Adverse Effect
 
would reasonably be expected to be, materially adverse to the condition (financial or otherwise), properties, assets, Liabilities, business or results of operations of the Nordic Business or the Nordic Companies, in each case, taken as a whole, other than any change, effect, event, occurrence, development, condition or circumstance resulting from, or relating to, (i) changes in the economy or financial markets generally in Norway or Sweden; (ii) the industry in which the Nordic Business operates in general; (iii) the execution, announcement or performance of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, including any communication by CCE or Buyer regarding plans or intentions with respect to the Nordic Business; (iv) changes in law after the date of this Agreement, including, amendment, modification or adoption of any Tax Law; (v) changes in GAAP or other applicable accounting standards or the interpretations thereof after the date of this Agreement; (vi) acts of God or other calamities, national or international political or social conditions in or affecting any of the countries in which the Nordic Business operates, including the engagement by any such country in hostilities, whether commenced before or after the date hereof, and whether or not pursuant to the declaration of a national emergency or war, or the occurrence of any military or terrorist attack; (vii) any actions taken, or failures to take action, or such other changes or events, in each case, to which Buyer has consented in advance in writing; (viii) any failure to meet internal projections or plans, public estimates or expectations relating to the Nordic Companies or the Nordic Business (it being understood that the underlying causes of, or factors contributing to, the failure to meet such projections or plans, estimates or expectations may be taken into account in determining whether a Material Adverse Effect has occurred); and (ix) the failure to obtain consent under any Contracts set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter or Permits that require consent of the other party or a Governmental Entity as a result of the Transactions; in the case of clauses (i), (ii), (iv), (v) or (vi) if such change, effect, event, occurrence, development, condition or circumstance does not disproportionately adversely affect the Nordic Business or the Nordic Companies.
Section 4.5(a)
"" shall mean the marketing, production and distribution of non-alcoholic beverages in the Territory by the Nordic Companies.
Nordic Business
"" shall mean all right, title and interest, as of the Closing, of the Nordic Companies in all Assets primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the Nordic Business, including:
Nordic Business Assets
(i) the Owned Real Property;
(ii) the leasehold interests in the Leased Real Property;
(iii) all Equipment (including Equipment held under Equipment Leases) primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the Nordic Business;
(iv) the Intellectual Property Rights owned by the Nordic Companies and primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the Nordic Business, together with all rights and remedies against past, present and future infringement, misappropriation or other violation thereof;
 
 
(v) all Contracts to which any of the Nordic Companies is party or by which any of the Nordic Business Assets is subject, in each case that relate primarily to or are used primarily in the operation of the Nordic Business;
(vi) if and to the extent transferable, the Product Registrations owned, utilized or licensed by the Nordic Companies relating primarily to the products sold by the Nordic Business;
(vii) all Permits owned, used or licensed by the Nordic Companies relating primarily to or used primarily in the operation of the Nordic Business;
(viii) all Records in the possession of the Nordic Companies relating primarily to or used primarily in the operation of the Nordic Business;
(ix) all inventories of raw materials, work-in-process, finished products and office and other supplies primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the Nordic Business;
(x) all prepaid expenses, deferred charges, advance payments, security deposits and other prepaid items primarily used or primarily held for use in the operation of the Nordic Business;
(xi) all Assets reflected on the balance sheets of the Nordic Companies for the year ended December 31, 2009 (subject to any increases, decreases or dispositions thereof as may occur from December 31, 2009 to the Closing, as contemplated by this Agreement or not in violation of );
Section 6.1
(xii) all the Nordic Business Policies and all rights of any nature with respect thereto, including all insurance recoveries thereunder and rights to assert claims with respect to any such insurance recoveries, subject to ;
Section 3.7
(xiii) all accounts, notes and other receivables to the extent arising out of the operation of the Nordic Business;
(xiv) all intercompany accounts, notes or receivables, as of the Closing, for amounts due and owing solely among or between Seller and its Affiliates or Subsidiaries (other than the Nordic Companies), on the one hand, and any of the Nordic Companies, on the other hand;
(xv) all rights and claims of the Nordic Companies under any confidentiality agreement or similar document entered into by the Nordic Companies with third Persons primarily relating to the Nordic Business;
(xvi) all rights, claims and credits to the extent primarily relating to any of the foregoing, or any Nordic Business Liability, including all rights to indemnification to the extent primarily arising out of the operation of the Nordic Business and all rights in and to products sold or leased (including products returned after the Closing and rights of rescission, replevin and reclamation) in the operation or conduct of the Nordic Business;
 
 
(xvii) all hedge contracts relating to the Nordic Business;
(xviii) the outstanding capital stock, units or other equity interests of the Sweden Subsidiary; and
(xix) any other Assets of the Nordic Companies owned, leased or licensed and primarily relating to or primarily used in the operation of the Nordic Business, if and to the extent that such Assets are not referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this definition.
"" shall mean all Policies which are owned by Seller or its Affiliates or Subsidiaries prior to the Closing that provide coverage solely in respect of the Nordic Business.
Nordic Business Policies
"" shall mean any and all Liabilities arising out of the operation or conduct of the Nordic Business or the ownership of the Nordic Business Assets prior to or following the Closing.
Nordic Business Liabilities
"" shall mean the Norway Company, the Sweden Company and the Sweden Subsidiary.
Nordic Companies
"" shall mean, with respect to the Norway Company, as of the Closing the amount equal to its (i) current assets determined in accordance with GAAP (as applied by the Nordic Business as of the date hereof) consistently applied but including and/or excluding the items specified on the Norway Statement of Net Working Capital attached hereto as , minus (ii) current liabilities determined in accordance with GAAP (as applied by the Nordic Business as of the date hereof) consistently applied but including and/or excluding the items specified on the Norway Statement of Net Working Capital attached hereto as .
Norway Net Working Capital
Schedule A
Schedule A
"" shall mean NOK (-130,424,225). The Norway Target Net Working Capital is subject to adjustment by mutual agreement of the parties in the event of a material change in the working capital needs of the Norway Company arising from changes in the revenues thereof of more than 10% of the revenue in the same period in the prior year during the period between the first day of the fiscal month after the date hereof and the Closing.
Norway Target Net Working Capital
"" shall mean all land, together with all buildings, structures, improvements and fixtures located thereon, and all easements and other rights and interests appurtenant thereto owned by any of the Nordic Companies, primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the Nordic Business (excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, leased real property).
Owned Real Property
"" shall mean (i) Liens imposed by Law such as mechanics', carriers', workmen's, repairmen's, contractors, warehousemen, carriers or similar Liens arising or incurred in the ordinary course of business with respect to liabilities that are not yet due; (ii) Liens for Taxes, assessments and other governmental charges which are not due and payable or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceeding, in either case, and for which adequate reserves have been made in the Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP,
Permitted Liens
 
consistently applied; (iii) Liens to secure the payment of all or any part of the price of acquisition, construction or improvement of property by the Nordic Companies, or to secure any secured debt incurred by the Nordic Companies, for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof or construction of improvements thereon; and (iv) any Lien (other than a Lien to secure borrowed money) that does not (A) materially interfere with the use or ownership of the property to which they relate in the operation of the Nordic Business as operated on the date hereof or (B) detract materially from the value of such assets.
"" shall mean an individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, joint stock company, unincorporated organization or association, trust or joint venture, or a Governmental Entity.
Person
"" or "" shall mean insurance policies and insurance contracts of any kind, including primary, excess and umbrella, comprehensive general liability, directors and officers, automobile, products, workers' compensation, employee dishonesty, property and crime insurance policies and self-insurance and captive insurance company arrangements, together with the rights, benefits and privileges thereunder.
Policies
Policy
"" shall mean any taxable year or other taxable period beginning after the Closing Date and, in the case of any taxable year or other taxable period that begins on or before and ends after the Closing Date, that part of the taxable year or other taxable period that begins at the beginning of the day after the Closing Date.
Post-Closing Period
"" shall mean any taxable year or other taxable period that ends on or before the Closing Date and, in the case of any taxable year or other taxable period that begins on or before and ends after the Closing Date, that part of the taxable year or other taxable period through the close of the Closing Date.
Pre-Closing Period
"" shall mean all registrations of products of the Nordic Companies existing at the Closing, made or filed with any Governmental Entity under applicable Laws.
Product Registrations
"" shall mean all Leased Real Property and Owned Real Property.
Real Property
"" shall mean all leases, subleases, licenses, concessions and other Contracts pursuant to which any of the Nordic Companies holds, uses or occupies, or has the right to hold, use or occupy, any Leased Real Property, including the right to all security deposits and other amounts and instruments deposited by or on behalf of any of the Nordic Companies thereunder.
Real Property Leases
"" shall mean any release, spill, emission, discharge, leaking, pumping, injection, deposit, disposal, dispersal or leaching into the environment (including ambient air, indoor air, surface water, groundwater and surface or subsurface strata) of any Hazardous Materials.
Release
"" shall mean a Person's officers, directors, employees, agents, accountants, counsel, advisors, financing sources and other representatives.
Representatives
 
 
"" shall mean a direct or indirect Subsidiary of TCCC to become a party to this Agreement prior to the Closing and which will own the Shares on the Closing Date, provided that until such time as such Person becomes a party to this Agreement by executing a joinder, TCCC shall be deemed to be the Seller for purposes of this Agreement (provided, further, that the representations and warranties in and shall not be deemed to be made in respect of such Subsidiary until such time as such Subsidiary shall become a party to this agreement by executing a joinder, in which case such representations and warranties shall be made in respect of such Subsidiary as of such time and as of the Closing, as applicable).
Seller
Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4(g)
4.5
"" shall mean the disclosure letter delivered to Buyer contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement and dated as of the date hereof.
Seller Disclosure Letter
"" shall mean, when used with respect to any Person, as of any date of determination, (a) the amount of the "fair saleable value" of the assets of such Person shall, as of such date, exceed the value of all "liabilities of such Person and its Subsidiaries, including contingent and other liabilities," as of such date, as such quoted terms are generally determined in accordance with applicable laws governing determinations of the insolvency of debtors, (b) such Person and its Subsidiaries shall not have, as of such date, an unreasonably small amount of capital for the operation of the businesses in which it is engaged following such date, and (c) such Person and its Subsidiaries shall not be unable to pay its liabilities, including contingent and other liabilities, as they mature where such inability is not temporary. For purposes of this definition, "not have an unreasonably small amount of capital for the operation of the businesses in which it is engaged" and "unable to pay its liabilities, including contingent and other liabilities, as they mature" means that such Person shall not be able to generate enough cash from operations, asset dispositions or refinancing, or a combination thereof, to meet its obligations, as of the date of determination, as they become due.
Solvent
"" shall mean International CCE, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Splitco
"" shall mean any taxable year or other taxable period that begins on or before and ends after the Closing Date.
Straddle Period
"" or "" shall mean, with respect to a specified Person, any other Person of which a majority of the voting power of the voting equity securities or equity interests is owned, directly or indirectly, by such specified Person.
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
"" shall mean, with respect to the Sweden Company and the Sweden Subsidiary on a consolidated basis, as of the Closing the amount equal to their (i) current assets determined in accordance with GAAP (as applied by the Nordic Business as of the date hereof) consistently applied but including and/or excluding the items specified on the Sweden Statement of Net Working Capital attached hereto as , minus (ii) current liabilities determined in accordance with GAAP (as applied by the Nordic Business as of the date hereof) consistently applied but including and/or excluding the items specified on the Sweden Statement of Net Working Capital attached hereto as .
Sweden Net Working Capital
Schedule B
Schedule B
"" shall mean Coca-Cola Distributren AB, a company organized under the laws of Sweden, which is a Subsidiary of the Sweden Company.
Sweden Subsidiary
 
 
"" shall mean SEK 127,725,942. The Sweden Target Net Working Capital is subject to adjustment by mutual agreement of the parties in the event of a material change in the working capital needs of the Sweden Company and the Sweden Subsidiary, taken as a whole, arising from changes in the revenues thereof of more than 10% of the revenue in the same period in the prior year during the period between the first day of the fiscal month after the date hereof and the Closing.
Sweden Target Net Working Capital
"" (and, with correlative meaning, "") shall mean (A) any and all federal, state, local and foreign taxes, including income, alternative or add-on minimum, gross receipts, profits, lease, service, service use, wage, employment, workers compensation, business occupation, environmental, estimated, excise, sales, use, transfer, license, payroll, franchise, severance, stamp, occupation, windfall profits, withholding, social security, unemployment, disability, ad valorem, capital stock, paid in capital, recording, registration, property, real property gains, value added, business license, custom duties and other taxes, charges, fees, levies, imposts, duties or assessments of any kind whatsoever, imposed or required to be withheld by any Taxing Authority, including any interest, additions to Tax or penalties applicable or related thereto, (B) any liability for the payment of any amount of a type described in clause (A) as a result of any obligation to indemnify or otherwise assume or succeed to the liability of any other Person. For the avoidance of doubt, any liability in respect of any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar Law shall not be treated as a Tax.
Tax
Taxable
"" shall mean any return, report, certificate, form or similar statement or document (including any related supporting information or schedule attached thereto and any information return, amended Tax return, claim for refund or declaration of estimated Tax) required to be supplied to, or filed with, a Governmental Entity or any bill for or notice related to ad valorem or other similar Taxes received from a Governmental Entity, in each case, in connection with the determination, assessment or collection of any Tax or the administration of any laws, regulations, or administrative requirements relating to any Tax.
Tax Return
"" shall mean any Governmental Entity having jurisdiction over the assessment, determination, collection or imposition of any Tax.
Taxing Authority
"" shall mean The Coca-Cola Company, a Delaware corporation.
TCCC
"" shall mean the business of TCCC and its Subsidiaries other than the Nordic Business.
TCCC Business
"" shall mean Norway and Sweden.
Territory
"" shall mean the definition ascribed to such term within the definition of "Intellectual Property Rights" in this .
Trademarks
Section 1.1
"" shall mean all fees, costs and expenses incurred by, or on behalf of, Buyer, Seller, the Nordic Companies or their respective Affiliates, the board of directors of CCE, or the boards of directors of Splitco, Buyer, TCCC or Seller in order to effect the Sale and all other Transactions contemplated hereby, including: (a) all legal, accounting, financial advisor and other advisory fees and expenses associated with the Sale and the other Transactions and (b) all fees and expenses owed to Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Lazard Frres & Co. LLC, Greenhill & Co, LLC, Allen & Company LLC and Goldman Sachs & Co. and any other broker or advisor engaged in connection with effecting the Transactions.
Transaction Expenses
 
 
"" shall mean, collectively, the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements.
Transactions
1.2 . The following terms are defined elsewhere in this Agreement in the following Sections:
Terms Defined in Other Sections
 
 
 
 
 
1.3 . Unless otherwise expressly provided, for the purposes of this Agreement the following rules of interpretation shall apply:
Interpretation and Rules of Construction
(a) The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
(b) When a reference is made in this Agreement to an article or a section, paragraph, exhibit or schedule, such reference shall be to an article or a section, paragraph, exhibit or schedule of this Agreement unless otherwise clearly indicated to the contrary.
(c) Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation."
(d) The words "hereof," "herein" and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement.
(e) Unless otherwise indicated, all references to "the date hereof" shall mean the date of this Agreement.
(f) The meaning assigned to each term defined herein shall be equally applicable to both the singular and the plural forms of such term, and words denoting any gender shall include all genders. Where a word or phrase is defined herein, each of its other grammatical forms shall have a corresponding meaning.
(g) A reference to "$," "U.S. dollars" or "dollars," shall mean the legal tender of the United States of America.
(h) A reference to "NOK" shall mean the legal tender of Norway.
(i) A reference to "SEK" shall mean the legal tender of Sweden.
(j) A reference to any legislation or to any provision of any legislation shall include any amendment to, and any modification or re-enactment thereof, any legislative provision substituted therefor and all rules, regulations and statutory instruments issued thereunder or pursuant thereto.
 
 
(k) Except as otherwise expressly stated in this Agreement, nothing in or addressed by any representation or warranty made by any Person in this Agreement shall in any way limit or restrict the scope, applicability, meaning of or the matters addressed by any other representation or warranty made by such Person herein.
(l) A reference to any period of days shall be deemed to be to the relevant number of calendar days unless otherwise specified.
(m) The parties have been represented by counsel and have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement. In the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provisions of this Agreement.
(n) All calculations pursuant to shall be performed in local currency and shall be converted into U.S. Dollars as of the date of settlement, at the Citibank FX benchmark rate based on the London 3 p.m. fixing time as of such date.
Section 2.3
2.1 . Upon the terms and subject to the satisfaction or waiver, if permissible, of the conditions hereof, at the Closing, Seller shall sell, convey, assign, transfer and deliver to Buyer and Buyer shall purchase, acquire and accept from Seller, all of the Shares.
Purchase and Sale of the Shares
2.2 .
Purchase Price
(a) At the Closing, in consideration for the sale, conveyance, assignment, transfer and delivery of the Shares, Buyer shall deliver to Seller the aggregate amount of $822,000,000 as provided in (such amount, the ""), as adjusted, if applicable, pursuant to hereof (as so adjusted, the "").
Schedule C
Base Purchase Price
Section 2.3(a)
Closing Purchase Price
(b) The Closing Purchase Price shall be subject to adjustment after the Closing pursuant to and and to and hereof.
Sections 2.3
2.5
Articles IX
XI
2.3 .
Net Working Capital Adjustment
(a) At least two (2) Business Days prior to the Closing Date, Seller shall deliver to Buyer a certificate of an executive officer of Seller (the "") that sets forth Seller's good faith estimate of each of (x) the Norway Net Working Capital and (y) the Sweden Net Working Capital, in each case, as of the Closing, together with a calculation of the sum of the estimated Norway Net Working Capital and estimated Sweden Net Working Capital (such sum, the ""). At the Closing:
Estimated Net Working Capital Statement
Estimated Closing Net Working Capital
(i) if the Estimated Closing Net Working Capital is less than the sum of (A) the Norway Target Net Working Capital and (B) the Sweden Target Net Working Capital, the Base Purchase Price shall be decreased by an amount equal to such deficiency; and
 
 
(ii) if the Estimated Closing Net Working Capital exceeds the sum of (A) the Norway Target Net Working Capital and (B) the Sweden Target Net Working Capital, the Base Purchase Price shall be increased by an amount equal to such excess.
(b) Except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties, as promptly as practicable, but in no event later than sixty (60) days after the Closing Date, Buyer shall in good faith prepare and deliver to Seller (i)(A) an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Norway Company as of the Closing prepared in accordance with GAAP (except for the absence of notes) (the ""), and (B) a statement (the "") setting forth Buyer's calculation of the Norway Net Working Capital as of the Closing, based on such Norway Closing Balance Sheet and calculated on a basis consistent with (the ""), (ii)(A) an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Sweden Company and the Sweden Subsidiary as of the Closing prepared in accordance with GAAP (except for the absence of notes) (the ""), and (B) a statement (the "" and together with the Norway Closing Net Working Capital Statement, the "") setting forth Buyer's calculation of the Sweden Net Working Capital as of the Closing, based on such Sweden Closing Balance Sheet and calculated on a basis consistent with (the "") and (iii) the sum of the Norway Closing Net Working Capital and the Sweden Closing Net Working Capital (the "").
Norway Closing Balance Sheet
Norway Closing Net Working Capital Statement
Schedule A
Norway Closing Net Working Capital
Sweden Closing Balance Sheet
Sweden Closing Net Working Capital Statement
Closing Net Working Capital Statement
Schedule B
Sweden Closing Net Working Capital
Closing Net Working Capital
(c) Without prejudice to any of Buyer's rights hereunder, following the Closing, in the event that Buyer believes in good faith that Closing Net Working Capital is greater or lesser than the Estimated Closing Net Working Capital, the following provisions will apply:
(i) Buyer shall, and shall cause the Nordic Companies to, permit Seller and its Representatives to have reasonable access to the books, records and other documents (including work papers) pertaining to or used in connection with preparation of the Closing Net Working Capital Statement (including the Norway Closing Balance Sheet, the Sweden Closing Balance Sheet, the Norway Closing Net Working Capital and the Sweden Closing Net Working Capital) and provide Seller with copies thereof (as reasonably requested by Seller). If Seller disagrees with Buyer's calculation of either the Norway Closing Net Working Capital or the Sweden Closing Net Working Capital as set forth on the Norway Closing Balance Sheet or the Sweden Closing Balance Sheet, as applicable, Seller shall, within thirty (30) days after Seller's receipt of the Closing Net Working Capital Statement, notify Buyer in writing of such disagreement by setting forth Seller's calculation of the Norway Closing Net Working Capital or Sweden Closing Net Working Capital, as applicable, and describing in reasonable detail the basis for such disagreement (an ""). If no Objection Notice is delivered on or prior to the thirtieth (30th) day after Seller's receipt of the Norway Closing Balance Sheet and the Sweden Closing Balance Sheet, Buyer's calculation of the Closing Net Working Capital
Objection Notice
 
shall be deemed to be binding on the parties hereto. If an Objection Notice is timely delivered to Buyer, then Buyer and Seller shall negotiate in good faith to resolve their disagreements with respect to the computation of the Closing Net Working Capital. In the event that Buyer and Seller are unable to resolve all such disagreements within fifteen (15) days after Buyer's receipt of such Objection Notice, Buyer and Seller shall submit such remaining disagreements to an independent, nationally recognized accounting firm mutually acceptable to Buyer and Seller (the "") for resolution.
Auditor
(ii) Buyer and Seller shall use their respective reasonable efforts to cause the Auditor to resolve all remaining disagreements with respect to the computation of the Closing Net Working Capital as soon as practicable, but in any event shall direct the Auditor to render a determination within forty-five (45) days after its retention. The Auditor shall consider only those items and amounts in Buyer's and Seller's respective calculations of the Closing Net Working Capital that are identified as being items and amounts to which Buyer and Seller have been unable to agree on. In resolving any disputed item, the Auditor shall act as an expert and not as an arbitrator and the Auditor may not assign a value to any item greater than the greatest value for such item claimed by either party or less than the smallest value for such item claimed by either party. The Auditor's determination of the Closing Net Working Capital shall not be limited to the materials submitted by Buyer and Seller but may include any relevant accounting literature or guidance, and shall be based on the definition of "Norway Net Working Capital" and "Sweden Net Working Capital" included herein. The determination of the Auditor shall be conclusive and binding upon the parties hereto.
(iii) The costs and expenses of the Auditor in determining the Closing Net Working Capital shall be borne equally by Buyer and Seller.
(iv) Within five (5) Business Days after the Closing Net Working Capital is finally determined pursuant to this , if the Closing Net Working Capital is less than the Estimated Closing Net Working Capital, Seller shall pay to Buyer an amount equal to such deficiency; or if the Closing Net Working Capital is greater than the Estimated Closing Net Working Capital, Buyer shall pay to Seller an amount equal to such excess, which payment shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account designated by Buyer or Seller, as applicable.
Section 2.3(c)
(v) All payments made pursuant to this shall have the nature of adjustments to the Closing Purchase Price and shall be treated accordingly by all parties hereto (and all of their Affiliates) for all Tax purposes to the maximum extent permitted by applicable Law.
Section 2.3(c)
2.4 .
Closing; Closing Deliveries
(a) Closing. The closing of the transactions contemplated hereby (the "") shall be held at the offices of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, located at Four Times Square, New York, New York, at 10:00 A.M., local time, on the first day of the Accounting Cycle (or if not a Business Day, the next Business Day) beginning after the date on which the conditions set forth in hereof have been satisfied or waived (other than
Closing
Article VII
 
those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing but subject to the satisfaction or waiver of those conditions) or at such other time and place as Seller and Buyer may mutually agree in writing (the date of the Closing being herein referred to as the ""). The parties shall cooperate with respect to the matters set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter.
Closing Date
Section 2.4(a)
(b) Deliveries by Seller. At the Closing, Seller shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to Buyer:
(i) a certificate or certificates evidencing the Shares owned by Seller duly endorsed in blank (if applicable), or accompanied by such documentation as may be reasonably required to evidence that such Shares have been duly assigned or transferred to Buyer (including minutes from a meeting of the board of directors of the relevant Nordic Company, in which the board of directors confirms receipt of a notice of the assignment or transfer of such Shares and resolves to enter Buyer as the owner of such Shares);
(ii) an updated share register of the Norway Company, in which Buyer has been entered as the owner of the Norway Shares;
(iii) an updated share register of the Sweden Company, in which Buyer has been entered as the owner of the Sweden Shares;
(iv) any certificate representing mortgages in each parcel of Owned Real Property;
(v) a certificate or certificates representing all shares in the Sweden Subsidiary;
(vi) a copy of a resolution of the board of directors of the Norway Company approving Buyer's acquisition of the Norway Shares;
(vii) a receipt for the Closing Consideration signed by Seller;
(viii) written resignations by each director and deputy director (other than any director appointed by employees of the Sweden Company or the Sweden Subsidiary), in the Sweden Company and the Sweden Subsidiary, including a confirmation from each such Person that he or she has no claim against the Sweden Company or the Sweden Subsidiary, as applicable, resulting from his or her position as board director or deputy board director, other than any applicable accrued right to salary, fees, disbursements or similar compensation for services rendered;
(ix) written resignations by each director and deputy director (other than any director appointed by employees of the Norway Company) in the Norway Company, including a confirmation from each such Person that he or she has no claim against the Norway Company, resulting from his or her position as board director or deputy board director, other than any applicable accrued right to salary, fees, disbursements or similar compensation for services rendered; and
 
 
(x) a duly executed counterpart copy of each Ancillary Agreement to be executed and delivered by Seller or its applicable Affiliates at the Closing.
(c) Deliveries by Buyer.
(i) At the Closing, Buyer shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to Seller:
(1) an amount equal to the Closing Purchase Price (the ""), netted as may be agreed to by the parties; and
Closing Consideration
(2) a duly executed counterpart copy of each of the Ancillary Agreements to be executed by Buyer or any of its Affiliates (including the Nordic Companies) at the Closing.
(ii) Immediately following the Closing, Buyer shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to Seller:
(1) copies of minutes from a shareholders' meeting of the Sweden Company to appoint new members to the board of directors (other than any director appointed by employees of the Sweden Company), as applicable;
(2) copies of minutes from a shareholders' meeting of the Norway Company to appoint new members to the board of directors (other than any director appointed by employees of the Norway Company);
(3) a notification of the Swedish Companies Registration Office () of the change of the board of directors and a copy of documentary evidence that the notification has been received by the Swedish Companies Registration Office; and
Sw. Bolagsverket
(4) a copy of the complete registration documents to be filed with the Norwegian Companies Registration Office () of the change of the board of directors.
Foretaksregisteret
2.5 .
Purchase Price Adjustment
(a) If, for the twelve (12)-month period ended December 31, 2010 (the ""):
Adjustment Period
(i) The EBITDA of the Nordic Business is less than $108,000,000 (the ""), Seller shall pay to Buyer as provided in an amount equal to the excess of the EBITDA Floor over the EBITDA of the Nordic Business for the Adjustment Period; or
EBITDA
Floor
Section 2.5(c)(iv)
(ii) The EBITDA of the Nordic Business is greater than $118,000,000 (the ""), Buyer shall pay to Seller as provided in an amount equal to the excess of EBITDA of the Nordic Business for the Adjustment Period over the EBITDA Ceiling (any payment required pursuant to or , the "").
EBITDA
Ceiling
Section 2.5(c)(iv)
Sections 2.5(a)(i)
(ii)
Contingent Payment
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, no payment shall be required pursuant to this if EBITDA of the Nordic Business for the Adjustment Period is greater than or equal to the EBITDA Floor and less than or equal to the EBITDA Ceiling.
Section 2.5
(b) Except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties, as promptly as practicable, but in no event later than ninety (90) days after the end of the Adjustment Period, Buyer shall in good faith prepare and deliver to Seller a statement (the "") setting forth Buyer's calculation of the EBITDA of the Nordic Business for the Adjustment Period, calculated on a basis consistent with (for the avoidance of doubt, such calculation shall be performed in local currency and shall be converted into U.S. Dollars using the exchange rates set forth in ), and Buyer's calculation of the Contingent Payment, if any, with respect thereto; provided, however, if the Adjustment Period ends on or prior to the Closing Date, such Adjustment Statement shall be delivered as promptly as practicable after Closing, but in no event later than ninety (90) days after Closing (in which case, for the avoidance of doubt, after the end of the Adjustment Period and prior to the Closing, Seller shall, in accordance with , permit Buyer and its Representatives to have reasonable access to the books, records and other documents (including work papers) reasonably necessary for Buyer to begin to prepare the Adjustment Statement). For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the Contingent Payment be payable prior to the Closing.
Adjustment Statement
Schedule D
Schedule D
Section 6.2
(c) Without prejudice to any of Buyer's rights hereunder, following delivery of the Adjustment Statement, the following provisions will apply:
(i) Buyer shall, and shall cause the Nordic Companies to, permit Seller and its Representatives to have reasonable access to the books, records and other documents (including work papers) pertaining to or used in connection with preparation of the Adjustment Statement and provide Seller with copies thereof (as reasonably requested by Seller). If Seller disagrees with Buyer's calculation of the EBITDA of the Nordic Business for the Adjustment Period or the Contingent Payment, Seller shall, within sixty (60) days after Seller's receipt of the Adjustment Statement, notify Buyer in writing of such disagreement by setting forth Seller's calculation of the EBITDA of the Nordic Business for the Adjustment Period and the Contingent Payment, and describing in reasonable detail the basis for such disagreement (an ""). If no Adjustment Objection Notice is delivered on or prior to the sixtieth (60th) day after Seller's receipt of the Adjustment Statement, Buyer's calculation of such EBITDA and the Contingent Payment shall be deemed to be binding on the parties hereto. If an Adjustment Objection Notice is timely delivered to Buyer, then Buyer and Seller shall negotiate in good faith to resolve their disagreements with respect to the computation of such EBITDA and the Contingent Payment. In the event that Buyer and Seller are unable to resolve all such disagreements within fifteen (15) days after Buyer's receipt of such Adjustment Objection Notice, Buyer and Seller shall submit such remaining disagreements to the Auditor for resolution.
Adjustment Objection Notice
 
 
(ii) Buyer and Seller shall use their respective reasonable efforts to cause the Auditor to resolve all remaining disagreements with respect to the computation of the EBITDA of the Nordic Business for the Adjustment Period and the amount of any Contingent Payment as soon as practicable, but in any event shall direct the Auditor to render a determination within forty-five (45) days after its retention. The Auditor shall consider only those items and amounts in Buyer's and Seller's respective calculations of such EBITDA and Contingent Payment that are identified as being items and amounts to which Buyer and Seller have been unable to agree on. In resolving any disputed item, the Auditor shall act as an expert and not as an arbitrator and the Auditor may not assign a value to any item greater than the greatest value for such item claimed by either party or less than the smallest value for such item claimed by either party. The Auditor's determination of such EBITDA and the amount of any Contingent Payment shall not be limited to the materials submitted by Buyer and Seller but may include any relevant accounting literature or guidance, and shall be based on and the definition of "" included herein. The determination of the Auditor shall be conclusive and binding upon the parties hereto.
Schedule D
EBITDA
(iii) The costs and expenses of the Auditor in determining the EBITDA of the Nordic Business for the Adjustment Period and the amount of any Contingent Payment shall be borne equally by Buyer and Seller.
(iv) Within five (5) Business Days after the EBITDA of the Nordic Business for the Adjustment Period and the amount of any Contingent Payment are finally determined pursuant to this , (A) if any Contingent Payment is payable pursuant to , Seller shall pay the amount thereof by (x) wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account(s) designated by Buyer or (y) in a manner as otherwise agreed by the parties or (B) if any Contingent Payment is payable pursuant to , Buyer shall pay the amount thereof by (x) wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account(s) designated by Seller or (y) in a manner as otherwise agreed by the parties.
Section 2.5
Section 2.5(a)(i)
Section 2.5(a)(ii)
(d) Following the Closing, until December 31, 2010, Buyer shall manage and operate the Nordic Business in a commercially reasonable manner and consistent with the business plan for the applicable Nordic Company for the then current year previously delivered to Buyer (the ""). Seller acknowledges and agrees that, following the Closing, Buyer shall, in its sole and absolute discretion, have complete control over all strategic and operational decisions concerning the Nordic Business and may manage and operate the Nordic Companies and their businesses as Buyer determines in a manner consistent with the Business Plan. Seller further agrees that (i) the right of Buyer to receive the Contingent Payment does not create in Seller any right to control or direct the management and operations of the Nordic Companies and (ii) Seller will have no claim against Buyer or any of its Affiliates (including the Nordic Companies) with respect to the management and operation of the Nordic Companies, including any impact thereof on the EBITDA of the Nordic Companies or on the amount of any Contingent Payment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the impact of any change as a result of any deviation from the Business Plan shall be excluded from the calculation of EBITDA.
Business Plan
 
 
(e) All payments made pursuant to this shall have the nature of adjustments to the Closing Purchase Price and shall be treated accordingly by all parties hereto (and all of their Affiliates) for all Tax purposes to the maximum extent permitted by applicable Law.
Section 2.5
3.1 . At the Closing, Seller and Buyer (or their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall execute and deliver or, as applicable, cause their appropriate Subsidiaries or Affiliates to execute and deliver, each of the following agreements:
Ancillary Agreements
(i) a Corporate Name Letter between TCCC and each of the Sweden Company and the Norway Company (the ""), substantially in the form set forth in attached hereto; and
Corporate Name Letter
s
Exhibit I
(ii) a Bottler's Agreement (a "") for each of Norway and Sweden, substantially in the form set forth in attached hereto.
Bottler
'
s Agreement
Exhibit II
Collectively, the foregoing agreements are referred to as the "."
Ancillary Agreements
3.2 .
Intercompany Agreements and Certain Intercompany Indebtedness
(a) Except as set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter and subject to and , as of the Closing, Seller shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, cause all Intercompany Agreements (other than Contracts relating to Intercompany Indebtedness and Ancillary Agreements) to be terminated in all respects such that there is no cost or liability on the part of the parties thereto under or in connection with such termination.
Section 3.2(a)
Section 3.8
Section 3.9
(b) Seller shall cause any outstanding Intercompany Indebtedness of the type described in  of the definition thereof to be repaid at or prior to the Closing.
clause (a)
3.3 .
[Reserved]
3.4 .
[Reserved]
3.5 .
Guarantees
(a) Seller shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause Seller or one or more of its Affiliates to be substituted in all respects for the Nordic Companies, as applicable, and for the Nordic Companies, as applicable, to be otherwise removed or released, effective as of the Closing, in respect of all obligations of any of the Nordic Companies, as applicable, under each guarantee, indemnity, surety bond, letter of credit and letter of comfort (each, a ""), given or obtained by any of the Nordic Companies, as applicable, for the benefit of any of Seller or any of its Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies). If Seller has been unable to effect any such substitution, removal, release or termination with respect to any such
Guarantee
 
Guarantee following the Closing, Seller shall continue to use its commercially reasonable efforts to effect such substitution, removal, release or termination as soon as reasonably practicable after the Closing; , that from and after Closing, Seller shall indemnify against, hold harmless and promptly reimburse the Nordic Companies or their respective Affiliates for any payments made by the Nordic Companies or their respective Affiliates and for the Losses of the Nordic Companies or their respective Affiliates arising out of, or in performing, in whole or in part, any performance obligation in accordance with the underlying obligation under any such Guarantee (except to the extent the performance obligation under any such Guarantee shall have been triggered solely by an act or failure to act of the applicable guarantor (rather than the underlying obligor)).
provided
(b) Seller shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause one or more of the Nordic Companies to be substituted in all respects for Seller or its Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies), and for Seller or its Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies), as applicable, to be otherwise removed or released, effective as of the Closing, in respect of all obligations of Seller or its Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies), as applicable, under each Guarantee given or obtained by Seller or its Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies), as applicable, for the benefit of any of the Nordic Companies. If Seller has been unable to effect any such substitution, removal, release or termination with respect to any such Guarantee following the Closing, Seller shall continue to use its commercially reasonable efforts to effect such substitution, removal, release or termination as soon as reasonably practicable after the Closing; , that from and after the Closing, Buyer shall indemnify against, hold harmless and promptly reimburse Seller for any payments made by Seller or its Affiliates and for the Losses of Seller or its respective Affiliates arising out of, or in performing, in whole or in part, any performance obligation in accordance with the underlying obligation under any such Guarantee (except to the extent the performance obligation under any such Guarantee shall have been triggered solely by an act or failure to act of the applicable guarantor (rather than the underlying obligor)).
provided
3.6 .
[Reserved]
3.7 .
Insurance Policies
(a) Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts, and shall cause the Nordic Companies to use their respective commercially reasonable efforts, to maintain all Policies (or comparable Policies providing substantially similar coverage with respect to the Nordic Companies) in full force and effect at all times up to and including the Closing, and shall pay all premiums, deductibles and retro-adjustment billings, if any, with respect thereto covering all periods, and ensuring coverage of the Nordic Business, up to and including the Closing.
(b) With respect to any and all events or circumstances affecting the Nordic Business which could reasonably be the subject of a claim under a Policy that provides coverage with respect to the Nordic Companies which are known prior to the Closing to the employees of Seller or its Affiliates who are responsible for making claims under such Policies, Seller shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, use commercially reasonable efforts to submit the applicable claims prior to the Closing.
 
 
(c) Other than as provided in this , from and after the Closing, Buyer agrees that it shall not (and shall cause its Affiliates not to) make any claim against Seller or any of its Affiliates, or to any carrier under any Policy of Seller or its Affiliates, alleging that Buyer or any of its Affiliates (including the Nordic Companies) is entitled to coverage or reimbursement under any such Policy. Notwithstanding the foregoing, where any Policy of Seller or its Affiliates with an unaffiliated third party insurer (and excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, any self-insurance, captive insurance or similar program) provides coverage with respect to any Nordic Business Liabilities that (i) constitute claims existing prior to the Closing or (ii) relate to claims made after the Closing with respect to an occurrence prior to the Closing under an occurrence-based policy (collectively, ""), the Nordic Companies may claim coverage under such Policies, control the prosecution and defense of such Covered Claims and receive any insurance recoverables with respect thereto. After the Closing, Seller and its Affiliates shall administer the applicable Policies, that such administration shall in no way limit, inhibit or preclude the right of the Nordic Companies to insurance coverage thereunder in accordance with this , in each case, with respect to Covered Claims. Buyer shall promptly notify Seller of any Covered Claims, and Seller agrees to cooperate with the Nordic Companies concerning the pursuit by the Nordic Companies of any such Covered Claim, in each case at the expense of Buyer (to the extent such expenses are not covered by the applicable Policies). Buyer shall be responsible for complying with terms of the applicable Policies to obtain coverage for such Covered Claims, including if the applicable Policy requires any payments to be made in connection therewith, and Buyer shall make or cause to be made any such required payments. Any proceeds received by Seller or its Affiliates from any third-party insurance carrier that relate to Covered Claims shall be paid promptly to the applicable Nordic Company. In the event that Covered Claims relate to the same occurrence for which Seller or its Affiliates is seeking coverage under such Policies, Seller and Buyer shall cause their applicable Affiliates to jointly defend any such claim of interest necessary to conduct a joint defense, and shall bear any expenses in connection therewith equally (to the extent such expenses are not covered by the applicable Policies). In the event that policy limits under an applicable Policy are not sufficient to fund all Covered Claims and any other applicable claims of Seller or its Affiliates, amounts due under the applicable Policy shall be paid on a first come first served basis, and any amounts simultaneously due shall be paid to the respective entities in proportion to the amounts which otherwise would be due were the limits of liability infinite.
Section 3.7(c)
Covered Claims
provided
Section 3.7(c)
3.8 . In the event that, prior to the Closing, the parties identify any human resource, information technology, finance service or similar corporate service that (i) was provided by TCCC or its Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies) to the Nordic Companies in the ordinary course of business in the twelve (12) months prior to the Closing Date, (ii) is reasonably necessary to the conduct of the business of the Nordic Companies after the Closing and (iii) will not be provided by TCCC or any of its Affiliates following the Closing pursuant to any Ancillary Agreement or any Intercompany Agreement that is not terminated in accordance with this Agreement, the parties will negotiate in good faith to agree prior to the Closing Date on a Transition Services Agreement for the provision of such services to the Nordic Companies. Any such Transition Services Agreement shall be in substantially the same form as the transition services agreement referenced on of the Seller Disclosure Letter which shall be effective as of the Closing Date.
Transition Services
Section 3.8
 
 
3.9 .
Certain Other Arrangements
(a) Prior to the Closing, TCCC, CCE and Splitco shall (i) cooperate to identify (x) Intercompany Agreements and (y) arrangements pursuant to which Seller or any of its Affiliates provides goods or services in respect of the Nordic Business pursuant to Contracts between Seller or such Affiliate and a third party provider (in each case, except as contemplated by , the Bottler's Agreements and the Corporate Name Letters), that CCE reasonably determines it desires to continue for the benefit of the Nordic Companies following the Closing and (ii) negotiate in good faith the continuance of such Intercompany Agreements or arrangements to the extent permitted by applicable Law and any applicable Contract with a third party upon substantially the same terms and conditions that were applicable thereto as of the Closing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the agreements and arrangements set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter shall continue in accordance with their terms after the Closing and shall not be subject to the preceding sentence of this and (ii) the agreements and arrangements set forth in and of the Seller Disclosure Letter shall not be subject to the preceding sentence of this .
Section 3.8
Section 3.2(a)
Section 3.9
Sections 4.14(a)
4.24
Section 3.9
(b) Prior to the Closing, Seller and Buyer shall, and shall cause their Affiliates to, use reasonable best efforts to cause any hedge contracts set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter (as well as any hedge contracts entered into pursuant to the second paragraph of of the Seller Disclosure Letter) to be assigned to the appropriate Nordic Company, in each case, subject to any consents required in connection therewith and with expenses in connection therewith being shared equally by the parties.
Section 4.22
Section 6.1
Except as set forth in the Seller Disclosure Letter (with specific reference to the particular Section or subsection of this Agreement to which the information set forth in such Seller Disclosure Letter relates; , that any information set forth in one section of the Seller Disclosure Letter shall be deemed to apply to each other Section or subsection thereof or hereof as appropriate to which its relevance is readily apparent on its face), Seller hereby represents and warrants to Buyer as of the date hereof and as of the Closing (except to the extent any such representation or warranty is made as of an earlier date, in which case, as of such earlier date), as follows:
provided
4.1 . Each of Seller, TCCC and the Nordic Companies is duly organized, validly existing and is in good standing (with respect to jurisdictions that recognize that concept) under the Laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization and has all requisite corporate power and corporate authority to own, lease and operate the properties it owns, leases or operates and, in the case of the Nordic Companies, to conduct the Nordic Business as conducted on the date hereof (except, in each case, with respect to the Sweden Subsidiary, as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter). Each of the Nordic Companies is duly qualified or licensed to do business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing (with respect to jurisdictions that recognize that concept) in each jurisdiction in which the property owned, leased or operated by it is located or where the nature of the Nordic Business makes such qualification necessary (except, with respect to the Sweden Subsidiary, as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter), except in each case in those jurisdictions
Organization and Qualification
Section 4.1
Section 4.1
 
where the failure to be so qualified or licensed and in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect. True and complete copies of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws (or other comparable governing documents) of each of the Nordic Companies as in effect on the date of this Agreement have been delivered to Buyer.
4.2 . Each of Seller and TCCC has all requisite corporate power and corporate authority to execute and deliver this Agreement. Each of Seller and TCCC has all requisite corporate power and corporate authority to enter into each of the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party and to perform its respective obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the Transactions. Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, the execution, delivery and performance by each of Seller and TCCC of this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party, and the consummation of the Transactions have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of each of Seller and TCCC. This Agreement has been (and each Ancillary Agreement upon execution and delivery will be) duly executed and delivered by each of Seller and TCCC and constitutes (and each Ancillary Agreement upon execution and delivery will constitute), assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by each of the other parties hereto and thereto, the legal, valid and binding obligation of each of Seller and TCCC, as applicable, enforceable against each of Seller and TCCC, as the case may be, in accordance with its and their respective terms, except that such enforcement may be subject to any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or other Laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and to general equity principles.
Authority
Section 4.2
4.3 . All of the Shares are beneficially owned by Seller free and clear of all Liens, except for Permitted Liens. The consummation of the Transactions will convey to Buyer good title to the Shares, free and clear of all Liens.
Ownership of Shares
4.4 .
Capitalization; Subsidiaries
(a) The share capital of the Norway Company is NOK 70,000,000 and consists of 700,000 Norway Shares, with a par value of NOK 100 per share. No other Norway Shares or other equity securities of the Norway Company are outstanding. All of the issued and outstanding Norway Shares are duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and free of any preemptive rights (except such preemptive rights for the benefit of other shareholders as are set out in the Norwegian Private Limited Joint Stock Companies Act of 1997 no. 44) or Liens and issued in compliance with all applicable securities Laws. There are no outstanding (i) securities convertible into or exchangeable for the capital stock of, or equity interests in, the Norway Company, (ii) options, warrants or other rights to purchase or subscribe for capital stock of, or equity interests in, the Norway Company, or (iii) Contracts or understandings of any kind requiring the issuance, transfer, repurchase, redemption, reacquisition or voting of any capital stock of, or equity interests in, the Norway Company, any such convertible or exchangeable securities or any such options, warrants or rights, pursuant to which the Norway Company is subject or bound. There is no Person (other than Buyer and its Affiliates) who is entitled to acquire or receive any shares of capital stock or other securities of the Norway Company pursuant to an agreement entered into by Seller or any of its Subsidiaries (other than this Agreement).
 
 
(b) The share capital of the Sweden Company is registered to be at least SEK 140,000,000 divided into 28,000 shares of capital stock and at the most SEK 560,000,000 divided into 112,000 shares of capital stock. 30,000 Sweden Shares, with a quota value of SEK 5,000, are issued and outstanding. No other Sweden Shares or other equity securities of Sweden Company are outstanding. All of the issued and outstanding shares of Sweden Shares are duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and free of any preemptive rights or Liens and issued in compliance with all applicable securities Laws. There are no outstanding (i) securities convertible into or exchangeable for the capital stock of, or equity interests in, the Sweden Company, (ii) options, warrants or other rights to purchase or subscribe for capital stock of, or equity interests in, the Sweden Company, or (iii) Contracts or understandings of any kind requiring the issuance, transfer, repurchase, redemption, reacquisition or voting of any capital stock of, or equity interests in, the Sweden Company, any such convertible or exchangeable securities or any such options, warrants or rights, pursuant to which the Sweden Company is subject or bound. There is no Person (other than Buyer and its Affiliates) who is entitled to acquire or receive any shares of capital stock or other securities of the Sweden Company pursuant to an agreement entered into by Seller or any of its Subsidiaries (other than this Agreement).
(c) of the Seller Disclosure Letter sets forth the name of each Subsidiary of the Norway Company and the Sweden Company, its jurisdiction of organization, the amount of its authorized and outstanding capital stock (or other equity interests) and the record and beneficial owner of such outstanding capital stock (or other equity interest). There are no Affiliates of Seller other than the Nordic Companies operating in the Nordic Business. All of the capital stock (or other equity interests) set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter is duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and free of preemptive rights or Liens and was not issued in violation of any applicable Law or preemptive rights in respect thereto.
Section 4.4(c)
Section 4.4(c)
(d) As of the Closing, the Sweden Company will hold, directly or indirectly, all right, title and interest to the equity interests of its Subsidiary, free and clear of all Liens.
(e) Except for the Sweden Subsidiary or as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, neither the Norway Company nor the Sweden Company has any Subsidiaries or owns or has an obligation under Contract to acquire, directly or indirectly, any equity interests, equity investments or debt securities in any Person (other than equity or debt securities held as investments in the ordinary course of business which are not, individually or in the aggregate, material to the Nordic Business).
Section 4.4(e)
(f) As of the date hereof, except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter (which section shall include the amount outstanding under Gross Indebtedness), there are no outstanding bonds, debentures, notes or other Indebtedness (other than Intercompany Indebtedness) of the Nordic Companies.
Section 4.4(f)
(g) Seller is a wholly-owned, direct or indirect Subsidiary of TCCC.
 
 
4.5 .
No Violation; Consents and Approvals
(a) The execution, delivery and performance by each of Seller and TCCC of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to the extent party hereto or thereto and the consummation of the Transactions do not (i) assuming all authorizations, consents and approvals described in have been obtained or made, violate any applicable Law to which Seller, TCCC or the Nordic Companies is subject, (ii) (A) require a consent, notice or approval under, conflict with, result in a violation or breach of or constitute a default under, result in the acceleration of, or (B) create in any party the right to accelerate, terminate or cancel, any Contract to which any of Seller, TCCC or the Nordic Companies is a party or (C) create any Lien upon any of the properties or Assets used or held for use in the Nordic Business, (iii) require a consent, notice or approval under, conflict with, result in a violation or breach of, constitute a default under, result in the acceleration of, or create in any party the right to accelerate, terminate or cancel, any indenture or other Contract governing or relating to Gross Indebtedness of the Nordic Companies, or (iv) violate the certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other organizational documents of Seller, TCCC or the Nordic Companies, except with respect to all of the foregoing as set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter and except with respect to the foregoing clauses (i) or (ii) or as has not had or would not have a Material Adverse Effect or prevent or materially delay the consummation of the Transactions.
Section 4.5(b)
Section 4.5(a)
(b) Except (i) as required under applicable Competition Law, (ii) for notifications to, consultations with and approvals of, Unions contemplated by , and (iii) compliance with any applicable securities Law or (iv) as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, no consent or approval is required to be obtained by Seller, TCCC or the Nordic Companies, from, and no notice is required to be given by Seller, TCCC or the Nordic Companies to, and no filing is required to be made by Seller, TCCC or the Nordic Companies with, any Governmental Entity in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by Seller and TCCC of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to the extent party hereto or thereto, other than in all cases where failure to obtain such consent or to give or make such notice or filing would not have a Material Adverse Effect or prevent or materially delay the consummation of the Transactions.
Section 6.14
Section 4.5(b)
4.6 .
Financial Statements; Undisclosed Liabilities
(a) of the Seller Disclosure Letter contains true, correct, and complete copies of (i) the unaudited balance sheet of the Norway Company as of December 31, 2009, and the related unaudited statements of income and cash flows of the Norway Company for the year ended December 31, 2009 and the audited balance sheet of the Norway Company as of December 31, 2008, and the related audited statements of income and cash flows of the Norway Company for the year ended December 31, 2008 and (ii) the unaudited balance sheets of the Sweden Company as of December 31, 2009, and the related unaudited statements of income and cash flows of the Sweden Company for the year ended December 31, 2009 and the audited balance sheets of each of the Sweden Company and the Sweden Subsidiary as of December 31, 2008, and the related audited statement of income and cash flows of the Sweden Company for the year ended December 31, 2008 (collectively, the ""). The Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except for adjustments or other matters disclosed therein, the absence of complete footnotes, and subject to normal year-end adjustments), and (ii) (y) with respect to the audited Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, gave a true and fair view in
Section 4.6(a)
Financial Statements
 
all material respects and (z) with respect to all other Financial Statements, fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Norway Company or the Sweden Company, as applicable, as of the date thereof and their applicable results of operations and cash flows for the period then ended (subject to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of complete footnotes). The Sweden Subsidiary is not actively engaged in any trade or business.
(b) When delivered pursuant to hereof, the Audited Nordic Financial Statements and (with respect to clause (ii)) the Unaudited Nordic Financial Statements (i) will have been prepared from, and shall be consistent with, the books and records of the Nordic Companies, (ii) will have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (subject to adjustments or other matters disclosed therein and the absence of complete footnotes), and (iii) will fairly present in all material respects the financial position of the Nordic Companies as of the dates thereof and their combined results of operations and cash flows for the periods then ended.
Section 6.8
(c) Except for Liabilities (i) disclosed in the Financial Statements or any notes thereto, (ii) incurred in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice since December 31, 2009, (iii) set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, or (iv) that are not reasonably likely to be material to the Nordic Business or prevent the consummation of the Transactions, none of the Nordic Companies has, or since December 31, 2009 has incurred, any Liabilities.
Section 4.6(c)
4.7 . The Nordic Companies are subject to a system of internal control over financial reporting which is effective in providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, including policies and procedures that (i) require the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the Transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Nordic Companies, (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the Nordic Companies are being made only in accordance with appropriate authorizations of management and, if required, the board of directors of TCCC and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Assets of the Nordic Companies. Seller has not, and to the Knowledge of Seller, the Nordic Companies' independent auditors have not, identified or been made aware of (A) any significant deficiency or material weakness relating to the Nordic Companies, in each case which has not been subsequently remediated, in the system of internal control over financial reporting applicable to the Nordic Companies, taken as a whole, or (B) any fraud that involves the Nordic Companies' management or other employees who have a role in the preparation of financial statements with financial reporting oversight or the internal control over financial reporting applicable to the Nordic Companies.
Internal Controls and Procedures
4.8 . Except as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement or as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, during the period from December 31, 2009 to the date of this Agreement, (a) the Nordic Business has been operated in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and (b) there has not been a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
Section 4.8
 
 
4.9 . The Nordic Companies have good and valid title to, or a valid and enforceable right to use, all personal property (whether tangible or intangible) primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the Nordic Business (the "") (except such Personal Property as has been sold or otherwise disposed of after the date hereof in the ordinary course of business), in each case, free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Liens, except where the failure to have such title or right to use would not have a Material Adverse Effect. As of the Closing, (A) the Nordic Companies will (assuming the receipt of any consent set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter) have good and valid title to, or a valid and enforceable right to use, all Personal Property described in the prior sentence (except (x) such Personal Property that has been sold or otherwise disposed of after the date hereof in the ordinary course of business, (y) as will be provided to the Nordic Business pursuant to an Ancillary Agreement or (z) as contemplated by or ), in each case free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Liens, and (B) except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, none of Seller or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates will have title to any of the Personal Property primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the Nordic Business as conducted on or prior to the date hereof (except as described in clauses (y) and (z) above), except where the failure to have such title or right to use would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Personal Property
Personal Property
Section 4.5(a)
Section 3.8
3.9
Section 4.9
4.10 .
Title to Real Property
(a) As of the date hereof, of the Seller Disclosure Letter is accurate in all material respects and sets forth: (i) a true, correct and complete list of all Owned Real Property (including the property designation or address of each parcel of Owned Real Property), and (ii) a true, correct and complete list of all Real Property Leases and the property designation or address of each parcel of Leased Real Property.
Section 4.10(a)
(b) Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, the Nordic Companies have full title () to the Owned Real Property, free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Liens and except in any case as would not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, the Nordic Companies have not leased, subleased, licensed, granted a concession or other right or interest to any Person to use or occupy the Owned Real Property or any portion thereof. Other than the right of Buyer pursuant to this Agreement, there are no outstanding options, rights of first offer or rights of first refusal to purchase the Owned Real Property or any portion thereof or interest therein. Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, as of the Closing (and assuming receipt of any applicable consent set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter), (x) the Nordic Companies will have full title to all of the Owned Real Property, free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Liens and (y) with respect to the Leased Real Property, the Nordic Companies will hold such Leased Real Property on terms and conditions in all material respects the same as those set forth in the Real Property Leases as of the date hereof, except as would not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect. As of the date hereof, none of Seller, its Affiliates, or the Nordic Companies has received written notice of any pending, and to the Knowledge of Seller, there is no threatened, condemnation proceeding with respect to any Owned Real Property.
Section 4.10(b)
No. hjemmel og full eiendomsrett; Sw. lagfaren och obligationsrttslig gare
Section 4.10(b)
Section 4.10(b)
Section 4.5(a)
 
 
(c) Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, with respect to each Real Property Lease: (i) such lease is valid, binding and in full force and effect; (ii) the Transactions do not require the consent of any other party to such lease and will not result in a material breach of or default under such lease; (iii) none of the Nordic Companies, nor, to the Knowledge of Seller, any other party to the Real Property Leases, is in material breach or default under such lease, and no event has occurred or circumstance exists which, with the delivery of notice, the passage of time or both, would constitute a material breach or default thereunder; (iv) the Nordic Companies are not currently subleasing, licensing or otherwise granting any Person the right to use or occupy such Leased Real Property or any portion thereof; and (v) as of the date hereof, none of Seller, its Affiliates or the Nordic Companies has received written notice of any pending, and to the Knowledge of Seller, there is no threatened, condemnation proceeding with respect to any Leased Real Property, except in each case as has not or would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 4.10(c)
4.11 . Except for (i) the matters contemplated by , (ii) the matters contemplated by , (iii) the termination of coverage under Policies effective as of the Closing, and (iv) the matters contemplated by the Ancillary Agreements, the Nordic Business Assets constitute in all material respects all Assets necessary for the Nordic Companies to conduct the Nordic Business in the manner conducted during the three (3) months prior to the date hereof.
Sufficiency of Assets
Section 3.8
Section 3.9
4.12 .
Intellectual Property
(a) The Nordic Companies do, and as of the Closing, will own all right, title and interest in and to, free and clear of all Liens (other than Permitted Liens), or possess valid and enforceable and adequate licenses or other legal rights to use, all material Intellectual Property Rights that are primarily used or held for use primarily in the operation of the Nordic Business as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date (collectively, the "").
Nordic Business Intellectual Property Rights
(b) of the Seller Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of all United States, foreign and multi-national (i) patents and patent applications; (ii) Trademark registrations and applications (including Internet domain name registrations) and material unregistered Trademarks; (iii) copyright registrations and applications; (iv) material trade secrets and (v) material computer software, in each case, owned by the Nordic Companies and primarily used or held for use primarily in connection with the Nordic Business. One of the Nordic Companies is the sole and exclusive beneficial, and with respect to applications and registrations, record owner of all of such Intellectual Property Rights, and all of such material Intellectual Property Rights are valid, subsisting and enforceable.
Section 4.12(b)
(c) The conduct of the Nordic Business as currently conducted, and as conducted in the past three (3) years does not to the Knowledge of Seller infringe, misappropriate, or otherwise violate, and has not infringed, misappropriated, or otherwise violated, in any material respect any Person's Intellectual Property Rights, and, to the Knowledge of Seller, there has been no such claim asserted or threatened (including in the form of offers or invitations to obtain a license) against the Nordic Companies, or, to the Knowledge of Seller, any other Person. To the Knowledge of Seller, no Person is materially infringing, misappropriating,
 
or otherwise violating any material Intellectual Property Rights owned or material Intellectual Property Rights used, or held for use by the Nordic Companies primarily in the conduct of the Nordic Business, and, to the Knowledge of Seller, no such claims have been asserted or threatened against any Person by Seller or the Nordic Companies in the past three (3) years.
(d) Assuming the receipt of any applicable consent set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, as of the Closing, all of the material Nordic Business Intellectual Property Rights shall be owned or available for use by the Nordic Companies on terms and conditions in all material respects the same as those under which the Nordic Companies owned or used the Nordic Business Intellectual Property Rights immediately prior to the Closing.
Section 4.5(a)
4.13 . Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, there is no complaint, action, suit, proceeding, arbitration, investigation or mediation (each, an "") pending or, to the Knowledge of Seller, threatened against Seller or the Nordic Companies by or before any Governmental Entity or by or on behalf of any third party that, if adversely determined, individually or in the aggregate, would (i) have a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) prevent or materially delay Seller from consummating the Transactions. Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, there are no outstanding judgments, decrees or orders of any Governmental Entity against or binding on Seller, its Affiliates or the Nordic Companies relating to the Nordic Companies or the Assets or Liabilities of the Nordic Companies except any such judgment, decree or order that has not had, and would not have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
Section 4.13
Action
Section 4.13
4.14 .
Employee Benefit Plans
(a) of the Seller Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of each material Benefit Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, of the Seller Disclosure Letter shall set forth each Benefit Plan which is a pension, severance (or termination pay), and retiree medical plan, agreement or arrangement, regardless of whether or not such plans, agreements or arrangements are material Benefit Plans. With respect to the Benefit Plans set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter, Seller has delivered or made available to Buyer true, correct and complete copies of each Benefit Plan (or, in each case, descriptions thereof for any unwritten Benefit Plans).
Section 4.14(a)
Section 4.14(a)
Section 4.14(a)
(b) Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, each Benefit Plan has been operated and administered in material compliance with its terms and with applicable Law, and each such Benefit Plan required to be registered has been registered and has been maintained in good standing with applicable Governmental Entities. Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter or as provided under applicable Law, under a collective bargaining agreement or under an employment agreement, there are no limitations or restrictions on the right of the Nordic Companies or, after consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, Splitco or any of its Subsidiaries, to merge, amend or terminate any of the Benefit Plans set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter.
Section 4.14(b)
Section 4.14(a)
(c) Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, there are no pending, or to the Knowledge of Seller, threatened claims by or on behalf of any Benefit Plan, by any employee or former employee or beneficiary covered under any such Benefit Plan, or otherwise involving any such Benefit Plan (other than routine claims for benefits).
 
 
(d) Neither the execution of this Agreement nor the consummation of the Transactions will, either alone or in combination with another event, (i) entitle any current or former employee, officer or director of any Nordic Company to any material severance pay, unemployment compensation or any other payment that must be paid by, provided by, or the cost of which is otherwise borne by the Nordic Companies, except as expressly provided in this Agreement, or (ii) accelerate the time of payment or vesting, or increase the amount of compensation due any such employee, former employee, officer or director that must be paid by, provided by, or the cost of which is otherwise borne by the Nordic Companies, in either case, which is material to the individual, except as expressly provided in this Agreement. No Benefit Plan provides for the payment by any Nordic Company of any Tax gross-up payments or similar payments in respect of any Taxes to any employees or former employees or directors or former directors who provide or provided services to any Nordic Company.
(e) Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, all contributions required to be made to or in respect of a Benefit Plan by applicable Law or the terms of any Benefit Plan have been made in full and on a timely basis.
(f) Except as set forth in Section  of the Seller Disclosure Letter, no Benefit Plan provides benefits, including death or medical benefits (whether or not insured), beyond retirement or other termination of service, other than (i) coverage mandated solely by applicable Law, (ii) death benefits or retirement benefits under any "employee pension benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA, without regard to whether ERISA applies to such arrangement) or (iii) benefits, the full costs of which are borne by the participant or his or her beneficiary.
4.14(f)
(g) For purposes of this , Knowledge of Seller shall mean the actual knowledge of any of the individuals set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter.
Section 4.14
Section 4.14(g)
4.15 . Except as set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter:
Taxes
Section 4.15
(a) All material Tax Returns required to be filed by or with respect to any Nordic Company have been duly and timely filed with the appropriate Taxing Authority (taking into account applicable extensions), and each such Tax Return was true, complete and correct in all material respects.
(b) All material Taxes and all material estimated Taxes due and owing by the Nordic Companies have been timely paid, and all Taxes and estimated Taxes for any taxable period (or portion thereof) beginning on or prior to the Closing Date, which are not yet due and payable, have been properly reserved for in the books and records of the Nordic Companies.
(c)(i) No audits or other administrative proceedings before any Taxing Authority were pending as of December 31, 2009, and (ii) no audits or other administrative proceedings before any Taxing Authority, which, if adversely determined, are reasonably expected to result in an assessment or deficiency, are presently pending, in the case of either
 
clause (i) or (ii) with regard to any Taxes or Tax Return of the Nordic Companies, as to which any Taxing Authority has asserted any claim and which, if adversely determined, would be, individually or in the aggregate, material to the Nordic Companies, or the Nordic Business, and, to the Knowledge of Seller, no deficiency or claim for Taxes or any adjustment to Taxes with respect to which the Nordic Companies may be liable is asserted or threatened in writing by any Taxing Authority.
(d) Each of the Nordic Companies have duly and timely withheld all material Taxes required to be withheld and such withheld Taxes have either been duly and timely paid to the proper Taxing Authority or properly provided for in accounts for such purpose and will be duly and timely paid to the proper Taxing Authority.
(e) Except for agreements or arrangements entered into more than five (5) years prior to the date of this Agreement in connection with the acquisition or disposition of the equity or substantially all the assets of any business entity, and except for agreements or arrangements entered into solely by and among the Nordic Companies, none of the Nordic Companies is a party to or bound by or has any obligation under any material income Tax separation, sharing, allocation or similar agreement or arrangement.
(f) There are no material Liens (other than Permitted Liens) relating to Taxes upon the assets of the Nordic Companies other than Liens relating to Taxes not yet due and payable.
(g) The income Tax Returns of the Norway Company have been examined, and such examinations have been resolved, or the statute of limitations has expired and there are no outstanding agreements or waivers or other documents having the effect of waiving or extending the statutory period of limitation applicable to such Tax Returns, for all taxable years ending on or before January 1, 1999.
(h) The income Tax Returns of the Swedish Company and the Swedish Subsidiary have been examined, and such examinations have been resolved, or the statute of limitations has expired and there are no outstanding agreements or waivers or other documents having the effect of waiving or extending the statutory period of limitation applicable to such Tax Returns, for all taxable years ending on or before January 1, 1999.
(i) Under the Law in effect as of the date hereof, each of the Norway Company and the Sweden Company is an entity disregarded from its owner for United States federal income Tax purposes.
4.16 .
Material Contracts
(a) Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, none of the Nordic Companies is a party to or bound by any of the following (individually, a "" and, collectively, the ""):
Section 4.16(a)
Material Contract
Material Contracts
(i) any "material contract" (as such term is defined in Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K assuming the Nordic Companies were subject to Regulation S-K as a stand alone consolidated entity), other than any Benefit Plan;
 
 
(ii) any Contract (other than with Buyer or its Affiliates) which contains a non-competition covenant that precludes or purports to preclude the Nordic Companies from operating in any geographic location;
(iii) any Contract relating to the formation, operation or management of any joint venture, alliance or partnership requiring annual payments by or to the Nordic Companies in excess of $2,500,000;
(iv) any Contracts providing any Person with a material exclusive dealing arrangement or the right of first refusal or first offer or similar type provision with respect to the disposition or acquisition of any material Nordic Business Assets;
(v) any Contract that grants any Person "most favored nation" status involving annual payments by or to the Nordic Companies in excess of $2,500,000;
(vi) any Contract entered into outside the ordinary course of business of the Nordic Business requiring payments by or to the Nordic Companies in excess of $2,500,000;
(vii) any Contract which contains restrictions with respect to payment of dividends or any other distribution in respect of the capital stock or other equity interest of the Nordic Companies;
(viii) any Contract pursuant to which any Nordic Company (A) is granted or obtains any right to use any material Intellectual Property Rights (other than standard form contracts granting rights to use readily available commercial software), (B) is restricted in the right to use or register any material Intellectual Property Rights, (C) permits any other Person to use, enforce, or register any material Intellectual Property Rights or (D) would require Buyer to license or make available its or its Affiliates' own Intellectual Property Rights to any other Person, or restrict the use by Buyer or its Affiliates of such Intellectual Property Rights as a result of the transactions contemplated hereby;
(ix) any settlement or similar Contract, entered into or involving a payment by the Nordic Companies outside the ordinary course of business;
(x) any Contract entered into outside the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice that includes an indemnification obligation of the Nordic Companies with a maximum potential Liability in excess of $2,500,000;
(xi) any indenture or other Contract governing or relating to Gross Indebtedness of the Nordic Companies;
(xii) any agency Contracts involving payments in excess of $2,500,000 or trade confirmations for hedging Contracts relating to the Nordic Business;
(xiii) any Indemnity Agreement; and
 
 
(xiv) any Contract that requires a consent or approval from any Person as a result of the execution of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, which Contract calls for payments to or from any Nordic Company in excess of $2,500,000.
(b) Except as set forth in Section  of the Seller Disclosure Letter, (i) each of the Material Contracts is, in all material respects, in full force and effect, and is valid and, with respect to the Nordic Companies, enforceable in accordance with its terms, and with respect to the other parties thereto is, to the Knowledge of Seller, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except that enforcement of any Material Contract may be subject to any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or other Laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to or limiting creditors' rights generally and general equity principles, (ii) there is no pending material default, under or material breach of, any Material Contract by any Nordic Company party thereto, and no event has occurred that, with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both, would constitute a material default thereunder by any Nordic Company party thereto and (iii) to the Knowledge of Seller, no party to any such Material Contract has given written notice to Seller, its Affiliates or any Nordic Company of, or made a written claim against Seller, its Affiliates or any Nordic Company with respect to, any material breach or default thereunder.
4.16(b)
(c) To the Knowledge of Seller, no other contracting party to any Material Contract referred to in is in material breach thereof or has breached the same in any material respect within the twelve (12) month period prior to the date hereof.
Section 4.16(a)
(d) To the Knowledge of Seller, none of Seller, its Affiliates or any Nordic Company has received written notice that any party to any Material Contract intends to cancel or terminate any such Material Contract or to exercise or not exercise any option or extension right thereunder whether as a result of the Transactions or otherwise.
(e) Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, Seller or its Affiliates have delivered or made available to Buyer true, correct and complete copies of each Material Contract.
Section 4.16(e)
(f) Not later than April 1, 2010, Seller shall prepare and deliver to Buyer a revised of the Seller Disclosure Letter prepared on the basis that each instance of "$2,500,000" appearing in reads "$1,000,000" and such revised shall be treated for all purposes as the section delivered on the date hereof, and each instance of "$2,500,000" appearing in hereof shall be deemed to read "$1,000,000" for all purposes of this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Buyer shall not be deemed to have Knowledge of Buyer with respect to any matter disclosed on such new of the Seller Disclosure Letter that was not disclosed on the of the Seller Disclosure Letter actually delivered on the date hereof.
Section 4.16(a)
Section 4.16(a)
Section 4.16(a)
Section 4.16(a)
Section 4.16(a)
Section 4.16(a)
4.17 . Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, (a) since December 31, 2009, there has been no Action pending, or to the Knowledge of Seller, threatened, against the Nordic Companies with respect to any product liability, and (b) to the Knowledge of Seller, there has not occurred any state of facts or
Product Liability
Section 4.17
 
circumstances that would give rise to any Action that would have a Material Adverse Effect, with respect to any products manufactured, sold or distributed at any time by the Nordic Companies arising out of a product manufactured, sold or distributed by the Nordic Business, including any Action on account of any express or implied warranty, except for normal returns and allowances which have not had and would not have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
4.18 .
Major Suppliers and Customers
(a) of the Seller Disclosure Letter lists the top twenty (20) suppliers to, and top twenty (20) customers of, each of the Norway Company and the Sweden Company as of the date of this Agreement, determined based on the dollar amount of goods and services such suppliers provided during the twelve (12) months ended December 31, 2009 (based on amounts paid by the applicable Nordic Company) and that such customers have purchased during such period (based on revenue recognized during such period under GAAP accounting), under their Contracts with the Nordic Companies.
Section 4.18(a)
(b) As of the date of this Agreement, none of the customers or suppliers identified pursuant to has canceled, materially and adversely modified, or otherwise terminated its relationship with the Nordic Companies, or materially decreased its services, supplies or materials to the Nordic Companies nor to the Knowledge of Seller has any such customer or supplier communicated in writing any intention to do any of the foregoing.
Section 4.18(a)
4.19 . Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, the Nordic Companies are, and have been since December 31, 2007, in compliance with all applicable Federal, state, local or foreign laws, statutes, codes, treaties, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations, injunctions, rulings, decrees and orders of all Governmental Entities (collectively, ""), including The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or any similar Law, except as have not had or would not have a Material Adverse Effect and except for Tax Laws (which are addressed in ). The Nordic Companies possess all permits, certificates, licenses, approvals, governmental franchises and other authorizations required under applicable Laws (collectively, "") that are necessary to the operation of the Nordic Business as operated on the date hereof or the ownership of Nordic Business Assets, and all such Permits are validly held and in full force and effect, except as have not had or would not have a Material Adverse Effect. The Nordic Companies are, and since December 31, 2007 have been, in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Permits, except as have not had or would not have a Material Adverse Effect. As of the Closing, the Nordic Companies will possess all Permits and such Permits will be in full force and effect, except as have not had or would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws; Permits
Section 4.19
Laws
Section 4.15
Permits
4.20 . Except as set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter, and except as has not had or would not have a Material Adverse Effect, with respect to the Nordic Business:
Labor Matters
Section 4.20
(a) No Nordic Company is party to, nor bound by, any collective bargaining Contract, or work rules or practices with any labor union, labor organization or works council (each, a ""); there are no collective bargaining Contracts, or work rules or practices that
Union
 
pertain to any of the employees of the Nordic Companies; and no employees of the Nordic Companies are represented by any Union with respect to their employment with the Nordic Companies.
(b) No Union has made a pending demand for recognition or certification, and there are no representation or certification proceedings or petitions seeking a representation proceeding presently pending or threatened in writing to be brought or filed with any of the Nordic Companies or with any labor relations tribunal or authority. To the Knowledge of Seller, there is no labor union organizing activities with respect to any employees of the Nordic Companies.
(c) From December 31, 2008, there has been no actual or, to the Knowledge of Seller, threatened labor disputes, strikes, lockouts, slowdowns or work stoppages against or affecting the Nordic Companies.
(d) The Nordic Companies and their respective employees, agents or representatives have not, to the Knowledge of Seller, committed any material unfair labor practice in violation of any applicable Law.
(e) The Nordic Companies are not required to provide notice to or obtain the consent of any labor union, labor organization, works council or group of employees of the Nordic Companies in connection with the execution of this Agreement, except for any notices required to be provided under collective bargaining Contracts the failure of which to be provided would not, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the Nordic Companies.
(f) The Nordic Companies: (i) have taken reasonable steps to properly classify and treat all of their workers as independent contractors or employees, and (ii) are not delinquent in any payments to, or on behalf of, any current or former independent contractors or employees for any services or amounts required to be reimbursed or otherwise paid.
(g) The Nordic Companies are and have been in compliance with all notice and other requirements relating to plant closings or layoffs under any applicable Law.
(h) To the Knowledge of Seller, no officer or director of the Nordic Companies is in violation of any term of any employment agreement, non-disclosure agreement, statutory non-disclosure obligation, noncompetition agreement, restrictive covenant or other obligation to a former employer of any such employee relating to (i) the right of any such employee to be employed by the Nordic Companies or (ii) the use of trade secrets or proprietary information.
(i) The execution of this Agreement and the consummation of the Transactions will not result in any breach or other violation of any collective bargaining Contract, employment agreement, consulting agreement or any other labor-related agreement to which any Nordic Company is a party.
 
 
4.21 .
Environmental
(a) Except as set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter, and except as has not or would not have a Material Adverse Effect, since December 31, 2006, the Nordic Companies have at all times been, and are, in compliance with respect to the Nordic Business and the Nordic Business Assets, with all applicable Environmental Laws, including, but not limited to, possessing and complying with all Permits required for their operations under applicable Environmental Laws; and have not received any written communication, whether from a Governmental Entity or other Person, alleging that any Nordic Company is not in such compliance, and there are no past or present actions, conditions, activities, circumstances or occurrences that would prevent such compliance in the future. Within forty-five (45) days of the date hereof, Seller will deliver to Buyer a complete list of all material Permits held by the Nordic Companies pursuant to applicable Environmental Laws as of the date of delivery.
Section 4.21
(b) No transfers of Permits or other governmental authorizations under Environmental Laws from Seller of any of its Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies) will be required to permit the conduct of the Nordic Business in material compliance with all applicable Environmental Laws as of the Closing, as conducted by the Nordic Business immediately prior to the Closing.
(c) Except as would not result in a Material Adverse Effect, there is no Environmental Claim pending or, to the Knowledge of Seller threatened, against any Nordic Company or, to the Knowledge of Seller, against any Person whose liability for any Environmental Claim, any Nordic Company has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law, in each case, relating to the Nordic Business or the Nordic Business Assets.
(d) There are no past or present actions, conditions, activities, circumstances or occurrences, including the Release, threatened Release or presence of any Hazardous Material which could reasonably be expected to form the basis of any material Environmental Claim relating to the Nordic Business or the Nordic Business Assets against the Nordic Companies, or to the Knowledge of Seller, against any Person whose liability for any Environmental Claim, any of the Nordic Companies has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law, except, in each case, as would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(e) Except as set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, none of the Nordic Companies is a party or subject to any administrative or judicial order or decree relating to the Nordic Business or the Nordic Assets pursuant to the Environmental Laws, except as would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 4.21(e)
(f) The Nordic Companies have not, and to the Knowledge of Seller, no other Person has, stored, deposited, discharged, buried, dumped or disposed of Hazardous Materials, on or beneath any Real Property currently or to the Knowledge of Seller, formerly owned, operated or leased by the Nordic Companies, except for inventories of such substances to be used, and wastes generated therefrom, in the ordinary course of the Nordic Business, except, in each case, as would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. With respect to any offsite disposal location used by the Nordic Companies to dispose of any Hazardous Materials, to the Knowledge of Seller, there have been no Releases of Hazardous Materials on or underneath any such location that would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
(g) Seller has delivered or otherwise made available for inspection to Buyer true, complete and correct copies of any material non-privileged reports, studies, analyses, tests or monitoring possessed by Seller and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates pertaining to potential liability under any Environmental Law relating to Hazardous Materials in, on, beneath or adjacent to any Real Property currently or formerly owned, operated or leased by the Nordic Companies, or regarding the compliance by the Nordic Companies with applicable Environmental Laws, relating to the Nordic Business or the Nordic Business Assets.
(h) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the representations and warranties set forth in this are the sole and exclusive representations relating to Environmental Laws and environmental matters in this Agreement.
Section 4.21
4.22 . of the Seller Disclosure Letter sets forth a true, correct and complete list as of the date hereof of all Intercompany Agreements that are in effect as of the date hereof.
Intercompany Agreements
Section 4.22
4.23 .
Related Party Transactions
(a) None of the Nordic Companies is a party to any written agreement with any current or former director or officer of Seller or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies) relating to the Nordic Business.
(b) There are no (i) outstanding loans or other extensions of credit made or guaranteed by the Nordic Companies to or for the benefit of any current or former director, officer, stockholder or employee of the Nordic Companies (other than advances of business expenses in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), or (ii) outstanding loans, guarantees, or other extensions of credit of any amount made to or for the benefit of the Nordic Companies by any current or former director, officer, stockholder or employee of Nordic Companies, in each case, relating to the Nordic Business.
4.24 . of the Seller Disclosure Letter sets forth a true, correct and complete list as of the date hereof of all Policies that relate to the Nordic Business. Each such Policy is in full force and effect on the date hereof and each such Policy will be in full force and effect as of the Closing, in each case, in accordance with the terms of the Policies, or a substituted Policy shall have been obtained therefor. To the Knowledge of Seller, none of the Nordic Companies is in material default with respect to its obligations under any of such Policies. None of the Nordic Companies has received a written notice of cancellation or non-renewal of any such Policy or binder.
Insurance
Section 4.24
4.25 . of the Seller Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of the date of this Agreement, all Guarantees issued by Seller or any of its Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies) on behalf of any of the Nordic Companies. of the Seller Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of the date of this Agreement, all Guarantees issued by the Nordic Companies on behalf of Seller or any of its Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies).
Guarantees
Section 4.25(a)
Section 4.25(b)
4.26 . No "business combination," "fair price," "moratorium," "control share acquisition" or other similar anti-takeover statute or regulation (each, a "") is applicable to any of the Nordic Companies, any shares of common stock of the Nordic Companies, the Sale or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Takeover Statutes; Other Restrictions
Takeover Statute
 
 
4.27 . As of the Closing, each of the Nordic Companies shall be Solvent.
Solvency
4.28 . Except for Allen & Company LLC and Goldman Sachs & Co., no broker, finder or financial advisor or other Person is entitled to any brokerage fees, commissions, finders' fees or financial advisory fees in connection with the Transactions by reason of any action taken by Seller or its Affiliates.
Brokers
4.29 . None of Seller or any Affiliate of Seller, or any other Person on behalf of Seller or its Affiliates, is making any express or implied representation or warranty in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement except for the representations and warranties contained in this and in any of the Ancillary Agreements.
Limitation of Representations and Warranties
Article IV
Except as set forth in the Buyer Disclosure Letter (with specific reference to the particular Section or subsection of this Agreement to which the information set forth in such Buyer Disclosure Letter relates; , that any information set forth in one section of the Buyer Disclosure Letter shall be deemed to apply to each other Section or subsection thereof or hereof as appropriate to which its relevance is readily apparent on its face), Buyer hereby represents and warrants to Seller as of the date hereof and as of the Closing (except to the extent any such representation or warranty is made as of an earlier date, in which case, as of such earlier date), as follows:
provided
5.1 . Buyer is a socit  responsabilit limite duly organized, validly existing and, to the extent applicable, in good standing under the Laws of Luxembourg and each of Splitco and CCE is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the State of Delaware. Each of Buyer, Splitco and CCE has all requisite corporate or limited liability company (as applicable) power and authority to enter into this Agreement and each of the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, to perform its respective obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the Transactions. The execution, delivery and performance by each of Buyer, Splitco and CCE of this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which they are respectively a party, and the consummation of the Transactions, have been duly authorized by all necessary action, corporate or otherwise, on the part of Buyer, Splitco and CCE, including the approval of CCE's board of directors by a unanimous vote of those present and the Affiliated Transaction Committee. This Agreement has been (and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party upon execution and delivery will be) duly executed and delivered by each of Buyer, Splitco and CCE and constitutes (and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party, upon execution and delivery, will constitute), assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by each of the other parties hereto and thereto, the legal, valid and binding obligation of each of Buyer, Splitco and CCE enforceable
Organization; Authority
 
against each of Buyer, Splitco and CCE in accordance with its and their respective terms, except that such enforcement may be subject to any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or other Laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and to general equity principles. As of the date hereof, Buyer is a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of CCE. As of the Closing, Buyer will be a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of Splitco.
5.2
No Violation; Consents and Approvals.
(a) The execution, delivery and performance by each of Buyer, Splitco and CCE of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to the extent party hereto or thereto and the consummation of the Transactions do not (i) assuming all authorizations, consents, filings and approvals described in have been obtained or made, violate any applicable Law to which Buyer, Splitco or CCE is subject, (ii) (A) require a consent, notice or approval under, conflict with, result in a violation or breach of, or constitute a default under, result in the acceleration of, or (B) create in any party the right to accelerate, terminate or cancel any Contract to which Buyer, Splitco or CCE is a party or (iii) violate the certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other organizational documents of Buyer, Splitco or CCE, except with respect to the foregoing clauses (i) and (ii) as would not reasonably be expected to prevent Buyer, Splitco or CCE from consummating the Transactions.
Section 5.2(b)
(b) Except (i) as required under any applicable Competition Law, (ii) for notices to, and approvals of, Unions contemplated by , and (iii) compliance with any applicable securities Law, no consent or approval is required to be obtained by Buyer, Splitco or CCE from, and no notice is required to be given by Buyer, Splitco or CCE to, and no filing is required to be made by Buyer, Splitco or CCE with, any Governmental Entity in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by Buyer, Splitco or CCE of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to the extent party hereto or thereto, other than in all cases where failure to obtain such consent or to give or make such notice or filing would not reasonably be expected to prevent Buyer, Splitco or CCE from consummating the Transactions.
Section 6.14
5.3 . There is no Action pending or, to the Knowledge of Buyer, threatened against Buyer, Splitco or CCE, by or before any Governmental Entity, or by or on behalf of any third party, that, if adversely determined, would reasonably be expected to prevent or materially impair or delay the ability of Buyer, Splitco or CCE to consummate the Transactions. There are no judgments, decrees or orders of any Governmental Entity outstanding against or binding on Buyer or its Assets, which would reasonably be expected to prevent Buyer, Splitco or CCE from consummating the Transactions.
Litigation
5.4 . Except for Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Lazard Frres & Co. LLC and Greenhill & Co., LLC, no broker, finder or financial advisor or other Person is entitled to any brokerage fees, commissions, finders' fees or financial advisory fees in connection with the Transactions by reason of any action taken by Buyer, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
Brokers
5.5 . As of the date hereof, to the Knowledge of Buyer obtained during the course of due diligence in respect of the Transactions, there are no facts or circumstances that would serve as a basis for Buyer or its Affiliates to assert that Seller breached
Buyer Knowledge
 
any of the representations or warranties of Seller contained in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement. Buyer shall be deemed to have waived in full any breach of Seller's representations and warranties of which Buyer has such Knowledge as of the date hereof and shall have no rights or remedies with respect thereto.
5.6 . Except for the representations and warranties contained in this and in any of the Ancillary Agreements, none of Buyer, any Affiliate of Buyer, or any other Person on behalf of Buyer or its Affiliates is making any other express or implied representation or warranty in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Limitation of Representations and Warranties
Article V
6.1 . Seller covenants and agrees that, from and after the date hereof until the Closing without the prior written consent of Buyer (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), except as (A) expressly contemplated by the terms of this Agreement or (B) set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter, Seller shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, (i) operate the Nordic Business only in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice, (ii) use commercially reasonable efforts to preserve intact the material operations and facilities of the Nordic Business and the material relationships with its customers, suppliers, licensors, licensees, employees and contractors, (iii) perform and comply, in all material respects, with all agreements relating to the Nordic Business to which Seller or any of its Affiliates is a party, (iv) administer insurance claims in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and (v) comply with the obligations set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as (i) expressly contemplated by the terms of this Agreement or (ii) set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter, during the period from the date of this Agreement to the Closing, without the prior written consent of Buyer (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), Seller shall not, and shall cause its Affiliates and the Nordic Companies not to, directly or indirectly, take, authorize or enter into any agreement or commitment to take any of the following actions with respect to the Nordic Companies or the Nordic Business:
Conduct of the Nordic Business
Section 6.1
Section 6.1(v)
Section 6.1
(a) adopt, propose, approve or make any change in or amendment to, or waiver under, their respective organizational documents;
(b) split, combine, redeem or reclassify, purchase or otherwise acquire any of their capital stock or other equity interests or issue or authorize the issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for shares of their capital stock or other equity interests;
(c) issue, sell, deliver, pledge or otherwise encumber any shares of their capital stock or any securities convertible into, or exchangeable for any shares of their capital stock, or grant or enter into any options, warrants, rights, agreements or commitments with respect to the issuance of such capital stock, or amend any terms of any such securities or agreements;
 
 
(d) issue or sell any new debt securities, enter into any new credit facility or otherwise incur (including by Guarantee of) any Indebtedness to the extent that any such debt securities, credit facility or Indebtedness would constitute a Liability of the Nordic Companies other than Gross Indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business and fully repaid prior to Closing;
(e) impose, or permit to be imposed, any Lien upon any of their assets, tangible or intangible other than Permitted Liens;
(f) increase the rate of compensation of, or pay or agree to pay any benefit to, any Continuing Employee, except as may be required to comply with applicable Law or by any existing plan, including any Benefit Plan, or any other agreement or arrangement, and except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, including as part of TCCC's or the Nordic Companies' normal periodic performance reviews and related salary increases;
(g) enter into, adopt or amend (i) any Benefit Plan or any other employee compensatory program, policy or arrangement with respect to the Continuing Employees (including any employment agreement (not terminable at will) or severance or change of control agreement with a Continuing Employee) or (ii) any Benefit Plan for which Splitco or any of the Nordic Companies could be liable following the Closing, except (A) as required by Law, or (B) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; that in no event shall any action be taken that would expand the positions eligible for participation in any Benefit Plan or any other employee compensatory program, policy or arrangement with respect to the Continuing Employees;
provided
(h) terminate the employment of any Continuing Employee who (i) as of the date of this Agreement is a General Manager Bottlers (including their direct reports) or (ii) as may be mutually agreed upon in writing by TCCC and CCE within 60 days following the date of this Agreement (a ""); , , that the Nordic Companies may, subject to the terms of any applicable employment agreement between a Continuing Employee and any of the Nordic Companies and applicable Law, terminate the employment of a Key Nordic Employee who (A) violates TCCC's Code of Conduct, or (B) has, prior to the date of this Agreement, been given notice by Seller, the Nordic Companies or their Affiliates of an involuntary termination of employment;
Key Nordic Employee
provided
however
(i) enter into any Contract with respect to any Benefit Plan (including, without limitation, contracts for the provision of services to such Benefit Plan) having a term of greater than one year or providing for payments by either Nordic Company having a value, estimated as of the date of such Contract, of greater than $1 million, except (A) as required by Law, or (B) Contracts of such nature as set out in subsection (c) items 11-17 of the Seller Disclosure Letter and Contracts that are a result or consequence of such Contracts;
Section 4.14(a)
(j) except with respect to individuals listed on of the Seller Disclosure Letter, change the duties of any Continuing Employee such that the employee would no longer be a Continuing Employee, or change the duties of any employee who is not currently a Continuing Employee such that the employee would become a Continuing Employee;
Section 6.15(a)
 
 
(k) execute, adopt, amend or terminate any collective bargaining Contract, unless such execution, amendment, adoption or termination (i) results in increased costs over the prior collective bargaining Contract of $1 million or less per twelve (12)-month period or (ii) does not involve the implementation of, or new participation in, a defined benefit pension plan, retiree medical plan, multiemployer pension or welfare plan or severance plan or program or (iii) is required by the terms of any existing Contract, or (iv) is required by Law or (v) involves or is a result or consequence of Contracts of such nature as set out in Section 4.14(a) subsection (c) items 11-17 of the Seller Disclosure Letter. At Buyer's request, Seller shall cause the Nordic Companies to provide periodic updates with respect to the negotiation, execution, adoption, amendment or termination of any collective bargaining Contract;
(l) enter into any binding or non-binding commitment in respect of, or take any other action in furtherance of, any actual or proposed direct or indirect merger, consolidation, stock purchase, tender offer, exchange offer, sale or other disposition, recapitalization, restructuring or spin-off or any similar transaction of or involving any Nordic Company or any of the securities (or options, rights or warrants to purchase, or securities convertible into, such securities) of the Nordic Companies, or any transaction that is similar in form, substance or purpose to any of the foregoing transactions;
(m) acquire, directly or indirectly, whether by purchase, merger, consolidation or acquisition of stock or assets or otherwise, any assets, securities, properties, interests, or businesses or make any investment (whether by purchase of stock or securities, contributions to capital, loans to, or property transfers), in each case, other than (i) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice (it being understood and agreed that the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of any Person is not in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), or (ii) if not in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, with a value or purchase price (including the value of assumed Liabilities) not in excess of $1,000,000 in any transaction or related series of transactions or $2,500,000 in the aggregate;
(n) sell, lease, license, transfer, abandon, permit to lapse or otherwise dispose of any Owned Real Property, Leased Real Property, or other properties or assets, real, personal or mixed (including Intellectual Property Rights), other than sales of inventory or Assets in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
(o) except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, enter into, amend or modify in any material respect or terminate any Material Contract or material Real Property Lease;
(p) declare, set aside or pay any dividend or other distribution payable in stock or property (other than cash) with respect to its capital stock or other equity interests therein;
 
 
(q) enter into, terminate or consent to the termination of any joint venture, jointly owned partnership or other similar joint ownership agreements other than such agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
(r) other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, make or incur, or become committed to, any capital expenditure;
(s) except as provided in , cancel, forgive, settle or compromise, waive, or release any right or claim (or series of related rights and claims) or any Action or Indebtedness, other than any such cancellation, forgiveness, settlement, compromise or release in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, which does not require the Nordic Companies to pay in excess of $1,000,000 and does not impose on the Nordic Companies any material ongoing obligation that extends past the Closing;
Section 6.4
(t) except as specifically provided in this Agreement, (i) make, change or rescind any material Tax election, (ii) make, change or rescind any material method of accounting, (iii) consent to any extension or waiver of any limitation period with respect to any material Taxes, (iv) make a request for a Tax ruling or enter into a closing agreement, or settle or compromise any material audit, assessment, Tax claim or other controversy relating to Taxes, (v) file any material amended Tax Return, or (vi) surrender any right to claim a refund or offset of any Taxes;
(u) adopt any plan of liquidation, dissolution, merger, consolidation, restructuring, recapitalization or other reorganization of any of the Nordic Companies;
(v) make any loans or advances of money other than (i) advances to the Nordic Companies in accordance with its cash management practices, consistent with past practice or (ii) loans or advances to customers of the Nordic Companies in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or (iii) in connection with actions permitted by ;
Section 6.1(m)
(w) transfer or grant to, or acquire from, any Person any rights with respect to any Intellectual Property Rights or dispose of or permit to lapse any rights in or to any Intellectual Property Rights or dispose of or disclose to any Person any trade secret, in each case except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
(x) agree or permit any material Policy or other material insurance arrangement naming a Nordic Company as (or to which the Nordic Business is) a beneficiary or loss-payable payee to be cancelled, extinguished or terminated without replacement or otherwise agree or permit any amendment or modification thereto which would materially adversely affect the Nordic Companies' rights with respect thereto existing on the date of this Agreement;
(y) dispose of or permit to lapse any environmental Permits material to the Nordic Business other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
(z) make any charitable contribution or engage in lobbying efforts other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; or
 
 
(aa) authorize or enter into a Contract or transaction, or otherwise make an agreement or commitment, which would be in contravention of any of the foregoing or the terms of this Agreement.
6.2 .
Access to Information Prior to the Closing; Confidentiality
(a) Subject to applicable Law, during the period from the date of this Agreement through the Closing, Seller shall, and shall cause the Nordic Companies to, give Buyer and its Representatives reasonable access during regular business hours to all offices, personnel, properties, facilities and Records of the Nordic Companies as they may reasonably request, and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to Buyer such financial and operating data and other information as exists with respect to the offices, personnel, properties, facilities and Records of the Nordic Companies as Buyer may from time to time reasonably request; , , that Buyer and its Representatives shall take such action in such a way as to avoid unreasonably disrupting the normal business of Seller, its Affiliates and the Nordic Companies. The parties shall cooperate to adopt such protocols as are reasonably necessary to comply with applicable Law in order to provide for the protection of any competitively sensitive information that may be shared by the parties pursuant to this Agreement.
provided
however
(b) Each of Buyer, Splitco and CCE shall hold and shall cause their respective Representatives to hold any information which it or they receive in connection with the activities and Transactions in strict confidence in accordance with and subject to the terms of the confidentiality agreement, dated as of November 13, 2008, between CCE and TCCC (the ""), which shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and any termination of this Agreement pursuant to hereof; , that this shall terminate and have no further force or effect following the Closing.
Confidentiality Agreement
Article VIII
provided
Section 6.2(b)
(c) From and after the date of this Agreement, subject to , Seller and TCCC shall hold, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries, Affiliates and Representatives to hold, any information relating to the Nordic Companies and the Nordic Business (the "") and the Transactions (the "") in strict confidence in accordance with the Confidentiality Agreement (in the case of Seller, as if it were a party thereto) and not disclose, use or release any such Nordic Business Confidential Information or Transaction Information without the prior written consent of Buyer; , that (i) the Nordic Business Confidential Information shall not include any information that is disclosed by Seller, TCCC, the Nordic Companies or their respective Representatives prior to the Closing in connection with the operation of the Nordic Business in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and (ii) the Nordic Business Confidential Information and Transaction Information shall not include any information that is or becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by Seller, TCCC or their respective Representatives in violation of this Agreement; , , that the provisions of this will not prohibit any retention of copies of Records required by any applicable Law or the disclosure of any information as required by Law or legal process. This shall terminate and have no further force or effect following the termination of this Agreement.
Section 6.7
Nordic Business Confidential Information
Transaction Information
provided
provided
further
Section 6.2(c)
Section 6.2(c)
 
 
(d) From and after the date of this Agreement, subject to , Splitco, CCE and Buyer shall hold, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries, Affiliates and Representatives to hold, any information relating to TCCC and its Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies) (the "") and Transaction Information in strict confidence in accordance with the Confidentiality Agreement and not disclose, use or release any such Other Business Confidential Information or Transaction Information without the prior written consent of TCCC; , that (i) the Other Business Confidential Information shall not include any information that is disclosed by Seller, its Affiliates or their respective Representatives prior to the Closing in connection with the operation of the TCCC Business in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and (ii) the Other Business Confidential Information and Transaction Information shall not include any information that is or becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by Splitco, CCE, Buyer or their respective Representatives in violation of this Agreement; , , that the provisions of this will not prohibit any retention of copies of Records required by any applicable Law or the disclosure of any information as required by Law or legal process. This shall terminate and have no further force or effect following the termination of this Agreement.
Section 6.7
Other Business Confidential Information
provided
provided
further
Section 6.2(d)
Section 6.2(d)
(e) The parties agree that they shall each be responsible for any breach or violation of the provisions of this by any of their respective Subsidiaries, Affiliates or Representatives.
Section 6.2
6.3 .
Records
(a) At the Closing or as soon as practicable thereafter (to the extent delivery occurs after the Closing), Seller shall deliver or cause to be delivered (including by delivery of the premises in which such Records are located) to Buyer to the extent reasonably practicable, all original agreements, documents, books, minute books, corporate charters and by-laws or comparable governing documents, records and files (including in electronic form) (collectively, ""), if any, in the possession of Seller or its Affiliates (other than the Nordic Companies) relating to the Nordic Companies to the extent not then in the possession of the Nordic Companies, , that Buyer recognizes that certain Records may contain incidental information relating to the Nordic Companies or may relate primarily to Subsidiaries or divisions of Seller and TCCC other than the Nordic Companies, and that such Records in the possession of Seller or TCCC may be retained by Seller or TCCC, who shall, to the extent requested to do so, instead of delivering these records, provide copies of the relevant portions thereof to Buyer.
Records
provided
(b) For a period equal to the greater of (x) seven (7) years following the Closing and (y) the period otherwise required by local law, upon reasonable notice, Buyer shall afford, and shall cause the Nordic Companies to afford, to Seller and Seller's Representatives reasonable access during normal business hours to examine and make copies of all books, records and personnel of the Nordic Business (i) which relate to transactions or events occurring prior to the Closing ("") or transactions or events occurring subsequent to the Closing which are related to or arise out of Pre-Closing Transactions, to the extent such Pre-Closing Transactions relate to matters for which Seller may be obligated to indemnify any Buyer Indemnified Party pursuant to this Agreement or as necessary to comply with applicable Law or legal process or financial reporting obligations or defend against any claims or
Pre-Closing Transactions
 
allegations made against Seller or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or Representatives or (ii) as reasonably required in connection with Seller's performance of its obligations under the Ancillary Agreements. Seller will, and will cause its respective Representatives to, hold in confidence, all confidential or proprietary information to which it is given access to pursuant to this subject to any disclosure required by Law or legal process.
Section 6.3
(c) For a period equal to the greater of (x) seven (7) years following the Closing and (y) the period otherwise required by local Law, upon reasonable notice, Seller shall afford to Buyer and its Representatives reasonable access during normal business hours to examine and make copies of, all books, records and personnel of Seller (i) which relate to Pre-Closing Transactions or transactions or events occurring subsequent to the Closing which are related to or arise out of Pre-Closing Transactions, to the extent such Pre-Closing Transactions relate to Liabilities of the Nordic Companies or as necessary to comply with applicable Law or legal process or financial reporting obligations or defend against any claims or allegations made against Buyer or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or Representatives related to the Nordic Business or (ii) as reasonably required in connection with Buyer's performance of its obligations under the Ancillary Agreements. Buyer will hold, and will cause its Representatives to hold, in confidence, all confidential or proprietary information to which it has had access to pursuant to this subject to any disclosure required by Law or legal process.
Section 6.3
(d) From and after the Closing, books and records pertaining to Taxes shall be governed by of this Agreement as well as this ; , , that in the case of any conflict of any provision with respect to books and records pertaining to Taxes as between and this, shall govern.
Article XI
Section 6.3
provided
however
Article XI
Section 6.3
Article XI
6.4 .
Notification of Certain Matters; Defense of Litigation
(a) Prior to the Closing, each of Buyer and Seller shall give written notice to the other promptly (and in any event not more than ten (10) Business Days) after becoming aware of the occurrence or non-occurrence of any event, the occurrence or non-occurrence of which, would be likely to cause any condition set forth in to be unsatisfied at the Closing.
Article VII
(b) Prior to the Closing, Seller shall give prompt notice to Buyer, and Buyer shall give prompt notice to Seller, of (i) any notice or other communication received by such party from any Governmental Entity in connection with the Transactions or from any Person alleging that the consent of such Person is or may be required in connection with the Transactions, if the subject matter of such communication or the failure of such party to obtain such consent could be material to the Nordic Business and (ii) any Action commenced or, to the Knowledge of Seller or the Knowledge of Buyer, as applicable, threatened against, relating to or involving or otherwise affecting such party or any of its Subsidiaries that relate to the Transactions. Prior to the Closing, Seller shall notify Buyer if the Nordic Companies incur any Liens on the Nordic Business Assets of a type described in clause (iv) of the definition of "Permitted Liens."
 
 
(c) Subject to , each of the parties hereto agrees to vigorously defend against all Actions in which such party or any of its Subsidiaries is named as a defendant which seek to enjoin, restrain or prohibit the Transactions or any part thereof or seek Losses with respect to any such transactions. The parties shall consult with each other in good faith with respect to the settlement of any Actions, that (i) neither Seller, its Subsidiaries nor any of its Affiliates shall settle any Action or fail to perfect on a timely basis any right to appeal any judgment rendered or ordered to the extent that any such action or inaction (or agreement entered into in connection therewith) would be binding on or otherwise require material payments by Buyer or any of the Nordic Companies, without the prior written consent of Buyer (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) and (ii) neither Buyer, its Subsidiaries nor any of its Affiliates shall settle any Action or fail to perfect on a timely basis any right to appeal any judgment rendered or ordered to the extent that any such action or inaction (or agreement entered into in connection therewith) would be binding on or otherwise require material payments by Seller or its Affiliates without the prior written consent of Seller (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed). Each of the parties further agrees to use its respective commercially reasonable efforts to cause each of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, directors and officers to vigorously defend any Action in which such Subsidiary or Affiliate, director or officer is named as a defendant and which seeks any such relief to comply with this to the same extent as if such Person were a party hereto. Seller or Buyer, as the case may be, shall give the other party, as applicable, the reasonable opportunity to participate, at Seller's or Buyer's sole expense, as applicable, in the defense of any Action by a third party against Seller or Buyer, as applicable, or their respective directors, officers or Affiliates relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby.
Section 6.6
provided
Section 6.4(c)
(d) At all times from and after the Closing, Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts to make available to the other, upon reasonable written request, their or any of their Subsidiaries' officers, directors, employees and agents as witnesses to the extent that (i) such individuals may reasonably be required in connection with the prosecution or defense of any Action which the requesting party may from time to time be involved (except for claims, demands or Actions between a Nordic Company or any of its Affiliates on the one hand and Seller or any of its Affiliates on the other hand) and (ii) there is no conflict in the Action between the requesting party and the other party. A party providing a witness to the other party under this Section shall be entitled to receive from the recipient of such services, upon the presentation of invoices therefor, payments for such amounts, relating to disbursements and other out-of-pocket expenses (which shall not include the costs of salaries and benefits of employees who are witnesses or any pro rata portion of overhead or other costs of employing such employees which would have been incurred by such employees' employer regardless of the employees' service as witnesses), as may be reasonably incurred and properly paid under applicable Law.
6.5 . Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain all consents and approvals of all third parties required under any Contracts that are required to be obtained in connection with the consummation of the Transactions or any Permits required in connection with the consummation of the Transactions and Buyer shall cooperate as reasonably requested by Seller; , that (x) none of Seller, its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates shall be required to make any payment of money or grant any concession and the Nordic Companies shall not enter into any agreement that would be binding on Buyer or any of the Nordic Companies following the Closing in connection with obtaining any such consent or Permit without the prior written consent of Buyer and (y) neither Buyer, its Subsidiaries nor any of its Affiliates shall be required to make any payment of money or grant any concession and
Consents; Approvals
provided
 
Buyer and its Affiliates shall not enter into any agreement that would be binding on Seller or any of its Affiliates following the Closing in connection with obtaining any such consent or Permit without the prior written consent of Seller. Each of the parties hereto shall make or cause to be made all filings and submissions under Laws applicable to it as may be required for the consummation of the Transactions. Buyer and Seller shall coordinate and cooperate with each other in exchanging such information and assistance as any of the parties hereto may reasonably request in connection with the foregoing. If any consent or approval required in connection with the assignment or transfer of any Contract (other than any Contract the treatment of which shall be governed by and ) is not obtained, or would be ineffective, violate any applicable Law or would adversely affect the rights of the Nordic Companies thereunder such that Buyer or the Nordic Companies would not receive all rights under such Contract contained in the Nordic Business Assets, Seller and Buyer shall cooperate in a mutually agreeable arrangement under which Buyer (directly or indirectly through the Nordic Companies) would obtain the benefits and assume the obligations thereunder in accordance with this Agreement, including sub-contracting, sub-licensing or sub-leasing to the applicable party, or under which Seller would enforce for the benefit of Buyer or the Nordic Companies, any and all rights of Seller against a third party thereto; , , that neither Seller nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be materially and adversely affected as a result of providing such benefits and any such arrangement is not otherwise covered by an Ancillary Agreement.
Sections 3.8
3.9
provided
however
6.6 . Buyer, Splitco and CCE, on the one hand, and Seller and TCCC, on the other hand, shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain all authorizations or waivers required under applicable Competition Law to consummate the Transactions, including (a) making all filings with the requisite Governmental Entity required in connection herewith and therewith as promptly as possible, (b) cooperating and consulting with one another to determine whether any other filings are required, or deemed advisable, to be made with, or consents, permits, authorizations or approvals are required, or are deemed advisable, to be obtained from any third party or any other Governmental Entity in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the Transactions, (c) timely making all such filings and timely seeking all such consents, permits, authorizations, approvals and waivers, and (d) generally, taking or causing to be taken, all other actions necessary to avoid or eliminate each and every impediment under any Competition Law that may be asserted by any Governmental Entity with respect to the Transactions so as to enable the Closing to occur as soon as reasonably possible. To the extent not expressly prohibited by applicable Law, Buyer, Splitco and CCE, on the one hand, and Seller and TCCC, on the other hand, shall cooperate, and cause their respective Representatives to cooperate, with the other and any Governmental Entity in taking all actions, and furnishing all information, reasonably necessary to obtain any approval, consent or termination of any applicable period from any such Governmental Entity, and shall comply promptly with all legal requirements that may be imposed on it with respect to the Closing. In connection with the actions and procedures referenced in this , Buyer, Splitco and CCE, on the one hand, and Seller and TCCC, on the other hand, shall, and shall cause their respective Representatives to, (i) promptly and fully inform the other of any written or material oral communication received from or given to any Governmental Entity, (ii) subject to reasonable concerns regarding confidentiality of any information that is the subject thereof, permit the other to review any submission by Buyer, Splitco or CCE, on the one hand, and Seller or TCCC, on the other hand, to any Governmental Entity, (iii) consult with the other in advance of any meeting, material conference or material discussion with any Governmental Entity, and
Antitrust Notification
Section 6.6
 
(iv) subject to reasonable concerns regarding confidentiality of any information that is addressed therein, if permitted to do so by the relevant Governmental Entity, give the other the opportunity to attend and participate in any such meetings, conferences and discussions. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Buyer, Splitco and CCE, on the one hand, and Seller and TCCC, on the other hand, will use their respective reasonable best efforts to offer to take, or cause to be taken, all other actions and do, or cause to be done, all other things necessary, proper or advisable to consummate and make effective the Transactions, including taking all such further action as reasonably may be necessary to resolve such objections, if any, as any Governmental Entity or any other Person may assert under any Law with respect to the Transactions, and to avoid or eliminate each and every impediment under any Law that may be asserted by any Governmental Entity with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby so as to enable the Closing to occur as soon as expeditiously possible; , , that (i) nothing in this shall require, or be construed to require, Buyer or any of its respective Subsidiaries to take any action, including respond to and/or defend any court or administrative proceeding, propose or make any divestiture or other undertaking, or propose or enter into any consent decree or to take any action which Buyer reasonably determines could be material to the benefits expected to be derived by Splitco as a result of the transactions contemplated hereby or be material to the business of Splitco and its Subsidiaries or the Nordic Companies as currently conducted or as contemplated to be conducted following the transactions contemplated hereby, and (ii) Seller and TCCC shall not take (or permit any of their Affiliates to take) any action described in clause (i) above without Buyer's prior written consent; , , that if Buyer does not provide its written consent after being requested to do so, Seller and TCCC will not be liable for failing to take any such action, but this shall not affect Seller's or TCCC's obligation to otherwise take action required by this , subject to Buyer's consent, if applicable.
provided
however
Section 6.6
provided
further
Section 6.6
6.7 . Each of Buyer, Splitco and CCE, on the one hand, and Seller and TCCC, on the other hand, shall not, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries not to, issue any public report, statement or press release or otherwise make any public statement with respect to this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions, from the date hereof through the Closing, without prior consultation with and approval of the other party (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), except as may be required by Law or securities exchange regulations applicable to any such party, in which case such party shall advise the other party and discuss the contents of the disclosure before issuing any such report, statement or press release. In addition, prior to the Closing, none of Seller or TCCC, on the one hand, or Buyer, Splitco or CCE, on the other hand, shall send any general written communication to suppliers, lenders, creditors, distributors, employees, customers or others having business or financial relationships with the Nordic Business pertaining to this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions, without the prior written approval of the other party (which approval will not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed).
Public Announcements
6.8 .
Financial Statements
(a) Seller shall, as promptly as practicable following the execution of this Agreement (but no later than April 26, 2010), prepare and deliver to Buyer, (i) an audited consolidated balance sheet of the Nordic Companies (separate for Norway and Sweden and with intercompany account information) at December 31, 2008 and 2009 and related audited
 
consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Nordic Companies for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 (collectively, the ""), together with a report without qualification or exception of the auditors of the Nordic Companies, which Audited Nordic Financial Statements will present fairly in all material respects the financial position and results of operations of the Nordic Companies as of the dates and for the periods presented and (ii) an unaudited balance sheet of the Nordic Companies (separate for Norway and Sweden and with intercompany account information) at December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 and related unaudited statements of income and cash flows of the Nordic Companies for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006 (collectively, the ""). In the event that the Closing has not occurred prior to such time as documents required to be filed by CCE or Splitco under the applicable rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission would require inclusion of an audited balance sheet of the Nordic Companies at December 31, 2010 and related audited statements of income and cash flows of the Nordic Companies for the year ended December 31, 2010, Seller shall use reasonable best efforts to prepare and deliver such financial statements as promptly as practicable following such date, together with a report without qualification or exception of the auditors of the Nordic Companies, which financial statements will present fairly in all material respects the financial position and results of operations of the Nordic Companies as of the dates and for the periods presented.
Audited Nordic Financial Statements
Unaudited Nordic Financial Statements
(b) Seller shall promptly prepare and deliver to Buyer after the date hereof, monthly (within thirty (30) days of the end of each Accounting Cycle) and quarterly (within thirty (30) days of the end of each fiscal quarter), unaudited balance sheets of the Nordic Companies (separate for Norway and Sweden and with intercompany account information) and related unaudited statements of income and cash flows of the Nordic Companies setting forth, in each case, in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year in such forms as have been prepared for internal management purposes (which will not include quarter-end and other adjustments) (collectively, the "") until such time specified in, and subject to such further action required by, of the Seller Disclosure Letter. Concurrently with the delivery of the quarterly Nordic Interim Statements, Seller shall provide Buyer with a certificate of the General Manager, Chief Financial Officer, or a similar officer of a Nordic Company to the effect that the quarterly Nordic Interim Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP and, except for the absence of normal year end closing procedures and adjustments, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition and operations of each Nordic Company, as applicable.
Nordic Interim Statements
Section 6.8
6.9 .
Payments of Receivables after Closing
(a) In the event that following the Closing, Seller or any of its Affiliates receives any payments in respect of any receivables of the Nordic Business arising after the Closing, Seller shall, or shall cause the applicable Affiliate to, receive such payment as the agent for the Nordic Companies and deliver such payment to the Nordic Companies promptly after such receipt.
(b) In the event that following the Closing, Buyer or any of its Affiliates receives any payments in respect of any receivables of the TCCC Businesses arising after the Closing, Buyer shall, or shall cause the applicable Affiliate to, receive such payment as the agent for TCCC or its Affiliate that is entitled to such receivables and deliver such payment to TCCC or its applicable Affiliate promptly after such receipt.
 
 
6.10 .
[Reserved]
6.11 . If any Takeover Statute is or may become applicable to the Sale or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, Seller shall and shall cause its Affiliates, including the Nordic Companies, to grant all such approvals and take all such actions as are reasonably necessary or advisable so that such transactions may be consummated as promptly as practicable on the terms contemplated by this Agreement and otherwise act to eliminate or minimize the effects of such statute, regulation or provision in the applicable organizational documents of the Nordic Companies on such transactions.
Takeover Statutes
6.12 .
Directors and Officers Indemnification
(a) From and after the Closing, Buyer shall cause the Nordic Companies to honor and fulfill in all material respects the obligations of the Nordic Companies under any and all indemnification agreements between the Nordic Companies and any of their respective current or former directors and officers and any Person who becomes a director or officer of the Nordic Companies prior to the Closing (such agreements, the "" and such Persons, ""). In addition, during the period commencing at the Closing and ending on the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Closing, Buyer shall cause the charters and bylaws of the Nordic Companies (and other similar organizational documents) to contain provisions with respect to indemnification, exculpation and the advancement of expenses that are at least as favorable as the indemnification, exculpation and advancement of expenses provisions set forth in the charters and bylaws (or other similar organizational documents) of such Nordic Companies as of the date hereof, and during such six-year period such provisions shall not be repealed, amended or otherwise modified in any manner adverse to any Indemnified Person except as required by applicable Law.
Indemnity Agreements
Indemnified Persons
(b) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , during the period commencing at the Closing and ending on the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Closing, the Nordic Companies shall (and Buyer shall cause the Nordic Companies to) indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnified Person from and against any Losses in connection with any Action, to the extent such Action arises directly or indirectly out of or pertains directly or indirectly to any action or omission or alleged action or omission in such Indemnified Person's capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent of Seller or any of its Subsidiaries or other Affiliates for such action or omission, or alleged action or omission, that occurred prior to or at the Closing; , , that if, at any time prior to the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Closing, any Indemnified Person delivers to Buyer a written notice asserting a claim for indemnification under this, then the claim asserted in such notice shall survive the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Closing until such time as such claim is fully and finally resolved. In the event of any such claim, proceeding, investigation or inquiry, (i) the Nordic Companies shall have the right to control the defense thereof after the Closing (it being understood that, by electing to control the defense thereof, the Nordic Companies will be deemed to have waived any right to object to the Indemnified Person's entitlement to indemnification hereunder with respect thereto unless it is ultimately determined that such Indemnified Person is
Section 6.12(a)
provided
however
Section 6.12(b)
 
not entitled to indemnification under Law), and (ii) each Indemnified Person shall be entitled at his or her sole cost and expense to retain his or her own counsel, whether or not the Nordic Companies shall elect to control the defense of any such claim, proceeding, investigation or inquiry. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this or elsewhere in this Agreement, neither Buyer nor any of its Affiliates (including the Nordic Companies) shall settle or otherwise compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment or otherwise seek termination with respect to any claim, proceeding, investigation or inquiry for which indemnification may be sought by an Indemnified Person under this Agreement unless such settlement, compromise, consent or termination includes a full release of all Indemnified Persons from all liability arising out of such claim, proceeding, investigation or inquiry.
Section 6.12
(c) If the Nordic Companies (or Buyer) or any of their successors or assigns shall (i) consolidate with or merge into any other Person and shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation or entity of such consolidation or merger, or (ii) transfer all or substantially all of their properties and assets to any Person, then, and in each such case, proper provisions shall be made so that the successors and assigns of the Nordic Companies shall assume all of the obligations of the Nordic Companies (or Buyer) set forth in this .
Section 6.12
(d) The obligations set forth in this shall not be terminated, amended or otherwise modified in any manner that adversely affects any Indemnified Person without the prior written consent of such affected Indemnified Person. Each of the Indemnified Persons is intended to be a third party beneficiary of this , with full rights of enforcement as if a party thereto. The rights of the Indemnified Persons under this shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for, any other rights that such Persons may have under the charters, bylaws or other equivalent organizational documents, any and all indemnification agreements of or entered into by Seller or any of its Affiliates, or applicable Law (whether at law or in equity).
Section 6.12
Section 6.12(d)
Section 6.12
(e) The obligations and liability of the Nordic Companies, Splitco and their respective Subsidiaries under this shall be joint and several. Nothing in this is intended to (i) limit the rights of any Seller Indemnified Party to indemnification from Seller to the extent provided for in in respect of amounts paid pursuant to this or (ii) entitle any party to recover any amounts in connection with this to the extent that such party or any of its Affiliates has already recovered such amount pursuant to this Agreement.
Section 6.12
Section 6.12
Article IX
Section 6.12
Section 6.12
(f) Notwithstanding , nothing in this Agreement is intended to, shall be construed to or shall release, waive or impair any rights to directors' and officers' insurance claims under any Policy that is or has been in existence with respect to Seller or any of its Affiliates for any of their respective directors, officers or other employees, it being understood and agreed that the indemnification provided for in this is not prior to or in substitution for any such claims under such Policies.
Section 3.7
Section 6.12
(g) Buyer shall, and shall cause each of the Nordic Companies and their respective boards of directors to, at the first annual shareholders' meeting of each of the Nordic Companies following the Closing, discharge in full from any liability each current and former board member and deputy board member and, where applicable, the managing director, of each of the Nordic Companies.
 
 
6.13 .
Further Assurances
(a) At any time and from time to time upon and after the Closing, as and when required or deemed desirable by Seller or Buyer or their respective successors or assigns, there shall be executed, acknowledged, certified, sealed, delivered, filed, and/or recorded, in the name and on behalf of any and each of Buyer, Seller, TCCC, CCE or Splitco, such deeds, contracts, consents, certificates, notices, and other documents and instruments, and there shall be done or taken or caused to be done or taken, in the name and on behalf of any and each of Buyer, Seller, TCCC, CCE or Splitco such further and other things and actions as shall be appropriate, necessary, or convenient to acknowledge, vest, effect, perfect, conform of record, or otherwise confirm Buyer's or Seller's (or their respective successors' or assigns') right, title, and interest in kind to, and possession of, all the property, interests, assets, rights, privileges, immunities, powers, franchises, and authority of each of Buyer and Seller held immediately prior to the Closing, and otherwise to carry out and effect the intent and purposes of this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions. The officers and directors of Buyer, Splitco, CCE, the Nordic Companies, TCCC and Seller (or their respective successors or assigns), and each of them, upon and after the Closing, are and shall be fully authorized, in the name and on behalf of each of Buyer, Splitco, CCE, the Nordic Companies, TCCC and Seller, respectively, to do and take and cause to be done and taken any and all such things and actions, and to execute, acknowledge, certify, seal, deliver, file, and/or record any and all such deeds, contracts, consents, certificates, notices, and other documents and instruments.
(b) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each of the parties hereto shall, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates to, take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Laws to consummate the Transactions. From time to time after the date hereof, at the request of the other party hereto and at the expense of the party so requesting, Buyer, Seller, TCCC, CCE or Splitco shall (i) execute and deliver to such requesting party such documents, shall file with the appropriate Governmental Entities all documents necessary or appropriate and take such other action as such requesting party may reasonably request in order to consummate the Transactions and (ii) to the extent that any transfers or additional permits and other governmental authorizations are required to consummate the Transactions, Seller, TCCC and their Subsidiaries and Affiliates agree to cooperate with the Nordic Companies to effect such transfers and obtain such permits and other governmental authorizations prior to the Closing.
6.14 . Seller and Buyer shall cooperate with each other and, if applicable, the management of the Nordic Companies, in connection with complying with any requirement to notify, consult with, receive the opinion of, or obtain the consent of any Union that is required by applicable Law or Contract in connection with the Transactions.
Union or Works Council Cooperation
 
 
6.15 . Subject to applicable Law and except as provided in an employment agreement between a Continuing Employee and any of the Nordic Companies, Buyer and Seller agree as follows:
Employee Matters
(a) . From the Closing through and including December 31, 2011, Splitco shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, provide or cause to be provided to the non-represented Continuing Employees (i) salary, wages and annual cash bonus opportunities that are substantially comparable in the aggregate to those in effect immediately prior to the Closing, retaining each Nordic Company's pay and bonus structure, salary bands, compensation ranges and target bonus levels within such salary bands, as in effect immediately prior to the Closing, and (ii) benefits (other than equity-based compensation) that are substantially comparable in the aggregate to the benefits provided to the Continuing Employees immediately prior to the Closing under the Benefit Plans listed in of the Seller Disclosure Letter, in each case, subject to the Continuing Employee's continued employment with Splitco or one of its Affiliates; , , that with respect to the Continuing Employees set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter, Splitco shall, and, if applicable, shall cause its Subsidiaries to, use commercially reasonable best efforts to provide such individuals with substantially comparable salary, bonus opportunities, benefits and expatriate allowances in accordance with applicable Law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Splitco and the Nordic Companies shall continue, to the extent applicable, (i) the outstanding long-term cash-based incentives, including the performance criteria with respect to the year 2010 under the long-term cash incentive plans and (ii) the annual cash-based incentives applicable to the 2010 calendar year, in each case, in accordance with the terms of such programs as of the date hereof and previously disclosed to Buyer, CCE or Splitco; , , that for any long-term cash incentive plans that commenced in 2010, such performance criteria must be continued only for 2010.
Level of Compensation and Benefits
Section 4.14(a)
provided
however
Section 6.15(a)
provided
however
(b) . On or immediately following the Closing Date, Splitco shall grant new equity awards to Continuing Employees under a Splitco shareholder-approved equity compensation plan as follows:
TCCC Equity Awards Held By Continuing Employees
(i) . Splitco shall grant options to acquire Splitco common stock ("") and/or restricted stock units ("") to each Continuing Employee, which Splitco Options and/or Splitco RSUs shall have a value on the Closing Date (based on a reasonable Black-Scholes value for stock option grants and based on the fair value for whole share-based awards) that is substantially comparable to the value on the Closing Date (based on a reasonable Black-Scholes value) of the outstanding options to acquire TCCC common stock ("") that are held by such Continuing Employee immediately prior to the Closing and are (1) vested and have an exercise price that exceeds the closing price of TCCC common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the full trading day occurring on or immediately before the Closing Date or (2) unvested. Each Splitco Option and Splitco RSU shall have terms and conditions, including vesting, that are no less favorable than the terms applicable to the corresponding TCCC Option.
Options
Splitco Options
Splitco RSUs
TCCC
Options
(ii) . Splitco shall grant performance stock units ("") to each Continuing Employee, which Splitco Units shall have a value on the Closing Date (based on a reasonable fair value) substantially comparable to the value on the Closing Date (based on a reasonable fair value) of the target number of unvested TCCC performance stock units ("") held by such Continuing Employee as of immediately prior to the Closing. The Splitco Units shall have terms and conditions,
Performance Units
Splitco Units
TCCC
Units
 
including vesting, that are no less favorable than the terms applicable to TCCC Units; , that Splitco shall have the discretion to select any reasonable performance measure applicable to such Splitco Units. TCCC shall provide certified performance results to Splitco no later than March 31, 2011, with respect to any performance period ending in 2010.
provided
To the extent either of the grants described in or are not permitted under applicable Law, Splitco and TCCC shall mutually agree to an alternate approach that delivers the same economic value and complies with applicable Law. No later than April 1, 2010, TCCC or the Nordic Companies will deliver a schedule to Splitco of all outstanding equity grants, as of the most recent practicable date, held by individuals who are expected to become Continuing Employees as of the Closing,
Section 6.15(b)(i)
Section 6.15(b)(ii)
(c) .
Annual Equity Awards
(i) TCCC shall not grant any equity-based awards to any Continuing Employee from the date of this Agreement through the Closing other than equity-based awards made (A) to newly hired employees, within one year following the employee's date of hire, that are in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with TCCC and the Nordic Companies' past practice of compensating newly hired employees or (B) with the consent of CCE, which consent shall not be unreasonably, withheld, conditioned or delayed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that as of December 16, 2010, the parties reasonably determine that the Closing shall not occur prior to March 15, 2011, following consultation with CCE, TCCC may make grants of equity-based awards no later than March 15, 2011 to Continuing Employees that are in accordance with past practice and guidelines with respect to annual grants made most recently in February 2010 to the Continuing Employees and that do not have an aggregate value as of the grant date (based on a reasonable Black-Scholes valuation or grant date fair value methodology, as applicable, to be agreed upon between CCE and TCCC) that is greater than the aggregate value as of the grant date of the aggregate annual equity awards made by TCCC in February 2010 to the Continuing Employees.
(ii) To the extent that (x) the Closing occurs during the period beginning on October 15, 2010 and ending on December 15, 2010 (the ""), and (y) CCE makes an annual grant of equity-based awards during such Interim Period to eligible CCE employees, Splitco shall make a grant of equity-based awards to the Continuing Employees immediately following the Closing Date, with such grant made in a manner consistent with TCCC's target award levels, award ranges, and performance adjustment criteria employed in such February 2010 annual equity grant by TCCC; , , that such grants shall only be made to those Continuing Employees who were eligible to receive an annual equity grant in February 2010, or would be eligible to receive an annual equity grant in February 2011; and , , that, in no event shall such grant have an aggregate value as of the grant date (based on a reasonable Black-Scholes valuation or grant date fair value methodology, as applicable, to be agreed upon between TCCC and Splitco) that is greater than the aggregate value on the grant date of the aggregate annual equity awards made by TCCC in February 2010 to such employees.
Interim Period
provided
however
provided
further
 
 
(iii) To the extent that the Closing occurs after December 15, 2010, at such time after the Closing as Splitco makes its regular annual equity awards to its employees in 2011, Splitco shall provide equity-based awards to Continuing Employees who hold a position that was (or, in the case of a new hire, would have been) eligible to receive an equity grant from TCCC in 2010, having a substantially comparable value in the aggregate, for a comparable number of employees, as of the grant date (based on a reasonable Black-Scholes value for stock option grants and based on the grant date fair value for whole share-based awards) as awarded by TCCC to employees providing services to the Nordic Companies in February 2010, with such grant made in a manner consistent with TCCC's target award levels, award ranges, and performance adjustment criteria employed in such February 2010 annual equity grant by TCCC; , , that Splitco shall have no obligation to replicate the form of award or the terms and conditions of awards previously granted by TCCC, including, without limitation, the number of shares to be subject to such Splitco equity-based awards and the vesting conditions and exercise or purchase price of such Splitco equity-based awards.
provided
however
(d) . Set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter is a list, as of the date of this Agreement, of each employee of TCCC who is providing services to TCCC, other than any of the Nordic Companies, on international assignment and who was, just prior to such international assignment, providing services to any of the Nordic Companies, such employee's employer and the entity to which such employee is providing services as of the date of this Agreement. No later than August 1, 2010, CCE shall notify TCCC of the actions, if any, that TCCC should take to facilitate the transfer of the employment, or the continuation of the international assignment, of the individuals set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter.
Nordic Companies Expatriate Employees
Section 6.15(d)
Section 6.15(d)
(e) . Splitco and its Subsidiaries shall be responsible for the severance costs, if any, of any Continuing Employee or former employee of any Nordic Company, whether the employee's termination of employment occurs before, on or after the Closing.
Severance
(f) . Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, nothing contained in this Agreement shall (A) be construed to establish, amend or modify any benefit plan, program or arrangement, or (B) alter or limit the ability of TCCC, the Nordic Companies, CCE, Splitco or any of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates, whether prior to, as of or following the Closing, to amend, modify or terminate any benefit plan, program, agreement or arrangement at any time assumed, established, sponsored or maintained by any of them, in accordance with the terms of such plan, program, agreement or arrangement and applicable Laws.
Amendment or Termination of Plans
(g) . Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting Splitco or the Nordic Companies from terminating the employment of any Continuing Employee at any time following the Closing for any or no reason.
No Guarantee of Employment
(h) . Without limiting the generality of any provision in this Agreement, each of TCCC, CCE, Buyer and Seller shall cooperate with the other parties hereto in establishing, as soon as practicable following the date
Cooperation on Employee Communications
 
of this Agreement, protocols for communications with the individuals who are expected to become Continuing Employees concerning the nature of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
(i) . From the Closing until December 31, 2011 (the ""), TCCC shall not, without the express written consent of Splitco, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, solicit for employment with TCCC or any Subsidiary of TCCC any Person (a) who is a Continuing Employee or (b) who is a former employee of any of the Nordic Companies (or their respective Subsidiaries) whose employment is terminated at any time after the date of this Agreement, during the first sixty (60) days following such termination of employment, or, in any case, in any way interfere with the relationship between any of the Nordic Companies or any of their respective Subsidiaries and any such Person. During the Restricted Period, each of Splitco and the Nordic Companies shall not, without the express written consent of TCCC, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, solicit for employment with Splitco or any of the Nordic Companies or any of their respective Subsidiaries any Person (a) who is an employee of TCCC, CCE or their respective Affiliates or (b) who is a former employee of TCCC, CCE or their respective Affiliates (other than Splitco, the Nordic Companies or any of their respective Subsidiaries) whose employment is terminated at any time after the date of this Agreement, during the first sixty (60) days following such termination of employment, or, in any case, in any way interfere with the relationship between TCCC, CCE or their respective Affiliates (other than Splitco, the Nordic Companies or any of their respective Subsidiaries) and any such Person. The foregoing restrictions shall not apply to any Person whose employment with TCCC, CCE or their respective Affiliates or any of the Nordic Companies (or their respective Subsidiaries), as applicable, terminates involuntarily, and shall not apply to general solicitations or advertisements not specifically directed to employees of any of TCCC, CCE or their respective Affiliates or the Nordic Companies or their respective Subsidiaries, as applicable, or solicitations by search firms or other similar entities that have not been instructed to solicit such employees.
No Solicitation; No Employment
Restricted Period
7.1 . The respective obligations of Seller and Buyer to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, waiver, of each of the following conditions:
Mutual Conditions
(a) . Any (i) waiting period (and extensions thereof) applicable to the transactions contemplated hereby under any applicable Competition Law shall have expired or been terminated, and (ii) any other clearances, consents, approvals, orders and authorizations of Governmental Entities under any applicable Competition Law shall have been obtained.
Requisite Regulatory Approvals
(b) . No Law shall be in effect preventing consummation of the Sale and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
No Legal Prohibition
 
 
(c) . There shall not be pending any Action by any Governmental Entity relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement that, if the relief requested were granted, would prevent the consummation of the Transactions or materially and adversely affect the Sale or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, or Seller and its Affiliates, taken as a whole, on the one hand, or, Splitco, Buyer, the Nordic Companies and their respective Subsidiaries (after giving effect to the Transactions), taken as a whole, on the other hand.
No Governmental Actions
(d) . The condition set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter shall have been satisfied.
Other Matters
Section 7.1(d)
7.2 . The obligations of Buyer and, if applicable, CCE to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction of each of the following conditions (any or all of which may be waived in writing in whole or in part by Buyer):
Conditions to the Obligations of Buyer and CCE
(a) . The representations and warranties of Seller and TCCC contained in this Agreement shall be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "in all material respects," "in any material respect," "material," "materiality" or "Material Adverse Effect" set forth therein) as of the date of this Agreement and at and as of the Closing with the same force and effect as if made at and as of the Closing (other than those representations and warranties that address matters only as of a particular date or only with respect to a specific period of time, which need only be true and correct as of such date or with respect to such period), except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "in all material respects," "in any material respect," "material," "materiality" or "Material Adverse Effect" set forth therein) would not, individually or in the aggregate, (A) result in a Material Adverse Effect or (B) prevent or materially delay Seller and TCCC from consummating the transactions contemplated hereby.
Representations and Warranties
(b) . Seller and TCCC shall have performed and complied, in all material respects, with all agreements and covenants required by this Agreement to be so performed or complied with by Seller and TCCC at or prior to the Closing.
Performance
(c) . Since the date of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred a Material Adverse Effect that is continuing.
Material Adverse Effect
(d) . Seller shall have delivered to Buyer a certificate, dated as of the Closing Date, executed by an executive officer of Seller, certifying the fulfillment of the conditions specified in , and hereof.
Officer's Certificate
Sections 7.2(a)
7.2(b)
7.2(c)
(e) . Seller and TCCC (or one of their appropriately designated Subsidiaries or Affiliates), as applicable, shall have executed and delivered each of the Ancillary Agreements, substantially in the forms agreed to by the parties pursuant to .
Ancillary Agreements
Section 3.1
 
 
7.3 . The obligations of Seller to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction of each of the following conditions (any or all of which may be waived in writing in whole or in part by Seller):
Conditions to the Obligations of Seller
(a) . The representations and warranties of Buyer, CCE and Splitco contained in this Agreement shall be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "in all material respects," "in any material respect," "material" or "materiality" set forth therein) as of the date of this Agreement and at and as of the Closing with the same force and effect as if made at and as of the Closing (other than those representations and warranties that address matters only as of a particular date or only with respect to a specific period of time, which need only be true and correct as of such date or with respect to such period), except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "in all material respects," "in any material respect," "material" or "materiality" set forth therein) would not, individually or in the aggregate, prevent or materially delay Buyer, CCE and Splitco from consummating the transactions contemplated hereby.
Representations and Warranties
(b) . Buyer, Splitco and CCE shall have performed and complied, in all material respects, with all agreements and covenants required by this Agreement to be so performed or complied with by Buyer, Splitco and CCE at or prior to the Closing.
Performance
(c) . Buyer shall have delivered to Seller a certificate, dated as of the Closing Date, executed by an executive officer of Buyer, certifying the fulfillment of the conditions specified in and hereof.
Officer's Certificate
Sections 7.3(a)
7.3(b)
(d) . Buyer and Splitco (or one of their appropriately designated Subsidiaries or Affiliates), as applicable, shall have executed and delivered each of the Ancillary Agreements, substantially in the forms agreed to by the parties pursuant to .
Ancillary Agreements
Section 3.1
8.1 . This Agreement may be terminated and the Transactions may be abandoned at any time prior to the Closing:
Termination of Agreement
(a) by mutual written agreement of Buyer and Seller;
(b) by Buyer or Seller at any time after the nine (9)-month anniversary of the date hereof; , that if, as of such date, (i) the approvals required pursuant to shall not have been obtained, (ii) there is a pending Action by any Governmental Entity seeking to prevent the consummation of the Sale, or (iii) the event set forth in of the Seller Disclosure Letter shall have occurred, then either Buyer or Seller may, in their sole discretion, extend such date for an additional six (6) months (such date, as extended, the ""), upon five (5) Business Days' prior written notice to the other party, if the Closing shall not have occurred for any reason on or prior to the Termination Date, , , that if, as of the Termination Date, the conditions set forth in hereof have been satisfied or waived (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, but
provided
Section 7.1(a)
Section 8.1(b)
Termination Date
provided
however
Article VII
 
subject to the satisfaction or waiver of those conditions) such that the Closing is to occur in accordance with on the first day of the Accounting Cycle beginning after the Termination Date, then the Termination Date shall be extended until such date; , , that the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this shall not be available to any party whose failure to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement required to be performed by it at or prior to the Closing has been the cause of, or resulted in, the failure of the Closing to occur;
Section 2.4
provided
further
Section 8.1(b)
(c) by Buyer, if Seller or TCCC shall have breached or failed to perform any of its representations, warranties, covenants or agreements set forth in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (i) would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in or of this Agreement and (ii) is incapable of being cured (or is not cured) by Seller or TCCC by the Termination Date; , , that the failure of any such condition to be capable of satisfaction is not the result of a material breach of this Agreement by Buyer, Splitco or CCE;
Section 7.2(a)
7.2(b)
provided
however
(d) by Seller, if Buyer, Splitco or CCE shall have breached or failed to perform any of its representations, warranties, covenants or agreements set forth in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (i) would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in or of this Agreement, and (ii) is incapable of being cured (or is not cured) by Buyer, Splitco or CCE by the Termination Date; , , that the failure of any such condition to be capable of satisfaction is not the result of a material breach of this Agreement by Seller or TCCC;
Sections 7.3(a)
7.3(b)
provided
however
(e) by Buyer or Seller, if any court of competent jurisdiction or any Governmental Entity shall have issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any other action permanently enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and such order, decree, ruling or other action shall have become final and non-appealable; or
(f) by Buyer or Seller, as provided by of the Seller Disclosure Letter.
Section 8.1(f)
8.2 .
Procedure and Effect of Termination
(a) In the event of the termination of this Agreement and the abandonment of the Transactions pursuant to hereof, written notice thereof shall be given by the party so terminating to the other party to this Agreement, and this Agreement shall terminate and the Transactions shall be abandoned without further action by Buyer or Seller; , , if this Agreement is terminated and the Transactions are abandoned as described in this , this Agreement shall become null and void and of no further force or effect, except for the obligations provided for in , this and hereof, the confidentiality provision contained in hereof and the Confidentiality Agreement referred to in such Section, each of which shall survive any such termination of this Agreement without limitation.
Section 8.1
provided
however
Section 8.2
Section 6.7
Section 8.2
Article X
Section 6.2(b)
 
 
9.1 . The representations and warranties in this Agreement and the certificates delivered pursuant to and shall survive the Closing until the date that is one (1) year from the Closing Date; , , that (a) the representations and warranties in (Organization and Qualification); (Authority); (Ownership of Shares); (Capitalization; Subsidiaries) (other than clause (f) thereof); (No Violation; Consents and Approvals) (but only with respect to clause (iv) thereof); (Compliance with Laws; Permits) (but only with respect to The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or any similar Law); and (Organization; Authority) hereof shall survive indefinitely (the representations and warranties set forth in this clause (a), the ""), (b) the representations and warranties in (Title to Personal Property), (Major Suppliers and Customers), (Intercompany Agreements), (Related Party Transactions), (Takeover Statutes; Other Restrictions), (Brokers) and (Brokers) shall not survive the Closing and (c) the representations and warranties in (Taxes) and the covenant in shall survive the Closing for a period equal to ninety (90) days following the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations, taking into account any extensions thereof. The covenants and agreements of each party shall survive the Closing for the period specified therein, and if not specified, indefinitely; that the covenants contained in (other than and ), and (other than and ) shall survive one year from the Closing Date; , , that the provisions of (Net Working Capital Adjustment) and (Purchase Price Adjustment), shall apply to claims arising with respect to the subject matter of those Sections, rather than the provisions of this , except to the extent set forth in and . If any party makes a claim with respect to any specific representation, warranty, covenant or agreement within the time period described in this , and such claim is not fully and finally resolved prior to the expiration of such time period, such representation, warranty, covenant or agreement shall survive solely with respect to such claim until such claim is finally and fully resolved.
Survival
Section 7.2(d)
7.3(c)
provided
however
Sections 4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5(a)
4.19
5.1
Fundamental Representations
Sections 4.9
4.18
4.22
4.23
4.26
4.28
5.4
Section 4.15
Section 6.1(t)
provided
Sections 6.1
6.1(d)
(t)
6.4
6.4(c)
(d)
provided
further
Section 2.3
2.5
Article IX
Sections 9.1
9.8
Section 9.1
9.2 . From and after Closing, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this , Seller shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Buyer and its Affiliates (including the Nordic Companies) and their respective officers, directors, and employees (the "") (it being agreed that any indemnification payments shall be made to Buyer), from and against all damages, judgments, awards, liabilities, losses, fines, obligations, amounts paid in settlement, claims of any kind or nature and costs, fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, auditors, consultants and other agents), excluding, except as specifically set forth in , lost profits, lost revenues, special, consequential, indirect and punitive damages (other than lost profits, lost revenues, special, consequential, indirect and punitive damages actually paid in connection with any third party claim) (collectively, ""), asserted against, resulting from, imposed upon or suffered or incurred by Buyer Indemnified Parties by reason of or arising from:
Seller's Agreement to Indemnify
Article IX
Buyer Indemnified Parties
Section 10.13
Losses
(a) any failure of any representation or warranty of Seller set forth in this Agreement or the certificates delivered pursuant to that survives after the Closing pursuant to to be true and correct in all respects as of the date hereof and as of the
Section 7.2(d)
Section 9.1
 
Closing (except to the extent expressly made as of an earlier date, in which case the failure of such representations and warranties to be so true and correct shall be measured as of such earlier date) as such representation or warranty would read if all qualifications to materiality, including each reference to the term Material Adverse Effect, were deleted therefrom;
(b) the breach of any covenant or agreement by Seller or its Affiliates contained in this Agreement; and
(c) any Transaction Expenses payable by Seller and its Affiliates in accordance with .
Section 10.1
9.3 . Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary (except for Tax matters which shall be governed by of this Agreement), the obligation of Seller to indemnify Buyer Indemnified Parties pursuant to (A)  against any Losses sustained by reason of any claim with respect to the breach of a representation or warranty (other than Losses (i) arising out of, relating to or resulting from breaches or inaccuracies of any Fundamental Representation or (ii) arising out of or resulting from fraud or willful material breach by Seller (such Losses in (i) and (ii), collectively, the "")) or (B)  against any Losses sustained by reason of any claim with respect to the breach by Seller of a covenant, shall be limited to claims as to which a Buyer Indemnified Party has given Seller written notice, setting forth therein in reasonable detail the basis for such claim, on or prior to the termination of such representation or warranty or covenant pursuant to hereof; , , that the provisions for indemnification contained in  (other than for Losses constituting Seller Uncapped Claims) shall be effective only after the aggregate amount of all such claims which are so indemnifiable exceeds an amount equal to eleven million five hundred thousand dollars ($11,500,000) (the ""), and only to the extent of such excess; , , that Seller shall not be liable to any Buyer Indemnified Party for any particular claim under (other than for Losses constituting Seller Uncapped Claims), unless the amount of such claim exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000) (the "") and is in excess of any reserves reflected on the 2009 Financial Statements set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter with respect to such Losses and all such Losses in respect of any claim or series of related claims which total less than the De Minimis Amount or which have not exceeded any relevant reserve shall be excluded in their entirety from calculations with respect to the Basket or Cap, and the Buyer Indemnified Parties shall have no recourse for such Losses. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, in no event shall the aggregate amount of all indemnification payments for which Seller is liable pursuant to (other than for Losses constituting Seller Uncapped Claims) exceed an amount equal to twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000) (the "").
Seller's Limitation of Liability
Article XI
Section 9.2(a)
Seller Uncapped Claims
Section 9.2 (b)
Section 9.1
provided
however
Section 9.2 (a)
Basket
provided
further
Section 9.2(a)
De Minimis Amount
Section 4.6(a)
Section 9.2(a)
Cap
9.4 . From and after Closing, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this , Buyer shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Seller, its Affiliates and its and their respective officers, directors, and employees (the "") (it being agreed that any indemnification payments shall be made to Seller), from and against all Losses asserted against, resulting from, imposed upon or suffered or incurred by Seller Indemnified Parties by reason of or arising from:
Buyer's Agreement to Indemnify
Article IX
Seller Indemnified Parties
(a) any failure of any representation or warranty of Buyer set forth in this Agreement or the certificate delivered pursuant to that survives after the Closing pursuant to to be true and correct in all respects as of the date hereof and as of the Closing (except to the extent expressly made as of an earlier date, in which case the failure of such representations and warranties to be so true and correct shall be measured as of such earlier date) as such representation or warranty would read if all qualifications to materiality were deleted therefrom;
Section 7.3(c)
Section 9.1
 
 
(b) the breach of any covenant or agreement by Buyer, Splitco, or prior to the Closing, CCE, contained in this Agreement; and
(c) any Transaction Expenses payable by Buyer in accordance with .
Section 10.1
9.5 . Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary (except for Tax matters which shall be governed by of this Agreement), the obligation of Buyer to indemnify Seller Indemnified Parties pursuant to (A)  hereof, against any Losses sustained by reason of any claim with respect to the breach of a representation or warranty (other than Losses (i) arising out of, relating to or resulting from breaches or inaccuracies of any Fundamental Representation or (ii) arising out of or resulting from fraud or willful material breach by Buyer (such Losses in (i) and (ii), collectively, the "")) or (B)  against any Losses sustained by reason of any claim with respect to the breach by Buyer of a covenant shall be limited to claims as to which a Seller Indemnified Party has given Buyer written notice, setting forth therein in reasonable detail the basis for such claim, on or prior to the termination of such representation or warranty or covenant pursuant to hereof; , , that the provisions for indemnification contained in (other than for Losses constituting Buyer Uncapped Claims) shall be effective only after the aggregate amount of all such claims which are so indemnifiable exceed the Basket, and only to the extent of such excess; that Buyer shall not be liable to any Seller Indemnified Party for any particular claim under (other than for Losses constituting Seller Uncapped Claims) unless the amount of such claim exceeds the De Minimis Amount and all such Losses in respect of any claim or series of related claims which total less than the De Minimis Amount shall be excluded in their entirety from calculations with respect to the Basket or Cap, and the Seller Indemnified Parties shall have no recourse for such Losses. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, in no event shall the aggregate amount of all indemnification payments for which Buyer is liable pursuant to (other than for Losses constituting Buyer Uncapped Claims) exceed an amount equal to the Cap.
Buyer's Limitation of Liability
Article XI
Section 9.4(a)
Buyer Uncapped Claims
Section 9.4 (b)
Section 9.1
provided
however
Section 9.4(a)
provided
further
Section 9.4(a)
Section 9.4(a)
9.6 . Except for Tax matters which shall be governed solely by of this Agreement, the obligations and liabilities of Seller and Buyer with respect to any claims made by the Buyer Indemnified Parties and the Seller Indemnified Parties, respectively, which arise or result from claims for Losses made by third parties ("") shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Third-Party Claims
Article XI
Third-Party Claim
(a) The indemnified party shall give the indemnifying party prompt written notice of any such Third-Party Claim; , , that (i) failure to give such
provided
however
 
notification shall not affect the indemnification provided hereunder except to the extent the indemnifying party shall have been materially prejudiced as a result of such failure; and (ii) the indemnifying party shall have the right, after it acknowledges in writing to the indemnified party its obligation to indemnify the indemnified party hereunder, to undertake the defense thereof by counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party at the indemnifying party's sole expense; , that if the indemnifying party assumes such defense, the indemnified party shall have the right to participate in the defense thereof and to employ counsel, at its own expense, separate from the counsel employed by the indemnifying party, it being understood that the indemnifying party shall control such defense;
provided
(b) Within thirty (30) Business Days following the receipt of notice of a Third-Party Claim, if the indemnifying party has not assumed the defense of such Third-Party Claim or has declined to assume the defense of such Third-Party Claim in writing, the indemnified party shall (upon further written notice to the indemnifying party) have the right to undertake the defense, compromise or settlement of such Third-Party Claim on behalf of and for the account and risk of the indemnifying party subject to the right of the indemnifying party to assume the defense of such Third-Party Claim at any time prior to settlement, compromise or final determination thereof (subject to ); and
Section 9.6(a)(ii)
(c) Notwithstanding any provision in this to the contrary, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed), the indemnifying party shall not admit any liability with respect to, or settle, compromise or discharge, any Third-Party Claim or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect thereto, except in the case of any settlement that (i) includes as an unconditional term thereof the delivery by the claimant or plaintiff to the indemnified party of a written unconditional release from all liability in respect of such Third-Party Claim and (ii) provides solely for monetary relief and does not otherwise involve or purport to bind or limit the indemnified party. In addition, if the indemnifying party shall have assumed the defense of the Third-Party Claim, the indemnified party shall not admit any liability with respect to, or settle, compromise or discharge, any Third-Party Claim or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect thereto, without the prior written consent of the indemnifying party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), and the indemnifying party will not be subject to any liability for any such admission, settlement, compromise, discharge or consent to judgment made by an indemnified party without such prior written consent of the indemnifying party.
Article IX
9.7 . In the event any indemnified party should have a claim against any indemnifying party under or hereof that does not involve a Third-Party Claim being asserted against or sought to be collected from such indemnified party, the indemnified party shall, as promptly as practicable after discovery of such claim, deliver written notice of such claim to the indemnifying party. The failure by any indemnified party to so notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve the indemnifying party from any liability which it may have to such indemnified party under or hereof, except to the extent that the indemnifying party demonstrates that it has been materially prejudiced by such failure. If the
Other Claims
Section 9.2
9.4
Section 9.2
9.4
 
indemnifying party does not notify the indemnified party within thirty (30) Business Days following its receipt of such notice that the indemnifying party disputes its liability to the indemnified party under or hereof, such claim specified by the indemnified party in such notice shall be conclusively deemed a liability of the indemnifying party under Section  or hereof, and the indemnifying party shall pay the amount of such liability to the indemnified party on demand or, in the case of any notice in which the amount of the claim (or any portion thereof) is estimated, on such later date when the amount of such claim (or such portion thereof) becomes finally determined. If the indemnifying party has timely disputed its liability with respect to such claim, as provided above, the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall proceed in good faith to negotiate a resolution of such dispute and, if not resolved through negotiations, such dispute shall be resolved by litigation pursuant to hereof.
Section 9.2
9.4
9.2
9.4
Section 10.9
9.8 .
Sole Remedy; Other Limitations; etc
(a) Buyer and Seller acknowledge and agree that, if the Closing occurs, their sole and exclusive monetary remedy (other than for fraud or willful material breach or misrepresentation) following the Closing with respect to any and all claims (whether Third-Party Claims or otherwise) relating to the subject matter of this Agreement shall be pursuant to the provisions set forth in any Ancillary Agreement, and , and ; , , that nothing contained herein shall prevent an indemnified party from pursuing non-monetary remedies as may be available to such party under applicable Law in the event of a party's failure to comply with its obligations hereunder.
Sections 2.3
2.5
Article IX
Article XI
provided
however
(b) Any liability for indemnification hereunder shall be determined without duplication of recovery by reason of the state of facts giving rise to such liability constituting a breach of more than one representation, warranty, covenant or agreement. Nothing in this is intended to entitle any party to recover any amounts in connection with this to the extent that such party or any of its Affiliates has already recovered such amount pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, including as a result of any payments in respect of the adjustments pursuant to or .
Article IX
Article IX
Sections 2.3
2.5
(c) Seller and Buyer agree that any payment made among themselves pursuant to , or shall have the nature of an adjustment to the Closing Purchase Price and shall be treated accordingly, to the extent permitted by Law, for all Tax purposes. Any indemnification payments under this Agreement for indemnifiable Losses shall be paid net of (or, in the case of a Tax detriment, increased by) (i) any insurance proceeds actually recovered by the indemnified party with respect to such Losses, an amount equal to (x) the amount of the net after tax cost of insurance premiums paid by the indemnified party in the same policy year as the claim for such Losses for the insurance policy under which such insurance proceeds are recovered multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the amount of such insurance proceeds actually recovered and the denominator of which shall be the total coverage amount of the insurance policy under which such insurance proceeds are recovered, (ii) any indemnity, contribution or other similar payment received by the indemnified party or its Affiliates from any third party with respect to such Losses, the amount of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses actually incurred and necessary to recover such third party payment and (iii) any Tax benefit or Tax detriment to the indemnified party or its Affiliates as
Section 2.3
2.5
Article IX
minus
minus
 
set forth in . In the event that an applicable insurance or other recovery is received by any indemnified party with respect to any indemnification payment for which any such Person has been indemnified under this Agreement, then a refund equal to the aggregate amount of such applicable recovery with respect to such indemnification payment shall be made promptly to the indemnifying party.
Section 9.10
(d) With respect to Losses arising out of or resulting from any breach of , including any such Losses arising out of or resulting from the Cleanup of any Release or threatened Release of Hazardous Materials on, from or adjacent to any Real Property, such Losses shall only include amounts to the extent required by a Governmental Entity or required by an applicable Environmental Law and incurred in the most cost-effective and commercially reasonable manner for achieving compliance with applicable Environmental Laws or directives of a Governmental Entity, applicable to the use of the property involved at the Closing, including where authorized the use of engineering or institutional controls such as deed restrictions and other land use restrictions. Seller shall have no obligation to provide indemnification for any such Losses to the extent they arise from or as a consequence of any (i) changes in Environmental Law coming into effect subsequent to the Closing, (ii) any voluntary disclosure subsequent to the Closing by a Buyer Indemnified Party, or (iii) sampling, testing or analysis of any environmental media by or on behalf of any Buyer Indemnified Party on or after the Closing which is not required by an Environmental Law or by a Governmental Entity.
Section 4.21
(e) After the Closing, each indemnified party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any Losses upon becoming aware of any event that would reasonably be expected to give rise thereto, including by seeking to collect or recover any available third party insurance proceeds and any indemnity, contribution or other similar payment available to the indemnified party or its Affiliates from any third party with respect to any such Losses (it being understood that the obligation to use commercially reasonable efforts to collect or recover any third party insurance proceeds or payments available from third parties shall not require the indemnified party to commence any litigation proceedings against any such third party); , that the indemnified party's inability to collect or recover any such insurance proceeds or payments from third parties shall not limit or delay the indemnifying party's obligations hereunder. Any Losses incurred in contravention of this subsection shall not be recoverable hereunder by the relevant indemnified party.
provided
(f) Any insurer that would otherwise be obligated to pay any claim shall not be relieved of the responsibility with respect thereto or, solely by virtue of the indemnification and contributions provisions hereof, have any subrogation rights with respect thereto.
9.9 . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, of this Agreement constitutes the complete and exclusive agreement of the parties with respect to indemnification for Tax matters; , , that Subsections (b), (e) and (f) of shall apply to . Subject to the proviso to the immediately preceding sentence, any conflict between the terms of of this Agreement and any other provision of this Agreement, or any provision of any other agreement, shall be resolved in favor of of this Agreement, unless such other provision expressly provides that it shall be given priority over of this Agreement.
Exclusivity of Article XI of this Agreement
Article XI
provided
however
Section 9.8
Article XI
Article XI
Article XI
Article XI
 
 
9.10 . All indemnification payments under this Agreement shall be reduced to take account of the present value of any net Tax benefit (including, but not limited to, any current or future deductions, any reduction of income or gain upon a sale, disposition, conveyance, license or other similar transaction as a result of increased Tax basis, any Tax refunds received, any use of a credit of Taxes and any increase in the amount of losses, reliefs, allowances or other similar Tax attributes) and shall be increased to take account of the present value of any net Tax detriment realized by the indemnified party or its Affiliates in connection with or otherwise arising (directly or indirectly) from an indemnified Loss including, without limitation, any Tax detriment resulting from an indemnification payment for such Loss. Upon the written request of the indemnifying party, the indemnified party shall provide the amount of the net Tax benefit and/or Tax detriment realized by the indemnified party in connection with or otherwise arising (directly or indirectly) from an indemnified Loss together with reasonable detail with respect to such calculation. In computing the amount of any such net Tax benefit and/or Tax detriment, the indemnified party shall be deemed to recognize all other items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit (other than carryback items) before recognizing any item arising from the receipt of any indemnification payment hereunder or from a Tax controversy. The indemnified party shall cooperate fully with all commercially reasonable requests from the indemnifying party in connection with determining the present value of such net Tax benefit and/or Tax detriment.
Offset against Tax Benefits
10.1 . Except as set forth on of the Seller Disclosure Letter, and for Taxes, which shall be governed by , all Transaction Expenses shall be borne by the party incurring the same.
Fees and Expenses
Section 10.1
Article XI
10.2 . Any payment required to be paid pursuant to this Agreement that is not paid by the thirtieth (30th) day after such payment is due shall accrue interest from and including such thirtieth (30th) day after the due date to and including the date of payment at the rate of one-month LIBOR plus twenty-five (25) basis points per annum.
Interest
10.3 . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder required to be delivered in writing shall be deemed given if delivered personally, telecopied (which is confirmed) or sent by overnight courier (providing proof of delivery) to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):
Notices
If to Buyer, Splitco or CCE (before the Closing), to:
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.
2500 Windy Ridge Parkway
Atlanta, GA 30339
Fax: (770) 989-3784
Attention: John Parker
 
 
with a copy, which shall not constitute notice, to:
Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP
80 Pine Street
New York, NY 10005
Fax: (212) 269-5420
Attention: Gerry Meistrell
Jonathan Mark
Helene Banks
If to TCCC, Seller or CCE (after the Closing) to:
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, GA 30313
Fax: (404) 676-8621
Attention: Chief Financial Officer
with a copy, which shall not constitute notice, to:
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, GA 30313
Fax: (404) 676-7580
Attention: General Counsel
with a copy, which shall not constitute notice, to:
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
Four Times Square
New York, NY 10036
Fax: (212) 735-2000
Attention: Martha E. McGarry
Sean C. Doyle
10.4 .
Entire Agreement; Modification
(a) The agreement of the parties, which consists of this Agreement, the Seller Disclosure Letter, the Buyer Disclosure Letter, the Ancillary Agreements, to the extent entered into, and the exhibits, schedules and other documents referred to herein which form a part hereof (including the Confidentiality Agreement referred to in hereof), sets forth the entire agreement and understanding between the parties and supersedes any prior agreement or understanding, written or oral, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.
Section 6.2
 
 
(b) Subject to compliance with applicable Laws, this Agreement may be modified and/or amended with respect to any provision contained herein at any time by written action of Buyer and Seller.
10.5 . Any term or condition hereof may be waived at any time by the party hereto that is entitled to the benefits thereof by a written instrument duly executed on behalf of such party. The failure of a party to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement shall not be construed to be a waiver of such provision nor shall it in any way affect the validity of this Agreement or the right of such party thereafter to enforce each and every such provision. No waiver of any breach of this Agreement shall be held to constitute a waiver of any other or subsequent breach.
Waiver
10.6 . Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be transferred, assigned or delegated by any of the parties hereto, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of the other parties, and any attempt to make any such transfer, assignment or delegation without such consent shall be null and void; , , that, without the consent of the other parties, Seller shall have the right to transfer the Sweden Shares and Norway Shares to a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of TCCC other than Seller, and in such event, then such Subsidiary or Subsidiaries designated by TCCC and Seller shall agree in writing to become a party to this Agreement pursuant to which such designee(s) shall be substituted for Seller for purposes of this Agreement; , , that, without the consent of the other parties, CCE and Buyer shall have the right to assign Buyer's rights and obligations hereunder to a direct or indirect wholly-owned non-U.S. Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of Buyer, and in such event, then such Subsidiary or Subsidiaries designated by CCE and Seller shall agree in writing to become a party to this Agreement pursuant to which such designee(s) shall be substituted for Buyer for purposes of this Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the successors, legal representatives and permitted assigns of the parties hereto. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and in the event that any one or more provisions are deemed illegal or unenforceable the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect unless the deletion of such provision shall cause this Agreement to become materially adverse to any party, in which event the parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to arrive at an accommodation that best preserves for the parties the benefits and obligations of the offending provision.
Assignment; Binding Effect; Severability
provided
however
provided
further
10.7 . The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that the failure of any party to perform its agreements and covenants hereunder, including its failure to take all actions as are necessary on its part to the consummation of the Transactions, will cause irreparable injury to the other parties, for which damages, even if available, will not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, each party hereby consents to the issuance of injunctive relief by any court of competent jurisdiction as provided in to compel performance of such party's obligations and to the granting by any such court of the remedy of specific performance of its obligations hereunder without proof of actual damages and without any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond. Such remedy shall not be deemed to be the exclusive remedy for a party's breach of its obligations but shall be in addition to all other remedies available at law or equity.
Specific Performance
Section 10.9
 
 
10.8 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance with the Laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to the conflicts of law provision or rule (whether of the State of Delaware or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the application of the Laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
10.9 . The parties irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of (a) the Delaware Court of Chancery, and (b) any state appellate court therefrom within the State of Delaware (or, only if the Delaware Court of Chancery declines to accept jurisdiction over a particular matter, any state or federal court within the State of Delaware), for the purposes of any Action arising out of this Agreement or the Transactions (and each agrees that no such Action relating to this Agreement or the Transactions shall be brought by it except in such courts). The parties irrevocably and unconditionally waive (and agree not to plead or claim) any objection to the laying of venue of any Action arising out of this Agreement or the Transactions in (i) the Delaware Court of Chancery, or (ii) any state appellate court therefrom within the State of Delaware (or, only if the Delaware Court of Chancery declines to accept jurisdiction over a particular matter, any state or federal court within the State of Delaware) or that any such Action brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Each of the parties hereto also agrees that any final and non-appealable judgment against a party hereto in connection with any Action shall be conclusive and binding on such party and that such award or judgment may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction, either within or outside of the United States. A certified or exemplified copy of such award or judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the fact and amount of such award or judgment.
Consent to Jurisdiction
10.10 . Each party hereby waives, and agrees to cause each of its Affiliates to waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any Action directly or indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with this Agreement or the Transactions. Each party (a) certifies that no Representative of the other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other party would not, in the event of an Action, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (b) acknowledges that it and the other party hereto have been induced to enter into this agreement by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications in this .
Waiver of Jury Trial
Section 10.10
10.11 . No provision of this Agreement is intended to confer upon any Person other than the parties hereto any rights or remedies hereunder (except as set forth in of this Agreement, (Directors and Officer's Indemnification) and with respect to Buyer Indemnified Parties and Seller Indemnified Parties).
Third Party Beneficiaries
Article XI
Section 6.12
Article IX
10.12 . This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts (including by facsimile), each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
10.13 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no party shall be liable to or otherwise responsible to any other party hereto or any Affiliate of any other party hereto for any damages including, exemplary, punitive, consequential, incidental, indirect or special damages or lost profits that arise out of or relate to a breach of any covenant or agreement in this Agreement under any and all theories of liability in an amount that exceeds $12,600,000 (or $9,500,000 if the damages arise out of a breach of a
Limitation on Damages
 
covenant that is within the Knowledge of Seller or Knowledge of Buyer, as applicable prior to the Closing but for which such party has failed to provide prompt written notice to the other) plus related actual out-of-pocket expenses; , that (a) if any party hereto shall have acted in willful and reckless disregard of its obligations set forth in this Agreement, or (b) any party shall have failed to cure by the Termination Date a breach of a covenant or agreement for which the other party has provided prompt written notice, then the other party shall be entitled to pursue any remedy it has at law including to seek any and all damages (without limitation in amount) including exemplary, punitive, consequential, incidental, indirect or special damages or lost profits or under any other theory of liability.
provided
10.14 .
Guarantee, etc
(a) Each of (x) TCCC and (y) prior to Closing, CCE, and following Closing, Splitco (as applicable, a ""), hereby guarantees, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, the payment and performance of all obligations and other Liabilities of Seller and Buyer, respectively, under this Agreement (as applicable, the ""). The foregoing guarantee is absolute and unconditional irrespective of circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or any defense, setoff or counterclaim available to, a guarantor; provided, that the Guarantors shall have the right to assert any defense that would be available to Seller or Buyer, as applicable, with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations. Each of the Guarantors hereby (i) waives any acceptance, presentment, demand, protest and notice with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations, (ii) agrees to take all action necessary to cause Seller or Buyer, as applicable, to pay and perform its obligations and other Liabilities under this Agreement, (iii) makes the representations and warranties set forth in , , , and , with respect to itself, and (iv) acknowledges and agrees that the terms of , , , , , and this bind such Guarantor as a primary party.
Guarantor
Guaranteed Obligations
Sections 4.1
4.2
4.5
5.1
5.2
Sections 6.2
6.6
6.7
6.13
6.15
Article X
(b) For the avoidance of doubt, at the Closing, Splitco shall succeed to all obligations of CCE under this Agreement.
11.1 . Buyer will not cause or permit the Nordic Companies to take (or fail to take) any action on the Closing Date after the Closing which action (or failure) is not in the ordinary course of business.
Covenant with respect to Conduct of Business
11.2 . Seller covenants and agrees that prior to the Closing Date Seller shall cancel all outstanding powers of attorney with respect to all Tax Returns of the Nordic Companies unless Buyer reasonably requests otherwise following timely notification of such outstanding powers of attorney prior to the Closing Date.
Covenant with respect to Powers of Attorney
11.3 . Buyer shall have the sole and exclusive responsibility for the preparation and filing of each Tax Return filed after the Closing Date that includes any Nordic Company (each, a ""); , , that, except as otherwise required by Law, (x) with respect to Buyer Filed Tax Returns for Pre-Closing
Obligations to File Tax Returns
Buyer Filed Tax Return
provided
however
 
Periods and Straddle Periods, such returns shall be prepared consistent with past practices of the Nordic Companies, (y) Buyer shall provide to Seller no later than thirty (30) days in advance of the due date for the filing thereof (including any valid extensions), and Seller shall have a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on (and Buyer shall file such Tax Returns for any Pre-Closing Period that is not a Straddle Period in accordance with such comments received from Seller, to the extent such comments are consistent with applicable Law and past practice of the Nordic Companies), any such Buyer Filed Tax Return (or the relevant portion thereof) to the extent that (I) such Buyer Filed Tax Return includes any Nordic Company, or (II) Seller is responsible for any portion of the Taxes reported on such Buyer Filed Tax Return, and (z) Buyer shall not take any position on any Buyer Filed Tax Return that includes any Nordic Company that would reasonably be expected to result in penalties under any applicable Tax Law, without Seller's prior written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Except as otherwise provided herein, Buyer shall have the exclusive right to file, prosecute, compromise or settle any claim for, or refund of, Taxes in respect of a Buyer Filed Tax Return for which Buyer bears responsibility hereunder.
11.4 . Subject to and subject to the ultimate division of responsibility for Taxes set out in , Seller and Buyer shall each remit or cause to be remitted to the applicable Governmental Entity in a timely manner any Taxes due in respect of any Tax Return that such party is required to file (or, in the case of a Tax for which no Tax Return is required to be filed, which is otherwise payable by such party or a member of such party's group to any Governmental Entity). In the case of any Tax Return for which the party not required to file such Tax Return is obligated under this Agreement to pay all or a portion of the Taxes reported as due on such Tax Return, the party filing such Tax Return shall notify the other party, in writing, of its obligation to pay such Taxes and the party receiving such notice shall pay such amount to the party filing such Tax Return in accordance with the notice and payment provisions contained in .
Obligation to Remit Taxes
Section 11.3
Section 11.5
Section 11.8
11.5 .
Tax Sharing Obligations and Prior Agreements
(a) Except as provided in , Buyer and the Nordic Companies shall be responsible for the payment of (and shall be entitled to any refund of, whether received in cash or applied against future Tax obligations) all Taxes for any Post-Closing Period attributable to any Nordic Company (collectively, the "").
Section 11.8
Buyer Taxes
(b) Except as provided in , Seller shall be responsible for the payment of (and shall be entitled to any refund of, whether received in cash or applied against future Tax obligations) all Taxes for any Pre-Closing Period attributable to a Nordic Company (collectively, the "").
Section 11.8
Seller
Taxes
(c) In order to apportion appropriately any Taxes relating to a tax period that would otherwise be a Straddle Period between the portion of such period ending as of the end of the Closing Date and the portion of such period beginning after the Closing Date, the parties shall, to the extent permitted under applicable Law, elect with the relevant Governmental Entity to treat for all Tax purposes the Closing Date as the last day of a taxable year (in which case such period will not be a Straddle Period). In the case of any Taxes for a Straddle Period for which such election to close the taxable year is not permitted, the portion of such Taxes that is allocable
 
to the portion of the Straddle Period ending as of the end of the Closing Date shall be: (i) in the case of ad valorem or similar Taxes that are imposed on a periodic basis, an amount equal to the amount of such Taxes for the entire period multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days in the Straddle Period prior to and including the Closing Date and the denominator of which is the number of days in the entire relevant Straddle Period, and (ii) in the case of Taxes not described in (i) (such as Taxes that are either (A) based upon or related to income or receipts, or (B) imposed in connection with any sale or other transfer or assignment of property (real or personal, tangible or intangible)), deemed equal to the amount that would be payable if the Taxable Year ended on and included the Closing Date. Any income, deductions, gains or losses recognized on transactions not in the ordinary course of business on or prior to Closing will be allocated to the Pre-Closing Period, and any income, deductions, gains or losses recognized on any transactions not in the ordinary course of business after the Closing (including after the Closing but on the Closing Date) will be allocated to the Post-Closing Period.
(d) Except as set forth in this Agreement and in consideration of the mutual indemnities and other obligations in this Agreement, any and all prior Tax sharing or allocation agreements or practices between Seller or any of its Affiliates, on one hand, and any Nordic Company, on the other hand, shall be terminated as of or before the Closing, and no member of one group shall have any continuing rights or obligations thereunder with respect to any member of the other group.
11.6 .
Amended Returns
(a) Seller shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, file any amended Tax Return that includes any Nordic Company for any taxable period without the consent of Buyer, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Buyer shall provide a response to a request for such consent from Seller within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Receipt of consent by Seller from Buyer under the provisions of this shall not limit or modify Seller's continuing indemnification obligation under .
Section 11.6(a)
Section 11.8(b)
(b) Buyer shall not, and shall not permit any Nordic Company to, file any amended Tax Return that includes any Nordic Company for any Pre-Closing Period or any Straddle Period, in each case without the consent of Seller, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Seller shall provide a response to a request for such consent from Buyer within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Receipt of consent by Buyer or any Nordic Company from Seller under the provisions of this shall not limit or modify Buyer's continuing indemnification obligation under .
Section 11.6(b)
Section 11.8(a)
11.7 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, all documentary, sales, use, registration, value added, transfer, stamp and similar Taxes incurred in connection with the sale and purchase of the Shares (collectively, "") shall be borne 50% by Seller and 50% by Buyer. The party required by Law to file any Tax Returns with respect to any such Transfer Taxes shall prepare and file such Tax Returns and pay such Transfer Taxes to the appropriate Taxing Authority. Seller (or any of its Subsidiaries following the Closing) shall pay by wire transfer to Buyer and Buyer (or any of its Subsidiaries following the Closing) shall pay by wire transfer to Seller the payor's share of the Transfer Taxes
Transfer Taxes
Transfer Taxes
 
which are payable with Tax Returns to be filed by the other party or any of its Subsidiaries following the Closing at least three (3) days prior to the due date for the payment of such Transfer Taxes.
11.8 .
Indemnity Obligations and Payments
(a) Notwithstanding whether any action is permitted or consented to hereunder, Buyer shall indemnify and hold harmless Seller and its Affiliates (it being agreed that any indemnification payments shall be made to Seller) from and against, and will reimburse Seller for (without duplication) (i) all Buyer Taxes and (ii) all Taxes and Losses by reason of or arising from any breach by Buyer or any of its Affiliates or (after the Closing) any Nordic Company of any representation, covenant or obligation under this .
Article XI
(b) Notwithstanding whether any action is permitted or consented to hereunder, Seller shall indemnify and hold harmless Buyer and its Affiliates (including any Nordic Company) (it being agreed that any indemnification payments shall be made to Buyer) from and against, and will reimburse Buyer for (without duplication) (i) all Seller Taxes and (ii) all Taxes and Losses by reason of or arising from any breach by any Nordic Company (on or prior to the Closing) or Seller or any of its Affiliates of any representation, covenant or obligation under this , , and .
Article XI
Section 4.15
Section 6.1(t)
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, any indemnification under this shall not be subject to any (i) limitation under (except as provided in ), including any Basket or Cap, or (ii) offset or reduction for any Tax items reflected on the Sweden Closing Balance Sheet, Norway Closing Balance Sheet or any other balance sheet of the Nordic Companies, except for any accrued Taxes that are reflected as a liability on the Sweden Closing Balance Sheet or the Norway Closing Balance Sheet, to the extent such Taxes reduce the Closing Net Working Capital.
Article XI
Article IX
Section 9.9
(d) . A party making a claim for indemnification under this (the "") shall provide the party from whom such indemnification is sought (the "") with written notice of such claim describing such claim in reasonable detail and accompanied by reasonable documentation supporting such claim (the "") no later than twenty (20) Business Days after the Indemnified Party (i) files a Tax Return reporting Taxes due or other items which are subject to indemnification or (ii) receives written notice with respect to Taxes or other items that may be subject to indemnification under this , , , that in the event that timely notice is not provided, the Indemnifying Party shall be relieved of its obligation to indemnify the Indemnified Party only to the extent that such delay results in actual increased costs or actual prejudice.
Notice
Article XI
Indemnified Party
Indemnifying Party
Claim
Article XI
provided
however
(e) . The Indemnifying Party shall pay the amount of any Claim to the Indemnified Party within fifteen (15) Business Days of receipt of the Claim, that, if such Claim is still subject to the outcome of any Tax Contest, then payment shall not be due until fifteen (15) Business Days after such Claim either is resolved through a Final Determination, or prior to a Final Determination, if the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party agree on the indemnification obligation under this with respect to such Claim. All indemnification payments due under this shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account of the Indemnified Party.
Timing of Payments
provided
Article XI
Article XI
 
 
(f) . Buyer and Seller agree that any payment made among themselves pursuant to shall have the nature of an adjustment to the Closing Purchase Price and shall be treated accordingly, to the extent permitted by Law, for all Tax purposes.
Treatment of Payments
Article XI
11.9 .
Tax Contests
(a) . The Indemnified Party shall promptly notify the Indemnifying Party in writing upon receipt by the Indemnified Party or any member of its group of a written communication from any Governmental Entity with respect to any pending or threatened audit, claim, dispute, suit, action, proposed assessment or other proceeding (a "") concerning any Taxes for which the Indemnifying Party may be liable under this .
Notice
Tax Contest
Article XI
(b) . Buyer shall have the sole responsibility and control over the handling of any Tax Contest, including the exclusive right to communicate with agents of the Governmental Entity and to control, resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest, involving any Buyer Filed Tax Return, but excluding any such Tax Contest to the extent (i) such Tax Contest relates solely to a Pre-Closing Period that is not a Straddle Period, or (ii) Seller bears any material Tax liability that may result from or is attributable to such Tax Contest; , , that Buyer shall not resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest that affects the liability of Seller under this Agreement without the consent of Seller, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Seller shall provide a response to a request for such consent from Buyer within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Subject to Buyer's rights under , Seller shall, upon request and at its own expense, be allowed to participate in the handling of any such Tax Contest with respect to any item that may affect the liability of Seller under this .
Control of Contests by Buyer
provided
however
Section 11.9(a)
Article XI
(c) . Seller shall have the sole responsibility and control over the handling of any Tax Contest, including the exclusive right to communicate with agents of the Governmental Entity and to control, resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest, to the extent such Tax Contest (i) relates solely to a Pre-Closing Period that is not a Straddle Period, or (ii) involves any Tax Return that is not a Buyer Filed Tax Return, but excluding any such Tax Contest referred to in to the extent Buyer bears any material Tax liability that may result from or is attributable to such Tax Contest; , , that Seller shall not resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest that affects the liability of Buyer under this Agreement, or that relates to any Buyer Filed Tax Return, without the consent of Buyer, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Buyer shall provide a response to a request for such consent from Seller within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Subject to Seller's rights under this , Buyer shall, upon request and at its own expense, be allowed to participate in the handling of any such Tax Contest with respect to any item that may affect the liability of Buyer under this .
Control of Contests by Seller
clause (ii) 
provided
however
Section 11.9(c)
Article XI
 
 
(d) . The parties shall jointly control the handling of any Tax Contest, including any communication with agents of any Governmental Entity and the resolution, settlement or agreement to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest, to the extent such Tax Contest is not exclusively controlled by Buyer under or by Seller under .
Joint Control of Contests
Section 11.9(b)
Section 11.9(c)
11.10 .
Cooperation
(a) . Each party shall fully cooperate, and shall cause their Subsidiaries to fully cooperate, with the other parties in connection with the preparation and filing of any Tax Return or the conduct of any Tax Contest (including, where appropriate or necessary, providing a power of attorney) concerning any issues or any other matter contemplated under this . Each party shall make its employees and facilities available on a mutually convenient basis to facilitate such cooperation.
General
Article XI
(b) . Unless and except to the extent that there has been a Final Determination to the contrary or a change in Law that results in there not being substantial authority in support of (a) the allocation of Taxes between Seller and Buyer as set forth in this or (b) any position required to be taken under , each party agrees not to take any position on any Tax Return, in connection with any Tax Contest or otherwise that is inconsistent with this .
Consistent Treatment
Article XI
Section 6.1(t)
Section 11.10(b)
11.11 . For so long as the contents thereof may become material in the administration of any matter under applicable Tax Law, but in any event until the later of (i) the expiration of any applicable statutes of limitation and (ii) seven (7) years after the Closing Date, the parties shall (a) retain records, documents, accounting data and other information (including computer data and the systems necessary to access such data) necessary for the preparation and filing of all Tax Returns in respect of Taxes of any Nordic Company or for any Tax Contests relating to such Tax Returns, and (b) give to the other parties reasonable access to such records, documents, accounting data and other information (including computer data) and to its personnel (insuring their cooperation), systems and premises, for the purpose of the review or audit of such Tax Returns to the extent relevant to an obligation or liability of a party under this Agreement or for purposes of the preparation or filing of any such Tax Return, the conduct of any Tax Contest or any other matter reasonably and in good faith related to the Tax affairs of the requesting party. At any time after the Closing Date that Seller or Buyer proposes to destroy such material or information, it shall first notify the other party in writing and such other party shall be entitled to receive such materials or information proposed to be destroyed.
Retention of Records; Access
11.12 . In the event of any disagreement arising under this , including any dispute in connection with a claim by a third party (a ""), the parties shall promptly notify the tax director of each of Seller and Buyer (each, a "" and, together, the "") of such Dispute, who together shall attempt in good faith to
Dispute Resolution
Article XI
Dispute
Tax Director
Tax Directors
 
resolve such Dispute. If such Dispute is not resolved within twenty (20) Business Days following the date on which the Tax Directors receive notification, the parties to such Dispute shall jointly retain an independent, nationally recognized law or accounting firm (the "") to act as an arbitrator in order to resolve the Dispute. The Tax Arbitrator's determination as to any Dispute shall be made in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and shall be final and binding on the parties and not subject to collateral attack for any reason (other than manifest error). All fees and expenses of the Tax Arbitrator shall be shared equally by each of the parties to the Dispute.
Tax Arbitrator
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Share Purchase Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
[RECIPIENT NAME + TITLE]
[COMPANY ADDRESS]
Gentlemen:
Reference is made to the Bottler's Agreement entered into among The Coca-Cola Company, The Coca-Cola Export Corporation and you with an effective date of [INSERT], 2010 (hereinafter referred to as the "Agreement").
We hereby authorize you to use the trademark COCA-COLA in your corporate name: "[COMPANY NAME]"
The authorization granted herein will expire automatically upon expiration or termination of the Agreement, and is revocable by us in our absolute discretion, in whole or in part, upon ninety (90) days' written notice. Upon expiration or termination of the Agreement or revocation of this Authorization, [COMPANY NAME] shall take any and all affirmative steps to delete "Coca-Cola" from its corporate name and to amend any other reference to "Coca-Cola" in any and all statements or documents including government licenses, registrations or any other records.
Nothing contained herein shall give you any interest in the goodwill derived from the use of the trademark COCA-COLA in your corporate name. It is hereby expressly agreed and understood that there is extended only a permission uncoupled with any interest to use the trademark COCA-COLA, and that we retain the sole and exclusive right to initiate and defend any or all proceedings and actions relating to such trademark.
 
 
 
 
 
, made and entered into with effect from             , by and among THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America, with principal offices at One Coca-Cola Plaza, N.W., in the City of Atlanta, State of Georgia 30313, United States of America; THE COCA-COLA EXPORT CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America, with principal offices at One Coca-Cola Plaza, N.W., in the City of Atlanta, State of Georgia 30313, United States of America (The Coca-Cola Company and The Coca-Cola Export Corporation hereinafter collectively or severally referred to as the "Company" unless otherwise specified); and             , a corporation organized and existing under the laws of             , with principal offices at                      (hereinafter referred to as the "Bottler").
THIS AGREEMENT
WHEREAS,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The covenants herein contained apply not only to the activities with which the Bottler may be directly concerned, but also to activities with which the Bottler may be indirectly concerned through ownership, control, management, partnership, agreement or otherwise, and whether located within or outside of the Territory.
 
 
 
then the Company shall have the right to terminate this Agreement forthwith without liability for damages unless the third party making such acquisition referred to in subclause (a) hereof or the person, firm or company referred to in subclause (b) hereof shall, on being notified in writing by the Company of its intention to terminate as aforesaid, agrees to discontinue, and shall in fact discontinue, the manufacture, preparation, packaging, distribution or sale of such product(s) within a reasonable period not exceeding six (6) months from the date of notification.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, The Coca-Cola Company and The Coca-Cola Export Corporation in Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America, and the Bottler in                    , have caused these presents to be executed in triplicate by the duly authorized person or persons on their behalf on the dates indicated below.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

 
Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of September 14, 2010, between INTERNATIONAL CCE INC., a Delaware corporation, as Issuer (the "Company"), having its principal office at 2500 Windy Ridge Parkway, Atlanta, Georgia, USA 30339, and DEUTSCHE BANK TRUST COMPANY AMERICAS, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee (the "Trustee").
WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured senior or subordinated debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (the "Securities"), which may be convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any person (including the Company), to be issued in one or more series as in this Indenture provided; and
WHEREAS, this Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, that are required to be part of this Indenture, and shall be governed by such provisions; that if any provision of this Indenture modifies any TIA (as defined herein) provision that may be so modified, such TIA provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified; that if any provision of this Indenture excludes any TIA provision that may be so excluded, such TIA provision shall be excluded from this Indenture; and
provided
provided
further
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders (as defined herein) thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof and any coupons (as defined herein), as follows:
SECTION 101. . "Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104.
Definitions
"Additional Amounts" has the meaning specified in Section 1010.
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control," as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with" shall have correlative meanings.
 
 
"Attributable Debt" has the meaning specified in Section 1007.
"Authenticating Agent" means any Person appointed by the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee pursuant to Section 611 to authenticate Securities.
"Authorized Newspaper" means a newspaper, in the English language or in an official language of the country of publication, customarily published on each Business Day, whether or not published on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, and of general circulation in each place in connection with which the term is used or in the financial community of each such place. Where successive publications are required to be made in Authorized Newspapers, the successive publications may be made in the same or in different newspapers in the same city meeting the foregoing requirements and in each case on any Business Day.
"Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar U.S. federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
"Bearer Security" means any Security except a Registered Security.
"Board of Directors" means (i) with respect to a corporation, the board of directors of the corporation; (ii) with respect to a partnership, the board of directors of a corporate general partner of the partnership; (iii) with respect to a limited liability company, the managing members thereof; and (iv) with respect to any other Person, the board of directors or committee of such Person serving a similar function.
"Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company as the case may be, to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Business Day" means, when used with respect to any Place of Payment or any other particular location referred to in this Indenture or in the Securities, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which (i) is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment or other location are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close and (ii) if a payment is to be made in (or a rate is to be ascertained for) Euros, is also a day in which TARGET is open for settlement of payments in Euros.
"Clearstream" means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, or its successor.
"Code" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder.
"Commission" or "SEC" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
 
 
"Commodity Agreement" means any forward contract, commodity swap, commodity option or other financial agreement or arrangement relating to, or the value of which is dependent upon, fluctuations in commodity prices.
"Common Depositary" has the meaning specified in Section 304.
"Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
"Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by an Officer of the Company and delivered to the Trustee.
"Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the total assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (including, without limitation, any net investment in Subsidiaries that are not Restricted Subsidiaries) after deducting therefrom (a) all current liabilities (excluding any thereof constituting Indebtedness) and (b) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, franchises, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense, organization and developmental expenses and other like segregated intangibles, all as computed by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP as of the end of the fiscal year preceding the date of determination; provided, that any items constituting deferred income taxes, deferred investment tax credit or other similar items shall not be taken into account as a liability or as a deduction from or adjustment to total assets.
"Conversion Date" has the meaning specified in Section 312(d).
"Conversion Event" means the cessation of use of a Foreign Currency both by the government of one or more countries or by any recognized union, association or confederation of governments that issued such Foreign Currency and by a central bank or other public institution of or within the international banking community for the settlement of transactions in such Foreign Currency.
"Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee" means the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee, at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office on the date of execution of this Indenture is located at Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, 60 Wall Street, 27th Floor, MS: NYC60-2710 New York, NY 10005, Attention: Trust and Securities Services, (in addition, copies of correspondence are to be sent to Deutsche Bank National Trust Company for Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, Trust & Securities Services, 100 Plaza One, 6th Floor - MS JCY03-0699, Jersey City, NJ 07311-3901, Attention: Corporates Team), except that with respect to presentation of Securities for payment or for registration of transfer or exchange, such term shall mean the office or agency of the Trustee at which, at any particular time, its corporate agency business shall be conducted.
"corporation" includes corporations, associations, companies and business or statutory trusts.
"coupon" means any interest coupon appertaining to a Bearer Security.
 
 
"Currency" means any currency, composite currency or currency unit and Foreign Currency issued by the government of one or more countries or by any recognized union, confederation or association of such governments.
"Currency Agreement" means any foreign exchange contract, currency swap agreement or other similar agreement with respect to currency values.
"Default" means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
"Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 307.
"Depositary" means, with respect to Registered Securities of any series for which the Company shall determine that such Registered Securities will be issued in permanent global form, The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, another clearing agency, or any successor registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act, or other applicable statute or regulations, which in each case, shall be designated by the Company pursuant to Section 301.
"Dollar" or "$" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts therein.
"Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit" has the meaning specified in Section 312(g).
"Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency" has the meaning specified in Section 312(f).
"EDGAR" means the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Retrieval System.
"Election Date" has the meaning specified in Section 312(h).
"Euroclear" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. as operator of Euroclear System, and any successor thereto.
"Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
"Exchange Act" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
"Exchange Date" has the meaning specified in Section 304.
"Exchange Rate Agent" means, with respect to Securities of or within any series, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, a New York Clearing House bank, designated pursuant to Section 301 or Section 313.
 
 
"Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate" means a certificate setting forth (i) the applicable Market Exchange Rate and (ii) the Dollar or Foreign Currency amounts of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any (on an aggregate basis and on the basis of a Security having the lowest denomination principal amount determined in accordance with Section 302 in the relevant Currency), payable with respect to a Security of any series on the basis of such Market Exchange Rate, signed by any Officer of the Company.
"Extension Notice" has the meaning specified in Section 308.
"Extension Period" has the meaning specified in Section 308.
"Federal Bankruptcy Code" means the U.S. Bankruptcy Act of Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended from time to time.
"Foreign Currency" means any Currency other than Currency of the United States.
"GAAP" means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other successor entities as have been sanctioned and approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission, approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, that are applicable at the date of any relevant calculation or determination.
"Government Obligations" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, securities which are (i) direct obligations of the government which issued the Currency in which the Securities of a particular series are payable or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the government which issued the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed by such government, which, in either case, are full faith and credit obligations of such government payable in such Currency and are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of the Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
"guarantee" means a guarantee (other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business), direct or indirect, in any manner (including, without limitation, letters of credit and reimbursement agreements in respect thereof), of all or any part of any Indebtedness or other obligations.
"Hedging Obligations" of any Person means the obligations of such Person pursuant to any Interest Rate Agreement, Currency Agreement, Commodity Agreement or derivative contract entered into to hedge interest rate risk, currency exchange risk, and commodity price risk.
 
 
"Holder" means, in the case of a Registered Security, the Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register and, in the case of a Bearer Security, the bearer thereof and, when used with respect to any coupon, shall mean the bearer thereof.
"Indebtedness" means any and all obligations of a Person for money borrowed which, in accordance with GAAP, would be reflected on the balance sheet of such Person as a liability on the date as of which Indebtedness is to be determined.
"Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301; , , that, if at any time more than one Person is acting as Trustee under this instrument, "Indenture" shall mean, with respect to any one or more series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee, this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee established as contemplated by Section 301, exclusive, however, of any provisions or terms which relate solely to other series of Securities for which such Person is not Trustee, regardless of when such terms or provisions were adopted, and exclusive of any provisions or terms adopted by means of one or more indentures supplemental hereto executed and delivered after such Person had become such Trustee but to which such Person, as such Trustee, was not a party.
provided
however
"Indexed Security" means a Security the terms of which provide that the principal amount thereof payable at the Stated Maturity may be more or less than the principal amount thereof at original issuance.
"interest" means, when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security the rate prescribed in such Original Issue Discount Security.
"Interest Payment Date" means, when used with respect to any Security, the Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
"Interest Rate Agreement" means any interest rate swap agreement, interest rate cap agreement or other financial agreement or arrangement with respect to exposure to interest rates.
"Lien" or "lien" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent statutes) of any jurisdiction.
"Market Exchange Rate" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, (i) for any conversion involving a currency unit on the one hand and Dollars or any Foreign Currency on the other, the exchange rate between the relevant currency unit and Dollars or such Foreign Currency calculated by the method specified pursuant
 
to Section 301 for the Securities of the relevant series, (ii) for any conversion of Dollars into any Foreign Currency, the noon (New York City time) buying rate for such Foreign Currency for cable transfers quoted in New York City as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and (iii) for any conversion of one Foreign Currency into Dollars or another Foreign Currency, the spot rate at noon local time in the relevant market at which, in accordance with normal banking procedures, the Dollars or Foreign Currency into which conversion is being made could be purchased with the Foreign Currency from which conversion is being made from major banks located in either New York City, London or any other principal market for Dollars or such purchased Foreign Currency, in each case determined by the Exchange Rate Agent. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, in the event of the unavailability of any of the exchange rates provided for in the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), the Exchange Rate Agent shall use, in its sole discretion and without liability on its part, such quotation of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as of the most recent available date, or quotations from one or more major banks in New York City, London or another principal market for the Currency in question, or such other quotations as the Exchange Rate Agent shall deem appropriate. Unless otherwise specified by the Exchange Rate Agent, if there is more than one market for dealing in any Currency by reason of foreign exchange regulations or otherwise, the market to be used in respect of such Currency shall be that upon which a non-resident issuer of securities designated in such Currency would purchase such Currency in order to make payments in respect of such securities.
"Maturity" means, when used with respect to any Security, the date on which the principal of such Security or any installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by acceleration, notice of redemption, notice of option to elect repayment, notice of exchange or conversion, or otherwise.
"Mortgage" has the meaning specified in Section 1006.
"Officer" means the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer or the Secretary.
"Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by one Officer of the Company who must be the President, the Treasurer, or a Vice President of the Company, that meets the requirements of Section 102.
"Operating Property" means each bottling plant or facility of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary located within Europe, except any such bottling plant or facility which the Board of Directors of the Company by resolution reasonably determines not to be of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company, including an employee of the Company, and who shall be acceptable to the Trustee.
"Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon an acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502.
 
 
"Outstanding" means, when used with respect to Securities, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
(i) Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(ii) Securities, or portions thereof, for whose payment or redemption or repayment at the option of the Holder money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities and any coupons appertaining thereto; provided that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
(iii) Securities, except to the extent provided in Sections 1402 and 1403, with respect to which the Company has effected defeasance and/or covenant defeasance as provided in Article Fourteen;
(iv) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company; and
(v) Securities that have been converted or exchanged for other securities pursuant to Section 301;
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder or are present at a meeting of Holders for quorum purposes, and for the purpose of making the calculations required by TIA Section 313, (i) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the amount of principal thereof that would be (or shall have been determined to be) due and payable, at the time of such determination, upon an acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, (ii) the principal amount of any Security denominated in a Foreign Currency that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the Dollar equivalent, determined as of the date such Security is originally issued by the Company as set forth in an Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the Dollar equivalent as of such date of original issuance of the amount determined as provided in clause (i) above) of such Security, (iii) the principal amount of any Indexed Security that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the principal amount of such Indexed Security at original issuance, unless otherwise provided with respect to such Security pursuant to Section 301, and (iv) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities
provided
however
 
or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in making such determination or calculation or in conclusively relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver or upon any such determination as to the presence of a quorum, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor.
"Paying Agent" means any Person (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) authorized by the Company to pay the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Securities on behalf of the Company.
"Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
"Place of Payment" means, when used with respect to the Securities of or within any series, the place or places (which, in the case of Bearer Securities, shall be outside the United States) where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Securities are payable as specified as contemplated by Sections 301 and 1002.
"Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, in whole or in part, means the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to this Indenture.
"Redemption Price" means, when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
"Registered Security" means any Security registered in the Security Register.
"Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Registered Securities of or within any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301.
"Repayment Date" means, when used with respect to any Security to be repaid at the option of the Holder, the date fixed for such repayment pursuant to this Indenture.
"Repayment Price" means, when used with respect to any Security to be repaid at the option of the Holder, the price at which it is to be repaid pursuant to this Indenture.
"Responsible Officer" means, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer of the Trustee within the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee (or any successor group of the Trustee) who has direct responsibility for administration of this Indenture and, for purposes of Section 601 (or subparagraph (3)(b) of the first paragraph of Section 602 to the extent such expanded definition is used), also includes any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
 
 
"Restricted Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary:
(i) substantially all of the property of which is located, or substantially all of the business of which is carried on, within Europe, and
(ii) which owns or is the lessee of any Operating Property.
"Sale and Leaseback Transaction" has the meaning specified in Section 1007.
"Secured Debt" has the meaning specified in Section 1006.
"Security" or "Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Security or Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture; , , that if at any time there is more than one Person acting as Trustee under this Indenture, "Securities" with respect to the Indenture as to which such Person is Trustee shall have the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and shall more particularly mean Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, exclusive, however, of Securities of any series as to which such Person is not Trustee.
provided
however
"Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 305.
"Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Registered Securities of or within any series means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307.
"Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security or a coupon representing such installment of interest as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable, as such date may be extended pursuant to the provisions of Section 308.
"Subsidiary" means (1) any corporation of which at least a majority of the outstanding stock having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power for the election of directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by the Company or one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries, and (2) any other Person in which the Company or one or more other Subsidiaries, directly or indirectly, at the date of determination, (x) own at least a majority of the outstanding ownership interests or (y) have the power to elect or direct the election of, or to appoint or approve the appointment of, at least the majority of the directors, trustees or managing members of, or other persons holding similar positions with, such Person.
"TARGET" means the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer System.
 
 
"Trade Payables" means accounts payable or any other Indebtedness or monetary obligations to trade creditors created or assumed in the ordinary course of business in connection with the obtaining of materials or services.
"Trust Indenture Act" or "TIA" means the U.S. Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this Indenture was executed, except as provided in Section 905.
"Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder; , , that if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean only the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
provided
however
"United States" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia), its territories, its possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
"United States person" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, an estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source or any trust if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
"Valuation Date" has the meaning specified in Section 312(c).
"Vice President", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president."
"Yield to Maturity" means the yield to maturity, computed at the time of issuance of a Security (or, if applicable, at the most recent redetermination of interest on such Security) and as set forth in such Security in accordance with generally accepted United States bond yield computation principles.
SECTION 102. . Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture (including any covenant or condition compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent) relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
Compliance Certificates and Opinions
 
 
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture (other than pursuant to Section 1004) shall include:
(1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
SECTION 103. . In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company unless such officer or counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
SECTION 104. . Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of the Outstanding Securities of all series or one or more series, as the case may be, may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agents duly appointed in writing. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series may, alternatively, be embodied in and evidenced by the record of Holders of Securities of such series voting in favor thereof, either in
Acts of Holders
 
person or by proxies duly appointed in writing, at any meeting of Holders of Securities of such series duly called and held in accordance with the provisions of Article Fifteen, or a combination of such instruments and any such record. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments or record or both are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company or to all of them. Such instrument or instruments and any such record (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments or so voting at any such meeting. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent, or of the holding by any Person of a Security, shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture (subject to section 315 of the TIA) and conclusive in favor of the Trustee, the Company and any agent of the Trustee or the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section. The record of any meeting of Holders of Securities shall be proved in the manner provided in Section 1506.
Without limiting the generality of this Section 104, unless otherwise provided in or pursuant to this Indenture, a Holder, including a Depositary that is a Holder of a global Security (including through its nominee), may make, give or take, by a proxy or proxies, duly appointed in writing, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act provided in or pursuant to this Indenture or Securities to be made, given or taken by the Holders, and a Depositary that is a Holder of a global Security may provide its proxy or proxies to the beneficial owners of interests in such global Security through such Depositary's standing instructions and customary practices.
(a) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other reasonable manner that the Trustee deems sufficient.
(b) The principal amount and serial numbers of Registered Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, shall be proved by the Security Register.
(c) The principal amount and serial numbers of Bearer Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, may be proved by the production of such Bearer Securities or by a certificate executed, as depositary, by any trust company, bank, banker or other depositary reasonably acceptable to the Company, wherever situated, if such certificate shall be deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory, showing that at the date therein mentioned such Person had on deposit with such depositary, or exhibited to it, the Bearer Securities therein described; or such facts may be proved by the certificate or affidavit of the Person holding such Bearer Securities, if such certificate or affidavit is deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory. The Trustee and the Company may assume that such ownership of any Bearer Security continues until (1) another certificate or affidavit bearing a later date issued in respect of the same Bearer Security is produced, or (2) such Bearer Security is produced to the Trustee
 
by some other Person, or (3) such Bearer Security is surrendered in exchange for a Registered Security, or (4) such Bearer Security is no longer Outstanding. The principal amount and serial numbers of Bearer Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, may also be proved in any other reasonable manner that the Trustee deems sufficient.
(d) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders of Registered Securities any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. Notwithstanding TIA Section 316(c), such record date shall be the record date specified in or pursuant to such Board Resolution, which shall be a date not earlier than the date 30 days prior to the first solicitation of Holders generally in connection therewith and not later than the date such solicitation is completed. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; provided that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than eleven months after the record date.
(e) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee, any Security Registrar, any Paying Agent, any Authenticating Agent, the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such Act is made upon such Security.
SECTION 105. . Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other documents provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
Notices, etc. to Trustee or the Company
(1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing (including telecopy to 732-578-4635) to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Trust & Securities Services, or
(2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid or by overnight delivery service, to the Company addressed to it at the address of the Company's principal office specified in the first paragraph of this Indenture, to the attention of its General Counsel, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
 
 
SECTION 106. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein or otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, where this Indenture provides for notice of any event to Holders of Registered Securities by the Company or the Trustee, such notice shall be sufficiently given if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each such Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders of Registered Securities is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Registered Securities or the sufficiency of any notice to Holders of Bearer Securities given as provided. Any notice mailed to a Holder in the manner herein prescribed shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by such Holder, whether or not such Holder actually receives such notice.
Notice to Holders; Waiver
In case, by reason of the suspension of or irregularities in regular mail service or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impractical to mail notice of any event to Holders of Registered Securities when such notice is required to be given pursuant to any provision of this Indenture, then any manner of giving written notice as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee shall be deemed to be sufficient giving of such notice for every purpose hereunder.
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein or otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of Bearer Securities of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given to Holders of Bearer Securities if published in an Authorized Newspaper in The City of New York and in such other city or cities as may be specified in respect of such Securities on a Business Day at least twice, the first such publication to be not earlier than the earliest date, and not later than the latest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date of such publication or, if published more than once, on the date of the first such publication.
If by reason of the suspension of publication of any Authorized Newspaper or Authorized Newspapers or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impracticable to publish any notice to Holders of Bearer Securities as provided above, then such notification to Holders of Bearer Securities as shall be given with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute sufficient written notice to such Holders for every purpose hereunder. Neither the failure to give notice by publication to Holders of Bearer Securities as provided above, nor any defect in any notice so published, shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Bearer Securities or the sufficiency of any notice to Holders of Registered Securities given as provided herein.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication.
Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
 
 
SECTION 107. . The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
SECTION 108. . All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns
SECTION 109. . In case any provision in this Indenture or in any Security or any coupon shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
SECTION 110. . Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities or coupons, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Securities Registrar and their successors hereunder and the Holders of Securities or coupons, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Benefits of Indenture
SECTION 111. . THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES AND COUPONS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES OF SUCH STATE OTHER THAN NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW SECTION 5-1401. THIS INDENTURE IS SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE TRUST INDENTURE ACT THAT ARE REQUIRED TO BE PART OF THIS INDENTURE AND SHALL, TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE, BE GOVERNED BY SUCH PROVISIONS.
Governing Law
SECTION 112. . Unless otherwise specified in or pursuant to this Indenture or any Securities, in any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date, sinking fund payment date or Stated Maturity or Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then payment of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date, sinking fund payment date, Stated Maturity or Maturity, as the case may be, provided that no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date, sinking fund payment date, Stated Maturity or Maturity, as the case may be, to such next succeeding Business Day.
Legal Holidays
SECTION 113. . No recourse for the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest on any Security or any coupons appertaining thereto, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in this Indenture or in any supplemental indenture, or in any Security or any coupons appertaining thereto, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any director, officer, employee, or
No Recourse
 
stockholder as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any of its Affiliates or any successor Person of the Company, either directly or through the Company or any of its Affiliates or any successor Person of the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that all such liability is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issue of the Securities.
SECTION 114. . Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
 
 
 
 
 
All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them.
SECTION 115. . Unless the context otherwise requires:
Rules of Construction
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 116. . In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes and acts of God; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Force Majeure
 
 
SECTION 117. . The parties hereto acknowledge that in accordance with Section 326 of the U.S.A. Patriot Act Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, like all financial institutions and in order to help fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering, is required to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or legal entity that establishes a relationship or opens an account. The parties to this Indenture agree that they will provide Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas with such information as it may request in order for Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas to satisfy the requirements of the U.S.A. Patriot Act.
U.S.A. Patriot Act
SECTION 201. . The Registered Securities, if any, of each series, the Bearer Securities, if any, of each series and related coupons, the temporary global Securities of each series, if any, and the permanent global Securities of each series, if any, shall be in substantially the forms as shall be established by, or pursuant to a Board Resolution or, subject to Section 303, set forth in, or determined in the manner provided in, an Officers' Certificate pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company, or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers of the Company executing such Securities or coupons as evidenced by their execution of such Securities or coupons. If the forms of Securities or coupons of any series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 303 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities or coupons. Any portion of the text of any Security may be set forth on the reverse thereof, with an appropriate reference thereto on the face of the Security.
Forms Generally
Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, Bearer Securities shall have interest coupons attached.
The Trustee's certificate of authentication on all Securities shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article.
The definitive Securities and coupons, if any, shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel-engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers of the Company executing such Securities or coupons, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities or coupons.
 
 
SECTION 202. . Subject to Section 611, the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication
Dated:
                                
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
SECTION 203. . If Securities of or within a series are issuable in global form, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, then, notwithstanding clause (8) of Section 301, any such Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities of such series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities of such series from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities of such series represented thereby may from time to time be increased or decreased to reflect exchanges. Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified therein or in the Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304. Subject to the provisions of Section 303 and, if applicable, Section 304, the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified therein or in the applicable Company Order. If a Company Order pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304 has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Company with respect to endorsement or delivery or redelivery of a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel.
Securities Issuable in Global Form
The provisions of the last sentence of Section 303 shall apply to any Security represented by a Security in global form if such Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Trustee the Security in global form together with written instructions (which need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the written statement contemplated by the last sentence of Section 303.
Notwithstanding any provisions of Section 307 to the contrary, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on any Security in global form shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein.
 
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 309 and except as provided in the preceding paragraph, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall treat as the Holder of such principal amount of Outstanding Securities represented by a permanent global Security (i), in the case of a global Registered Security, the Holder thereof, or (ii) in the case of a global Bearer Security, Euroclear or Clearstream.
SECTION 301. . The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in one or more Board Resolutions of the Company or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions of the Company and, subject to Section 303, set forth in, or determined in the manner provided in, an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series, any or all of the following, as applicable (each of which (except for the matters set forth in clauses (1), (2) and (17) below), if so provided, may be determined from time to time by the Company with respect to unissued Securities of the series and set forth in such Securities of the series when issued from time to time):
(1) title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other series of Securities) and whether such Securities are senior or subordinated;
(2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906, 1107 or 1305);
(3) the date or dates, or the method by which such date or dates will be determined or extended, on which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable;
(4) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method by which such rate or rates shall be determined, the date or dates from which any such interest shall accrue, or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable, the right, if any, of the Company to defer or extend an Interest Payment Date, and the Regular Record Date, if any, for the interest payable on any Registered Security on any Interest Payment Date, or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, and the basis upon which interest shall be calculated if other than on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months;
 
 
(5) the place or places, if any, other than or in addition to the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on Securities of the series shall be payable (which in the case of Bearer Securities shall be outside the United States), where any Registered Securities of the series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, where Securities of the series may be surrendered for exchange, where Securities of the series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable, and, if different than the location specified in Section 105, the place or places where notices or demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of the series and this Indenture may be served;
(6) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, the Currency in which, and other terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, if the Company is to have that option;
(7) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, repay or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision or at the option of a Holder thereof, and the period or periods within which or the date or dates on which, the price or prices at which, the Currency in which, and other terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the series shall be redeemed, repaid or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
(8) if other than minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above such minimum denomination, the denomination or denominations in which any Registered Securities of the series shall be issuable and, if other than denominations of $5,000, the denomination or denominations in which any Bearer Securities of the series shall be issuable;
(9) if other than the Trustee, the identity of each Security Registrar and/or Paying Agent;
(10) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series that shall be payable upon an acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, upon redemption of the Securities of the series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity, upon surrender for repayment at the option of the Holder, or which the Trustee shall be entitled to claim pursuant to Section 504 or the method by which such portion shall be determined;
(11) if other than Dollar, the Currency or Currencies in which payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series shall be made or in which the Securities of the series shall be denominated and the particular provisions applicable thereto in accordance with, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of Section 312;
 
 
(12) whether the amount of payments of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, formula or other method (which index, formula or method may be based, without limitation, on one or more Currencies, commodities, equity indices or other indices), and the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(13) whether the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in a Currency other than that in which such Securities are denominated or stated to be payable, the period or periods within which (including the Election Date), and the terms and conditions upon which, such election may be made, and the time and manner of determining the exchange rate between the Currency in which such Securities are denominated or stated to be payable and the Currency in which such Securities are to be so paid, in each case in accordance with, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of Section 312;
(14) the designation of the initial Exchange Rate Agent, if any, or any depositaries;
(15) if Sections 1402 and/or 1403 are not applicable to the Securities of the series and any provisions in modification of, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of Article Fourteen that shall be applicable to the Securities of the series;
(16) provisions, if any, granting special rights to the Holders of Securities of the series upon the occurrence of such events as may be specified;
(17) any deletions from, modifications of or additions to the Events of Default or covenants of the Company or with respect to Securities of the series, whether or not such Events of Default or covenants are consistent with the Events of Default or covenants set forth herein;
(18) whether Securities of the series are to be issuable as Registered Securities, Bearer Securities (with or without coupons) or both, any restrictions applicable to the offer, sale or delivery of Bearer Securities, whether such Securities are to be issuable initially in temporary global form, whether such Securities are to be issuable in permanent global form with or without coupons and, if so, whether beneficial owners of interests in any such permanent global Security may exchange such interests for definitive Securities of the series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in Section 305, whether Registered Securities of the series may be exchanged for Bearer Securities of the series (if permitted by applicable laws and regulations), and the circumstances under which and the place or places where any such exchanges may be made and if Securities of the series are to be issuable in global form, the identity of any Depositary therefor;
(19) the date as of which any Bearer Securities of the series and any temporary global Security representing Outstanding Bearer Securities of the series shall be dated if other than the date of original issuance of the first Security of the series to be issued;
 
 
(20) the Person to whom any interest on any Registered Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, the manner in which, or the Person to whom, any interest on any Bearer Security of the series shall be payable, if otherwise than upon presentation and surrender of the coupons appertaining thereto as they severally mature, and the extent to which, or the manner in which, any interest payable on a temporary global Security on an Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in Section 304; and the extent to which, or the manner in which, any interest payable on a permanent global Security on an Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in Section 307;
(21) if Securities of the series are to be issuable in definitive form (whether upon original issue or upon exchange of a temporary Security of such series) only upon receipt of certain certificates or other documents or satisfaction of other conditions, then the form and/or terms of such certificates, documents or conditions;
(22) if the Securities of the series are to be issued upon the exercise of warrants, the time, manner and place for such Securities to be authenticated and delivered;
(23) whether, under what circumstances and the Currency in which the Company will pay Additional Amounts as contemplated by Section 1010 on the Securities of the series to any Holder (including any modification to the definition of such term) in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge and, if so, whether the Company will have the option to redeem such Securities rather than pay such Additional Amounts (and the terms of any such option);
(24) if the Securities of the series are to be convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any Person (including the Company), the terms and conditions upon which such Securities will be so convertible or exchangeable;
(25) whether the Securities of the series are subject to subordination and, if so, the terms of such subordination; and
(26) any other terms, conditions, rights and preferences (or limitations on such rights and preferences) relating to the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act or the provisions of this Indenture).
All Securities of any one series and the coupons appertaining to any Bearer Securities of such series shall be substantially identical except, in the case of Registered Securities, as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to such Board Resolution or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions (subject to Section 303) and set forth in such Officers' Certificate or in any such indenture supplemental hereto. Not all Securities of any one series need be issued at the same time, and, unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened, without the consent of the Holders, for issuances of additional Securities of such series.
 
 
If any of the terms of the Securities of any series are established by action taken pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions, such Board Resolutions shall be delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the issuance of the first Security of such series.
SECTION 302. . The Securities of each series shall be issuable in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 301. With respect to Securities of any series denominated in Dollars, in the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of such series, the Registered Securities of such series, other than Registered Securities issued in global form (which may be of any denomination), shall be issuable in a minimum denomination of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above such minimum denomination and the Bearer Securities of such series, other than the Bearer Securities issued in global form (which may be of any denomination), shall be issuable in the denomination of $5,000.
Denominations
SECTION 303. . The Securities and any coupons appertaining thereto shall be executed on behalf of the Company by an individual or individuals duly authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company to execute the Securities and the coupons. The signature of any of these authorized persons on the Securities or coupons may be the manual or facsimile signatures of the present or any future such authorized person and may be imprinted or otherwise reproduced on the Securities.
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating
Securities or coupons bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at the time of such execution of the Securities or coupons the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series, together with any coupons appertaining thereto, duly executed by the Company, to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with such Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities; , , that, in connection with its original issuance, no Bearer Security shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to any location in the United States; and that, unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, a Bearer Security may be delivered in connection with its original issuance only if the Person entitled to receive such Bearer Security shall have furnished a certificate in the form set forth in Exhibit A-1 to this Indenture (or such other certificate as may be specified with respect to any series of Security pursuant to Section 301), dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the earlier of the date on which such Bearer Security is delivered and the date on which any temporary Security first becomes exchangeable for such Bearer Security in accordance with the terms of such temporary Security and this Indenture. If any Security shall be represented by a permanent global Bearer Security, then, for purposes of this Section and Section 304, the notation of a beneficial owner's interest therein upon original issuance of such Security or upon exchange of a portion of a temporary global Security shall be deemed to be delivery in connection with its original issuance of such beneficial owner's interest in such permanent global Security. Except as permitted by
provided
however
provided
further
 
Section 306, the Trustee shall not authenticate and deliver any Bearer Security unless all appurtenant coupons for interest then matured have been detached and cancelled. If not all the Securities of any series are to be issued at one time and if the Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate pursuant to a Board Resolution, or supplemental indenture establishing such series shall so permit, such Company Order may set forth procedures acceptable to the Trustee for the issuance of such Securities and determining terms of particular Securities of such series such as interest rate or formula, maturity, any redemption or repayment provisions, date of issuance and date from which interest shall accrue.
In authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall receive, and shall be fully protected in conclusively relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating in effect (subject to customary exceptions):
(i) that the form or forms of such Securities and any coupons have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(ii) that the terms of such Securities and any coupons have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(iii) that such Securities and coupons, when completed by appropriate insertions and executed and delivered by the Company to the Trustee for authentication in accordance with this Indenture, authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in accordance with this Indenture and issued in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will be the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally (including without limitation on all laws relating to fraudulent transfers) and to general principles of equity;
(iv) that all laws and requirements in respect of the execution and delivery by the Company of such Securities, coupons, if any, and of the supplemental indentures, if any, have been complied with and that authentication and delivery of such Securities and coupons, if any, and the execution and delivery of the supplemental indenture, if any, by the Trustee will not violate the terms of the Indenture;
(v) that the Company has the corporate power to issue such Securities and any coupons and has duly taken all necessary corporate action with respect to such issuance; and
(vi) that the issuance of such Securities and coupons, if any, will not contravene the articles of incorporation or by-laws of the Company or result in any violation of any of the terms or provisions of any law or regulation or of any indenture, mortgage or other agreement known to such Counsel by which the Company is bound.
 
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 301 and of the preceding two paragraphs, if not all the Securities of any series are to be issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 301 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs prior to or at the time of issuance of each Security, but such documents shall be delivered prior to or at the time of issuance of the first Security of such series.
The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate and deliver any such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture is unlawful or will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Each Registered Security shall be dated the date of its authentication and each Bearer Security shall be dated as of the date specified as contemplated by Section 301.
No Security or coupon shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized signatory, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 310 together with a written statement (which need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
SECTION 304. . Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, in registered form or, if authorized, in bearer form with one or more coupons or without coupons, and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities or coupons may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities or coupons, as the case may be. Such temporary Securities may be in global form.
Temporary Securities
Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form (which shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraphs), if temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series (accompanied by any unmatured coupons appertaining thereto), the Company shall execute and the Trustee, upon receipt of a written instruction, shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like
 
principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor of authorized denominations; , , that no definitive Bearer Security shall be delivered in exchange for a temporary Registered Security; and that a definitive Bearer Security shall be delivered in exchange for a temporary Bearer Security only in compliance with the conditions set forth in Section 303. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
provided
however
provided
further
If temporary Securities of any series are issued in global form, any such temporary global Security shall, unless otherwise provided therein, be delivered to the London office of a depositary or common depositary (the "Common Depositary"), for the benefit of Euroclear and Clearstream, for credit to the respective accounts of the beneficial owners of such Securities (or to such other accounts as they may direct).
Without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the date specified in, or determined pursuant to the terms of, any such temporary global Security (the "Exchange Date"), the Company shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities of the same series executed by the Company, in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such temporary global Security. On or after the Exchange Date such temporary global Security shall be surrendered by the Common Depositary to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or from time to time in part, for definitive Securities of the same series without charge and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such temporary global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such temporary global Security to be exchanged. The definitive Securities to be delivered in exchange for any such temporary global Security shall be in bearer form, registered form, permanent global bearer form or permanent global registered form, or any combination thereof, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, and, if any combination thereof is so specified, as requested by the beneficial owner thereof, provided that, unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, upon such presentation by the Common Depositary, such temporary global Security is accompanied by a certificate dated the Exchange Date or a subsequent date and signed by Euroclear as to the portion of such temporary global Security held for its account then to be exchanged and a certificate dated the Exchange Date or a subsequent date and signed by Clearstream as to the portion of such temporary global Security held for its account then to be exchanged, each in the form set forth in Exhibit A-2 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301); and provided, however, that definitive Bearer Securities shall be delivered in exchange for a portion of a temporary global Security only in compliance with the requirements of Section 303.
Unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, the interest of a beneficial owner of a temporary global Security shall be exchanged for definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor following the Exchange Date when the account holder instructs Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, to request such exchange on his behalf and delivers to Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, a certificate in the form set forth in Exhibit A-1 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301), dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the Exchange Date, copies of which certificate shall be available from the offices of Euroclear and Clearstream, the Trustee, any
 
Authenticating Agent appointed for such series of Securities and each Paying Agent. Unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, any such exchange shall be made free of charge to the beneficial owners of such temporary global Security, except that a Person receiving definitive Securities must bear the cost of insurance, postage, transportation and the like in the event that such Person does not take delivery of such definitive Securities in person at the offices of Euroclear or Clearstream. Definitive Securities in bearer form to be delivered in exchange for any portion of a temporary global Security shall be delivered only outside the United States.
Until exchanged in full as hereinabove provided, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor authenticated and delivered hereunder, except that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, interest payable on a temporary global Security on an Interest Payment Date for Securities of such series occurring prior to the applicable Exchange Date shall be payable to Euroclear and Clearstream on such Interest Payment Date upon delivery by Euroclear and Clearstream to the Trustee or the applicable Paying Agent of a certificate or certificates in the form set forth in Exhibit A-2 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301), for credit without further interest thereon on or after such Interest Payment Date to the respective accounts of the Persons who are the beneficial owners of such temporary global Security on such Interest Payment Date and who have each delivered to Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, a certificate dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the Interest Payment Date occurring prior to such Exchange Date in the form set forth in Exhibit A-1 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, the certifications made pursuant to this paragraph shall satisfy the certification requirements of the preceding two paragraphs of this Section and of the third paragraph of Section 303 of this Indenture and the interests of the Persons who are the beneficial owners of the temporary global Security with respect to which such certification was made will be exchanged for definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor on the Exchange Date or the date of certification if such date occurs after the Exchange Date, without further act or deed by such beneficial owners. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no payments of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, owing with respect to a beneficial interest in a temporary global Security will be made unless and until such interest in such temporary global Security shall have been exchanged for an interest in a definitive Security. Any interest so received by Euroclear and Clearstream and not paid as herein provided shall be returned to the Trustee or the applicable Paying Agent immediately prior to the expiration of two years after such Interest Payment Date in order to be repaid to the Company in accordance with (but otherwise subject to) Section 1003.
SECTION 305. . The Company or the Trustee shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register for each series of Securities (the registers maintained in the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Registered Securities and of transfers of Registered Securities; , , that there shall be only one Security Register per series of Securities. The Security Register shall be in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time. At all reasonable times, the Security Register shall be open to inspection by the Trustee.
Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange
provided
however
 
The Trustee is hereby initially appointed as security registrar (the "Security Registrar") for the purpose of registering Registered Securities and transfers of Registered Securities as herein provided and for facilitating exchanges of temporary global Securities for permanent global Securities or definitive Securities, or both, or of permanent global Securities for definitive Securities, as herein provided.
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Registered Security of any series at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee, one or more new Registered Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor.
At the option of the Holder, Registered Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Registered Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination and of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Registered Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Registered Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Registered Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities as contemplated by Section 301, Bearer Securities may not be issued in exchange for Registered Securities.
If (but only if) expressly permitted in or pursuant to the applicable Board Resolution and (subject to Section 303) set forth in the applicable Officers' Certificate, or in any indenture supplemental hereto, delivered as contemplated by Section 301, at the option of the Holder, Bearer Securities of any series may be exchanged for Registered Securities of the same series of any authorized denomination and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor, upon surrender of the Bearer Securities to be exchanged at any such office or agency, with all unmatured coupons and all matured coupons in default thereto appertaining. If the Holder of a Bearer Security is unable to produce any such unmatured coupon or coupons or matured coupon or coupons in default, any such permitted exchange may be effected if the Bearer Securities are accompanied by payment in funds acceptable to the Company in an amount equal to the face amount of such missing coupon or coupons, or the surrender of such missing coupon or coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee if there is furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may reasonably require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to any Paying Agent any such missing coupon in respect of which such a payment shall have been made, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount of such payment; , , that, except as otherwise provided in Section 1002, interest represented by coupons shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of those coupons at an office or agency located outside the United States. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in case a Bearer Security of any series is surrendered at any such office or agency in a permitted exchange for a Registered Security of the same series and like tenor after the close of business at such office or agency on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, such Bearer Security shall be surrendered without the coupon relating to such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, and interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be
provided
however
 
payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of the Registered Security issued in exchange for such Bearer Security, but will be payable only to the Holder of such coupon when due in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities that the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, any permanent global Security shall be exchangeable only as provided in this paragraph. Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, all Bearer Securities issued in permanent global form, upon request of the beneficial owner and in accordance with the following provisions, will be exchangeable for definitive Bearer Securities. If any beneficial owner of an interest in a permanent global Security is entitled to exchange such interest for Securities of such series and of like tenor and principal amount of another authorized form and denomination, as specified as contemplated by Section 301 and provided that any applicable notice provided in the permanent global Security shall have been given, then without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the earliest date on which such interest may be so exchanged, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities of that series in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such beneficial owner's interest in such permanent global Security, executed by the Company. On or after the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, such permanent global Security shall be surrendered by the Common Depositary or such other depositary as shall be specified in the Company Order with respect thereto to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or from time to time in part, for definitive Securities of the same series without charge, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such permanent global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such permanent global Security to be exchanged which, unless the Securities of the series are not issuable both as Bearer Securities and as Registered Securities, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, shall be in the form of Bearer Securities or Registered Securities, or any combination thereof, as shall be specified by the beneficial owner thereof; , , that no such exchanges may occur during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before any selection of Securities to be redeemed and ending on the relevant Redemption Date if the Security for which exchange is requested may be among those selected for redemption; and , , that no Bearer Security delivered in exchange for a portion of a permanent global Security shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to any location in the United States. If a definitive Registered Security is issued in exchange for any portion of a permanent global Security after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of such definitive Registered Security, but will be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, only to the Person to whom interest in respect of such portion of such permanent global Security is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
provided
however
provided
further
 
 
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Registered Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906, 1107 or 1305 not involving any transfer.
If at any time the Depositary for any permanent global Registered Securities of any series notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such permanent global Registered Securities or if at any time the Depositary for such permanent global Registered Securities shall no longer be eligible to so continue under applicable law, the Company shall appoint a successor Depositary eligible under applicable law with respect to such permanent global Registered Securities. If a successor Depositary eligible under applicable law for such Registered Global Securities is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility or if there has occurred and is continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series, the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of the Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor, will authenticate and deliver such definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor, in any authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Registered Securities, in exchange for such permanent global Registered Securities.
The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that any permanent global Registered Securities of any series shall no longer be maintained in global form. In such event the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of the Company's order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor, will authenticate and deliver, definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor in any authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Registered Securities, in exchange for such permanent global Registered Securities.
The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the selection for redemption of Securities of that series under Section 1103 or
 
1203 and ending at the close of business on (A) if Securities of the series are issuable only as Registered Securities, the day of the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption and (B) if Securities of the series are issuable as Bearer Securities, the day of the first publication of the relevant notice of redemption or, if Securities of the series are also issuable as Registered Securities and there is no publication, the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Registered Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part, or (iii) to exchange any Bearer Security so selected for redemption except that such a Bearer Security may be exchanged for a Registered Security of that series and like tenor, provided that such Registered Security shall be simultaneously surrendered for redemption, or (iv) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security which has been surrendered for repayment at the option of the Holder, except the portion, if any, of such Security not to be so repaid.
The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer that may be imposed under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of any series pursuant to the terms thereof established as contemplated by Section 301 or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any such Security (including any transfers between or among any depositary (including any Depositary or Common Depositary), or its nominee, as a Holder of a Security issued in global form, any participants in such depositary or owners or holders of beneficial interests in any such global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by, the terms of such Securities if and as may be so established in respect of such Securities, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements thereof.
SECTION 306. . If any mutilated Security or a Security with a mutilated coupon appertaining to it is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously Outstanding, with coupons corresponding to the coupons, if any, appertaining to the surrendered Security.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security or coupon and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security or coupon has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security or in exchange for the Security to which a destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains (with all appurtenant coupons not destroyed, lost or stolen), a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously Outstanding, with coupons corresponding to the coupons, if any, appertaining to such destroyed, lost or stolen Security or to the Security to which such destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains.
 
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of the previous two paragraphs, in case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or coupon has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, with coupons corresponding to the coupons, if any, appertaining to such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or to the Security to which such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains, pay such Security or coupon; , , that payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on Bearer Securities shall, except as otherwise provided in Section 1002, be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, any interest on Bearer Securities shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the coupons appertaining thereto.
provided
however
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every new Security of any series, with its coupons, if any, issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security, or in exchange for a Security to which a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains, shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security and its coupons, if any, or the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series and their coupons, if any, duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or coupons.
SECTION 307. . (a) Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, interest, if any, on any Registered Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose pursuant to Section 1002; , , that each installment of interest, if any, on any Registered Security (other than a global Security) on an Interest Payment Date may at the Company's option be paid by (i) mailing a check for such interest, payable to or upon the written order of the Person entitled thereto pursuant to Section 309, to the address of such Person as it appears on the Security Register or (ii) transfer to an account located in the United States maintained by the payee.
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved; Optional Interest Reset
provided
however
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to the Securities of any series, payment of interest, if any, may be made, in the case of a Bearer Security, by transfer to an account located outside the United States maintained by the payee.
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301, every permanent global Security will provide that interest, if any, payable on any Interest Payment Date will be paid to each of Euroclear and Clearstream with respect to that portion of such permanent global Security held for its account by the Common Depositary, for the purpose of permitting each of Euroclear and Clearstream to credit the interest, if any, received by it in respect of such permanent global Security to the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof.
 
 
Any interest on any Registered Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such defaulted interest and, if applicable, interest on such defaulted interest (to the extent lawful) at the rate or formula specified in the Securities of such series (such defaulted interest and, if applicable, interest thereon herein collectively called "Defaulted Interest") may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below:
(1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Registered Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Registered Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest that shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be given in the manner provided in Section 106, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so given, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose name the Registered Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2).
(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Registered Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
 
(b) The provisions of this Section 307(b) may be made applicable to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301 (with such modifications, additions or substitutions as may be specified pursuant to such Section 301). The interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) on any Security of such series may be reset by the Company on the date or dates specified on the face of such Security (each an "Optional Reset Date"). The Company may exercise such option with respect to such Security by notifying the Trustee of such exercise at least 50 but not more than 60 days prior to an Optional Reset Date for such Security. Not later than 40 days prior to each Optional Reset Date, the Trustee shall transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, to the Holder of any such Security a notice (the "Reset Notice") indicating whether the Company has elected to reset the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable), and if so (i) such new interest rate (or such new spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) and (ii) the provisions, if any, for redemption during the period from such Optional Reset Date to the next Optional Reset Date or if there is no such next Optional Reset Date, to the Stated Maturity of such Security (each such period a "Subsequent Interest Period"), including the date or dates on which or the period or periods during which and the price or prices at which such redemption may occur during the Subsequent Interest Period.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, not later than 20 days prior to the Optional Reset Date, the Company may, at its option, revoke the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) provided for in the Reset Notice and establish an interest rate (or a spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) that is higher than the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) provided for in the Reset Notice, for the Subsequent Interest Period by causing the Trustee to transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, notice of such higher interest rate (or such higher spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) to the Holder of such Security. Such notice shall be irrevocable. All Securities with respect to which the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) is reset on an Optional Reset Date, and with respect to which the Holders of such Securities have not tendered such Securities for repayment (or have validly revoked any such tender) pursuant to the next succeeding paragraph, will bear such higher interest rate (or such higher spread or spread multiplier, if applicable).
The Holder of any such Security will have the option to elect repayment by the Company of the principal of such Security on each Optional Reset Date at a price equal to the principal amount thereof plus interest accrued to such Optional Reset Date. In order to obtain repayment on an Optional Reset Date, the Holder must follow the procedures set forth in Article Thirteen for repayment at the option of Holders except that the period for delivery or notification to the Trustee shall be at least 25 but not more than 35 days prior to such Optional Reset Date and except that, if the Holder has tendered any Security for repayment pursuant to the Reset Notice, the Holder may, by written notice to the Trustee, revoke such tender or repayment until the close of business on the tenth day before such Optional Reset Date.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section and Section 305, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
 
 
SECTION 308. . The provisions of this Section 308 may be made applicable to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301 (with such modifications, additions or substitutions as may be specified pursuant to such Section 301). The Maturity of any Security of such series may be extended at the option of the Company for the period or periods specified on the face of such Security (each an "Extension Period") up to but not beyond the Stated Maturity set forth on the face of such Security. The Company may exercise such option with respect to any Security by notifying the Trustee of such exercise at least 50 but not more than 60 days prior to the Maturity of such Security in effect prior to the exercise of such option. If the Company exercises such option, the Trustee shall transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, to the Holder of such Security not later than 40 days prior to the Maturity a notice (the "Extension Notice") indicating (i) the election of the Company to extend the Maturity, (ii) the new Maturity, (iii) the interest rate, if any, applicable to the Extension Period and (iv) the provisions, if any, for redemption during such Extension Period. Upon the Trustee's transmittal of the Extension Notice, the Maturity of such Security shall be extended automatically and, except as modified by the Extension Notice and as described in the next paragraph, such Security will have the same terms as prior to the transmittal of such Extension Notice.
Optional Extension of Maturity
Notwithstanding the foregoing, not later than 20 days before the Maturity of such Security, the Company may, at its option, revoke the interest rate provided for in the Extension Notice and establish a higher interest rate for the Extension Period by causing the Trustee to transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, notice of such higher interest rate (or such higher spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) to the Holder of such Security. Such notice shall be irrevocable. All Securities with respect to which the Maturity is extended will bear such higher interest rate.
If the Company extends the Maturity of any Security, the Holder will have the option to elect repayment of such Security by the Company at Maturity at a price equal to the principal amount thereof, plus interest accrued to such date. In order to obtain repayment at Maturity once the Company has extended the Maturity thereof, the Holder must follow the procedures set forth in Article Thirteen for repayment at the option of Holders, except that the period for delivery or notification to the Trustee shall be at least 25 but not more than 35 days prior to the Maturity and except that, if the Holder has tendered any Security for repayment pursuant to an Extension Notice, the Holder may by written notice to the Trustee revoke such tender for repayment until the close of business on the tenth day before the Maturity.
SECTION 309. . Prior to due presentment of a Registered Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Registered Security is registered as the absolute owner of such Registered Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Sections 305 and 307) interest, if any, on such Registered Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Registered Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
 
Title to any Bearer Security and any coupons appertaining thereto shall pass by delivery. The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the bearer of any Bearer Security and the bearer of any coupon as the absolute owner of such Bearer Security or coupon for the purpose of receiving payment thereof or on account thereof and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Bearer Security or coupons be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Security in global form or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests. The Company, the Trustee and the Securities Registrar shall be entitled to deal with any depositary (including any Depositary or Common Depositary), and any nominee thereof, that is the Holder of any such global Security for all purposes of this Indenture relating to such global Security (including the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, the giving of instructions or directions by or to the owner or holder of a beneficial ownership interest in such global Security) as the sole Holder of such global Security and shall have no obligations to the beneficial owners thereof. None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any acts or omissions of any such depositary with respect to such global Security, for the records of any such depositary, including records in respect of beneficial ownership interests in respect of any such global Security, for any transactions between such depositary and any participant in such depositary or between or among any such depositary, any such participant and/or any holder or owner of a beneficial interest in such global Security or for any transfers of beneficial interests in any such global Security.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any global Security, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee, or any agent of the Company or the Trustee, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by any depositary (including any Depositary or Common Depositary), as a Holder, with respect to such global Security or impair, as between such depositary and owners of beneficial interests in such global Security, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of such depositary (or its nominee) as Holder of such global Security.
SECTION 310. . All Securities and coupons surrendered for payment, redemption, repayment at the option of the Holder, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any current or future sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee. All Securities and coupons so delivered to the Trustee shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. If the Company shall so acquire any of the Securities, however, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Securities unless and until the same are surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted
Cancellation
 
by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities and coupons held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with its customary procedures and, if requested by the Company in writing, the Trustee shall provide certification of their disposal to the Company, unless by Company Order the Company shall timely direct that cancelled Securities be returned to it.
SECTION 311. . Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to Securities of any series, interest, if any, on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Computation of Interest
SECTION 312. . (a) Unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, with respect to Registered Securities of any series not permitting the election provided for in paragraph (b) below or the Holders of which have not made the election provided for in paragraph (b) below, and with respect to Bearer Securities of any series, except as provided in paragraph (d) below, payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on any Registered Security or Bearer Security of such series will be made in the Currency in which such Registered Security or Bearer Security, as the case may be, is payable. The provisions of this Section 312 may be modified or superseded with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301.
Currency and Manner of Payments in Respect of Securities
(b) It may be provided pursuant to Section 301 with respect to Registered Securities of any series that Holders shall have the option, subject to paragraphs (d) and (e) below, to receive payments of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on such Registered Securities in any of the Currencies which may be designated for such election by delivering to the Trustee a written election with signature guarantees and in the applicable form established pursuant to Section 301, not later than the close of business on the Election Date immediately preceding the applicable payment date. If a Holder so elects to receive such payments in any such Currency, such election will remain in effect for such Holder or any transferee of such Holder until changed by such Holder or such transferee by written notice to the Trustee (but any such change must be made not later than the close of business on the Election Date immediately preceding the next payment date to be effective for the payment to be made on such payment date and no such change of election may be made with respect to payments to be made on any Registered Security of such series with respect to which an Event of Default has occurred or with respect to which the Company has deposited funds pursuant to Article Four or Fourteen or with respect to which a notice of redemption has been given by the Company or a notice of option to elect repayment has been sent by such Holder or such transferee). Any Holder of any such Registered Security who shall not have delivered any such election to the Trustee not later than the close of business on the applicable Election Date will be paid the amount due on the applicable payment date in the relevant Currency as provided in Section 312(a). The Trustee shall notify the Exchange Rate Agent as soon as practicable after the Election Date of the aggregate principal amount of Registered Securities for which Holders have made such written election.
(c) Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, if the election referred to in paragraph (b) above has been provided for pursuant to Section 301, then, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, not later than the fourth Business Day after the Election
 
Date for each payment date for Registered Securities of any series, the Exchange Rate Agent will deliver to the Company a written notice specifying the Currency in which Registered Securities of such series are payable, the respective aggregate amounts of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Registered Securities to be paid on such payment date and the amounts in such Currency so payable in respect of the Registered Securities as to which the Holders of Registered Securities of such series shall have elected to be paid in another Currency as provided in paragraph (b) above. If the election referred to in paragraph (b) above has been provided for pursuant to Section 301 and if at least one Holder has made such election, then, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, on the second Business Day preceding such payment date the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate in respect of the Dollar or Foreign Currency payments to be made on such payment date. Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, the Dollar or Foreign Currency amount receivable by Holders of Registered Securities who have elected payment in a Currency as provided in paragraph (b) above shall be determined by the Company on the basis of the applicable Market Exchange Rate in effect on the third Business Day (the "Valuation Date") immediately preceding each payment date, and such determination shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(d) If a Conversion Event occurs with respect to a Foreign Currency in which any of the Securities are denominated or payable other than pursuant to an election provided for pursuant to paragraph (b) above, then with respect to each date for the payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the applicable Securities denominated or payable in such Foreign Currency occurring after the last date on which such Foreign Currency was used (the "Conversion Date"), the Dollar shall be the Currency of payment for use on each such payment date. Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, the Dollar amount to be paid by the Company to the Trustee and by the Trustee or any Paying Agent to the Holders of such Securities with respect to such payment date shall be, in the case of a Foreign Currency other than a currency unit, the Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency or, in the case of a currency unit, the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, in each case as determined by the Exchange Rate Agent in the manner provided in paragraph (f) or (g) below.
(e) Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, if the Holder of a Registered Security denominated in any Currency shall have elected to be paid in another Currency as provided in paragraph (b) above, and a Conversion Event occurs with respect to such elected Currency, such Holder shall receive payment in the Currency in which payment would have been made in the absence of such election; and if a Conversion Event occurs with respect to the Currency in which payment would have been made in the absence of such election, such Holder shall receive payment in Dollars as provided in paragraph (d) above.
(f) The "Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency" shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent and shall be obtained for each subsequent payment date by converting the specified Foreign Currency into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate on the Conversion Date.
(g) The "Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit" shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent and subject to the provisions of paragraph (h) below shall be the sum of each amount obtained by converting the Specified Amount of each Component Currency into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate for such Component Currency on the Valuation Date with respect to each payment.
 
 
(h) For purposes of this Section 312 the following terms shall have the following meanings:
A "Component Currency" shall mean any Currency which, on the Conversion Date, was a component currency of the relevant currency unit.
A "Specified Amount" of a Component Currency shall mean the number of units of such Component Currency or fractions thereof which were represented in the relevant currency unit on the Conversion Date. If after the Conversion Date the official unit of any Component Currency is altered by way of combination or subdivision, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall be divided or multiplied in the same proportion. If after the Conversion Date two or more Component Currencies are consolidated into a single currency, the respective Specified Amounts of such Component Currencies shall be replaced by an amount in such single Currency equal to the sum of the respective Specified Amounts of such consolidated Component Currencies expressed in such single Currency, and such amount shall thereafter be a Specified Amount and such single Currency shall thereafter be a Component Currency. If after the Conversion Date any Component Currency shall be divided into two or more currencies, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall be replaced by amounts of such two or more currencies, having an aggregate Dollar Equivalent value at the Market Exchange Rate on the date of such replacement equal to the Dollar Equivalent value of the Specified Amount of such former Component Currency at the Market Exchange Rate immediately before such division and such amounts shall thereafter be Specified Amounts and such currencies shall thereafter be Component Currencies. If, after the Conversion Date of the relevant currency unit, a Conversion Event (other than any event referred to above in this definition of "Specified Amount") occurs with respect to any Component Currency of such currency unit and is continuing on the applicable Valuation Date, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall, for purposes of calculating the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, be converted into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate in effect on the Conversion Date of such Component Currency.
"Election Date" shall mean the date for any series of Registered Securities as specified pursuant to clause (13) of Section 301 by which the written election referred to in paragraph (b) above may be made.
All decisions and determinations of the Exchange Rate Agent regarding the Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency, the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, the Market Exchange Rate and changes in the Specified Amounts as specified above shall be in its sole discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive for all purposes and irrevocably binding upon the Company, the Trustee and all Holders of such Securities denominated or payable in the relevant Currency. The Exchange Rate Agent shall promptly give written notice to the Company and the Trustee of any such decision or determination.
 
 
In the event that the Company determines in good faith that a Conversion Event has occurred with respect to a Foreign Currency, the Company will immediately give written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Exchange Rate Agent (and the Trustee will promptly thereafter give notice in the manner provided for in Section 106 to the affected Holders) specifying the Conversion Date. In the event the Company so determines that a Conversion Event has occurred with respect to any Foreign Currency unit in which Securities are denominated or payable, the Company will immediately give written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Exchange Rate Agent (and the Trustee will promptly thereafter give notice in the manner provided for in Section 106 to the affected Holders) specifying the Conversion Date and the Specified Amount of each Component Currency on the Conversion Date. In the event the Company determines in good faith that any subsequent change in any Component Currency as set forth in the definition of Specified Amount above has occurred, the Company will similarly give written notice to the Trustee and the Exchange Rate Agent. The Trustee shall be fully justified and protected in conclusively relying and acting upon information received by it from the Company and the Exchange Rate Agent and shall not otherwise have any duty or obligation to determine the accuracy or validity of such information independent of the Company or the Exchange Rate Agent.
SECTION 313. . (a) Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, if and so long as the Securities of any series (i) are denominated in a Foreign Currency or (ii) may be payable in a Foreign Currency, or so long as it is required under any other provision of this Indenture, then the Company will maintain with respect to each such series of Securities, or as so required, at least one Exchange Rate Agent. The Company will cause the Exchange Rate Agent to make the necessary foreign exchange determinations at the time and in the manner specified pursuant to Section 301 for the purpose of determining the applicable rate of exchange and, if applicable, for the purpose of converting the denominated Currency into the applicable payment Currency for the payment of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, pursuant to Section 312.
Appointment and Resignation of Successor Exchange Rate Agent
(b) No resignation of the Exchange Rate Agent and no appointment of a successor Exchange Rate Agent pursuant to this Section shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Exchange Rate Agent as evidenced by a written instrument delivered to the Company and the Trustee.
(c) If the Exchange Rate Agent shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of the Exchange Rate Agent for any cause with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Exchange Rate Agent or Exchange Rate Agents with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Exchange Rate Agent may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, at any time there shall only be one Exchange Rate Agent with respect to the Securities of any particular series that are originally issued by the Company on the same date and that are initially denominated and/or payable in the same Currency).
 
 
SECTION 401. . This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect with respect to any series of Securities specified in such Company Request (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities of such series expressly provided for herein or pursuant hereto, and any right to receive Additional Amounts, as contemplated by Section 1010) and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series when
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
(1) either
(A) all Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered and all coupons, if any, appertaining thereto (other than (i) coupons appertaining to Bearer Securities surrendered for exchange for Registered Securities and maturing after such exchange, whose surrender is not required or has been waived as provided in Section 305, (ii) Securities and coupons of such series which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 306, (iii) coupons appertaining to Securities called for redemption and maturing after the relevant Redemption Date, whose surrender has been waived as provided in Section 1106, and (iv) Securities and coupons of such series for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust with the Trustee or any Paying Agent or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 1003) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
(B) all Securities of such series and, in the case of (i) or (ii) below, any coupons appertaining thereto not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation
(i) have become due and payable, or
(ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
(iii) if redeemable at the option of the Company, are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company,
and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for such purpose an amount, in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable, sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities and such coupons not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
 
 
(2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder or under the Securities; and
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series have been complied with.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 606 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003, the last sentence of Section 1011, and the penultimate paragraph of Section 1405 shall survive.
SECTION 402. . Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities, the coupons and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Money so held in trust is subject to the Trustee's rights under Section 606.
Application of Trust Money
SECTION 501. . "Event of Default," wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
Events of Default
(1) default in the payment of any interest on any Security of that series, or any related coupon, when such interest or coupon becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(2) default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity; or
(3) default in the deposit of any principal payment into the sinking fund, when and as due by the terms of any Security of that series and Article Twelve; or
 
 
(4) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or agreement of the Company in this Indenture which affects or is applicable to the Securities of that series (other than a default in the performance or breach of a covenant or agreement that is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of other series of Securities), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after receipt of notice given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
(5) default in the payment of principal or an acceleration of Indebtedness of the Company for borrowed money where the aggregate principal amount with respect to which the default or acceleration has occurred exceeds $100 million and such acceleration has not been rescinded or annulled or such Indebtedness repaid within a period of 30 days after written notice to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities; that if any such default is cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, then the Event of Default by reason thereof would be deemed not to have occurred; or
provided
(6) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under Bankruptcy Law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of their property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of their affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
(7) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under Bankruptcy Law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by them to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company is an involuntary case or proceeding under Bankruptcy Law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against them, or the filing by them of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by them to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of their property, or the making by them of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by them in writing of their inability to pay their debts generally as they become due; or
(8) there occurs any other Event of Default provided pursuant to Section 301 or 901 with respect to Securities of that series.
 
 
SECTION 502. . If an Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (8) of Section 501 with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Outstanding Securities of that series and any accrued and unpaid cash interest through the date of such declaration, to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount shall become immediately due and payable.
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series (or of all series, as the case may be) has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
(1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)),
(A) all overdue interest, if any, on all Outstanding Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) and any related coupons,
(B) all unpaid principal of (and premium, if any) any Outstanding Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) which has become due otherwise than by such a declaration of acceleration, and interest on such unpaid principal (or premium) at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities or, if no such rate or rates are so prescribed, at the rate borne by the Securities during the period of such default,
(C) to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law, interest upon overdue interest to the date of such payment or deposit at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities or, if no such rate or rates are so prescribed, at the rate borne by the Securities during the period of such default, and
(D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and
(2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be), other than the non-payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) or interest, if any, on Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) which have become due solely by such an acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513.
 
 
If an Event of Default described in clause (6) or (7) occurs and is continuing, then the principal amounts (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all the Securities then Outstanding, together with any accrued interest through the occurrence of such Event of Default, shall become and be due and payable immediately, without any declaration or other act by the Trustee or any other Holder.
SECTION 503. . The Company covenants that (1) in case default shall be made in the payment of any installment of interest on any Security of any series and any related coupon, as and when the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of 30 days, or (2) in case default shall be made in the payment of the principal (or premium, if any, on) any Security of any series at its Maturity then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee (such demand and payment in the case of Bearer Securities to occur only outside of the United States, for the benefit of the Holders of Securities of such series and coupons, the whole amount that then shall have become due and payable on such Securities and coupons of that series for principal and any premium or interest, or both, as the case may be, with interest upon the overdue principal and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by or provided for in such Securities during the period of such default, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its negligence or bad faith.
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series (or of all series, as the case may be) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series (or of all series, as the case may be) and any related coupons by such appropriate judicial proceedings necessary to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
SECTION 504. . In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of a series or the property of the Company or such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee, irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities of any series shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of any overdue principal, premium, if any, or interest, shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
(1) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (and premium, if any) (or if the case of Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) and interest, if any, owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
 
 
(2) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same (which distribution, in the case of Bearer Securities or coupons appertaining thereto, shall occur only outside the United States);
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the agreed upon compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 606.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or coupons or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
SECTION 505. . All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities or coupons may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or coupons or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the agreed upon compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities and coupons in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities
SECTION 506. . Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or any premium and interest, upon presentation of the Securities or coupons, or both, as the case may be (such presentation, in the case of Bearer Securities or coupons, to occur only outside the United States) and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
Application of Money Collected
First: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 606;
Second: To the payment (such payment, in the case of Bearer Securities or coupons, to occur only outside the United States) of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities and coupons in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities and coupons for principal and any premium and interest, respectively; and
 
 
Third: To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Company, or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct in writing.
SECTION 507. . No Holder of any Security of any series or any related coupons shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
Limitation on Suits
(1) such Holder shall have previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
(2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (8) of Section 501, or, in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (6) or (7) of Section 501, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities, shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
(3) such Holder or Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
(4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity shall have failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(5) no direction inconsistent with such written request shall have been given to the Trustee pursuant to Section 512 during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (8) of Section 501, or, in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (6) or (7) of Section 501 by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders of Securities of the same series, in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (8) of Section 501, or of Holders of all Securities in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (6) or (7) of Section 501, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable and common benefit of all of such Holders of Securities of that same series in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (8) of Section 501, or of Holders of all Securities in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (6) or (7) of Section 501 (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holders).
 
 
SECTION 508. . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security or coupon shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment as provided herein and in such Security of the principal and any premium and interest on such Security or payment of any related coupon on the respective Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security or coupon (or, in the case of redemption or repayment at the option of the Holder, on the Redemption Date or Repayment Date, as the case may be) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest
SECTION 509. . If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
SECTION 510. . Except as otherwise provided with respect to replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or coupons in Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities and coupons is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
SECTION 511. . No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security or coupon to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities or coupons, as the case may be.
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
SECTION 512. . With respect to the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee relating to or arising under clause (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (8) of Section 501 and, with respect to all Securities; and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, not relating to or arising under clause (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (8) of Section 501; provided, in each case:
Control by Holders
(1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture,
 
 
(2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction,
(3) with respect to actions relating to the Outstanding Securities of any one series, such direction is not unduly prejudicial to the rights of Holders of Securities of such series not taking part in such direction, and
(4) such direction would not involve the Trustee in personal liability, as the Trustee, upon being advised by counsel, shall reasonably determine.
SECTION 513. . Subject to Section 502, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default with respect to such series described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (8) of Section 501 (or, in the case of a default described in clause (6) or (7) of Section 501, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities may waive any such past default with respect to all series) and its consequences, except, in each case, a default:
Waiver of Past Defaults
(1) in respect of the payment of the principal of or any premium and interest on any Security or any related coupon, or
(2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series, or all series, as the case may be, affected.
Upon any such waiver, any such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture, and the Company, the Trustee and Holders shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, respectively; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
SECTION 514. . All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of (or premium if any, on) or interest on any Securities on or after the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption or repayment, on or after the Redemption Date or Repayment Date, as the case may be).
Undertaking for Costs
 
 
SECTION 515. . The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws
SECTION 601. . Within 90 days after the occurrence of any Default hereunder with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall transmit, in the manner and to the extent provided in TIA Section 313(c), notice of such default hereunder known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, unless such Default shall have been cured or waived; ,, that, except in the case of a Default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security of such series or in the payment of any sinking fund installment with respect to Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determine that the withholding of such notice is in the best interest of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related coupons; and, , that in the case of any default or breach of the character specified in Section 501(4) with respect to Securities and coupons of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof.
Notice of Defaults
provided
however
provided
further
SECTION 602. . Subject to the provisions of TIA Sections 315(a) through 315(d):
Certain Duties, Responsibilities and Rights of Trustee
(1) except during the continuance of an Event of Default,
 
 
 
 
(2) if any Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs;
(3) the Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
 
 
(4) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(5) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution of the Company;
(6) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
(7) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice or written opinion of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
 
 
(8) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related coupons pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(9) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company personally or by agent or attorney;
(10) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents, attorneys, custodians, or nominees and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent, attorney, custodian, or nominee appointed with due care by it hereunder;
(11) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
(12) in the event that the Trustee is also acting as Paying Agent, Security Registrar or in any other capacity hereunder, the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits afforded to the Trustee pursuant to this Article Six, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, shall also be afforded to the Trustee in its capacity as such Paying Agent, Security Registrar or in such other capacity and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder;
(13) other than in the case of an Event of Default described under clauses (1), (2) or (3) of Section 501, the Trustee shall not be deemed to know or be charged with knowledge of any Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series for which it is acting as Trustee unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received written notice thereof at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee from the Company or a Holder of such Securities and such notice references this Indenture and such Securities;
(14) the Trustee shall not be required to give any bond or surety in respect of the performance of its powers and duties hereunder; and
(15) in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage.
 
 
The Trustee shall not be required to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 602.
SECTION 603. . The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except for the Trustee's certificates of authentication, and in any coupons shall be taken as the statements of the Company and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities or coupons, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture, authenticate the Securities and perform its obligations hereunder and that the statements made by it in a Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 supplied to the Company are true and accurate, subject to the qualifications set forth therein. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities
SECTION 604. . The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company or of the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and coupons and, subject to TIA Sections 310(b) and 311, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
May Hold Securities
SECTION 605. . Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company for the investment thereof.
Money Held in Trust
SECTION 606. . The Company agrees:
Compensation and Reimbursement
(1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Trustee for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its gross negligence or willful misconduct; and
 
 
(3) to indemnify the Trustee and any predecessor trustee and its and their officers, directors, employees, and agents for, and to hold it or them harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without gross negligence or willful misconduct on its or their part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of defending itself or themselves against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its or their powers or duties hereunder.
The obligations of the Company under this Section to compensate the Trustee, to pay or reimburse the Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances and to indemnify and hold harmless the Trustee shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder and shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the termination of this Indenture for any reason. As security for the performance of such obligations of the Company, the Trustee shall have a claim and lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on particular Securities or any coupons.
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 501(6) or (7), the expenses (including reasonable charges and expense of its counsel) of and the compensation for such services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable U.S. federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
The provisions of this Section shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the termination of this Indenture for any reason and the earlier resignation or removal of the Trustee.
SECTION 607. . There shall be at all times a Trustee hereunder which shall be eligible to act as Trustee under TIA Section 310(a)(1) and shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of U.S. federal, state, territorial or District of Columbia supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article. If the Trustee shall have or acquire any conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, it shall either eliminate such conflicting interest or resign to the extent, in the manner and with the effect, and subject to the conditions, provided in the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. For purposes of Section 310(b)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act and to the extent permitted thereby, the Trustee, in its capacity as trustee in respect of the Securities of any series, shall not be deemed to have a conflicting interest arising from its capacity as trustee in respect of the Securities of any other series. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Trustee from filing the application provided for in the second to last sentence of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility; Conflicting Interests; Disqualification
 
 
SECTION 608. . No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 609 and any and all amounts then due and owing to the Trustee hereunder have been paid in full.
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor
(a) The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 609 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(b) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 609 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 60 days after the giving of such notice of removal, the Trustee being removed may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(c) If at any time:
(1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of TIA Section 310(b) after written request therefor by the Company or any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
(2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 607 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
(3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any such case, (i) the Company, by a Board Resolution, may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to TIA Section 315(e), any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
(d) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the
 
Securities of any particular series). If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner hereinafter provided, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(e) The Company shall give written notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series to the Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided for in Section 106. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
SECTION 609. . In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the written request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder, subject nevertheless to its claim and lien provided for in Section 606.
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor
(a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such
 
supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, subject nevertheless to its claim and lien provided for in Section 606. Whenever there is a successor Trustee with respect to one or more (but less than all) series of securities issued pursuant to this Indenture, the terms "Indenture" and "Securities" shall have the meanings specified in the provisos to the respective definitions of those terms in Section 101 which contemplate such situation.
(b) Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be.
(c) No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article. The Trustee shall have no liability or responsibility for the action or inaction of any successor Trustee.
SECTION 610. . Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities or coupons shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities or coupons so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities or coupons. In case any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated by such predecessor Trustee, any successor Trustee may authenticate and deliver such Securities or coupons either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor Trustee. In all such cases such certificates shall have the full force and effect which this Indenture provides for the certificate of authentication of the Trustee; , , that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or to authenticate Securities in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business
provided
however
 
 
SECTION 611. . At any time when any of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series and the Trustee shall give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, in the manner provided for in Section 106. Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Any such appointment shall be evidenced by an instrument in writing signed by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, and a copy of such instrument shall be promptly furnished to the Company. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by U.S. federal or state authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
Appointment of Authenticating Agent
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, in the manner provided for in Section 106. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section. The Trustee shall have no liability or responsibility for the action or inaction of any Authenticating Agent (that is not the Trustee).
 
 
The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section.
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form:
Dated:
                                        
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
SECTION 701. . Every Holder of Securities or coupons, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither of the Company, or the Trustee or any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in accordance with TIA Section 312, regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under TIA Section 312(b).
Disclosure of Names and Addresses of Holders
SECTION 702. . Within 60 days after May 15 of each year commencing with the first May 15 after the first issuance of Securities pursuant to this Indenture, the Trustee shall transmit to the Holders of Securities, in the manner and to the extent provided in TIA Section 313(c), a brief report dated as of such May 15 if required by TIA Section 313(a). The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing when any series of Securities are listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
Reports by Trustee
A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange if any, upon which the Securities are listed and with the Company.
 
 
SECTION 703. . The Company shall:
Reports by Company
(1) Unless available on EDGAR, file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company, as the case may be, has filed the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company is no longer required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of such Sections, then it shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations;
(2) file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants of this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations; and
(3) transmit to all Holders, in the manner and to the extent provided in TIA Section 313(c), within 30 days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission.
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee, which if pursuant to an EDGAR filing, the Trustee is not required to confirm, is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of the filing of such a report, its timeliness or any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including compliance by the Company with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to conclusively rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
SECTION 801. . The Company may not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Company May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms
(1) The successor or transferee Person, if other than the Company formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which the Company's properties and assets are conveyed, transferred or leased as an entirety or substantially
 
as an entirety is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia and expressly assumes by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on each series of Outstanding Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed by the Company;
(2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease as an entirety or substantially as an entirety and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture complies with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
SECTION 802. . Upon any consolidation by the Company with or merger by the Company with or into any other corporation or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to any Person in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, and be subject to every obligation of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, the Company (which terms shall for this purpose mean the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture or any previous successor Person which had become such in the manner described in Section 801), except in the case of a lease, shall be discharged of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities and any coupons appertaining thereto and may be dissolved and liquidated. For purposes of the foregoing, entirety or substantially as an entirety means any conveyance, transfer, lease or sale of property or assets representing more than 75% of the Company's total assets or revenues, determined on a consolidated basis as of the date of the last audit after giving pro forma effect to the conveyance, transfer, lease or sale.
Successor Person Substituted
SECTION 901. . Without the consent of any Holders, the Company when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
(1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company contained herein and in the Securities and any related coupons in accordance with Article Eight; or
 
 
(2) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities and any related coupons (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
(3) to add any additional Events of Default for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities and any related coupons (and if such Events of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such Events of Default are being included solely for the benefit of such series); or
(4) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to provide that Bearer Securities may be registrable as to principal, to change or eliminate any restrictions on the payment of principal of or any premium or interest on Bearer Securities, to permit Bearer Securities to be issued in exchange for Registered Securities, to permit Bearer Securities to be issued in exchange for Bearer Securities of other authorized denominations or to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form, provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related coupons in any material respect; or
(5) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture; provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of any such provision; or
(6) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of Section 1006 or otherwise; or
(7) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series and any related coupons as permitted by Sections 201 and 301, including the provisions and procedures relating to Securities convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any Person (including the Company); or
(8) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 609(b); or
(9) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, provided such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series and any related coupons in any material respect; or
 
 
(10) to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Securities pursuant to Sections 401, 1402 and 1403; provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related coupons or any other series of Securities in any material respect.
SECTION 902. . With the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee and the Company when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture which affect such Securities or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of such Securities under this Indenture; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders
provided
however
(1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of (or premium, if any) or any installment of principal of or interest on any Security of such series; or the terms of any sinking fund with respect to any Security; or reduce the principal amount thereof (or premium, if any) or the rate of interest (or manner of calculating the rate of interest), if any, thereon, or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or repayment thereof at the option of the Holder, or the date(s) or period(s) for any redemption or repayment thereof, or change any obligation of the Company to pay Additional Amounts contemplated by Section 1010 (except as contemplated by Section 801(1) and permitted by Section 901(1)), or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security of such series that would be due and payable upon an acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, or upon the redemption thereof, or the amount thereof provable in bankruptcy pursuant to Section 504, or adversely affect any right of repayment at the option of any Holder of any Security of such series, or change any Place of Payment where, or the Currency in which, any Security of such series or any premium or interest thereon is payable; or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption or repayment at the option of the Holder, on or after the Redemption Date or Repayment Date, as the case may be), or modify the provisions of this Indenture with respect to the mandatory redemption of Securities or repayment of the Securities at the option of the Holder in a manner adverse to any Holder of any Securities or any coupons appertaining thereto, adversely affect any right to convert or exchange any Security as may be provided pursuant to Section 301 herein, or
(2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture or for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture which affect such series or certain defaults applicable to such series hereunder and their consequences provided for in this Indenture, or reduce the requirements of Section 1504 for quorum or voting with respect to Securities of such series, or
 
 
(3) modify any of the provisions of this Section or Section 513, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture which affect such series cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
SECTION 903. . In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall receive, and shall be fully protected in conclusively relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
SECTION 904. . Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder and of any coupon appertaining thereto shall be bound thereby.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
SECTION 905. . Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act
SECTION 906. . Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee, the Company to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company, and authenticated and delivered (which delivery, in the case of Bearer Securities, shall occur only outside the United States) by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
SECTION 907. . Promptly after the execution by the Company and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of Section 902, the Company shall give written notice thereof to the Holders of each Outstanding Security affected, in the manner provided for in Section 106, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture.
Notice of Supplemental Indentures
 
 
SECTION 1001. . The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each series of Securities and any related coupons that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities, any coupons appertaining thereto and this Indenture. Principal of, and premium, if any, on the Securities shall be considered paid on the date it is due if the Trustee holds by 11:00 a.m. New York City time on that date Currency designated for and sufficient to pay all principal and premium, if any, then due. Unless specified as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, any interest installments due on Bearer Securities on or before Maturity shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the several coupons for such interest installments as are evidenced thereby as they severally mature.
Payment of Principal, Premium, if Any, and Interest
SECTION 1002. . If Securities of a series are issuable only as Registered Securities, the Company shall maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange, where Securities of that series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable, and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. If any Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, the Company will maintain (A) in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or agency where any Registered Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where any Registered Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for exchange, where Securities of that series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable, where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and related coupons and this Indenture may be served and where Bearer Securities of that series and related coupons may be presented or surrendered for payment in the circumstances described in the following paragraph below (and not otherwise), (B) if Bearer Securities are issued, subject to any laws or regulations applicable thereto, in a Place of Payment for that series which is located outside the United States, an office or agency where Securities of that series and related coupons may be presented and surrendered for payment; provided, however, that if the Securities of that series are listed on any stock exchange located outside the United States and such stock exchange shall so require, the Company will maintain a Paying Agent for the Securities of that series in any required city located outside the United States, so long as the Securities of that series are listed on such exchange, and (C) subject to any laws or regulations applicable thereto, in a Place of Payment for that series located outside the United States, an office or agency where any Registered Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for exchange, where Securities of that series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable, and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and related coupons and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of each such office or agency. If at
Maintenance of Office or Agency
 
any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, except that Bearer Securities of that series and the related coupons may be presented and surrendered for payment only outside the United States, at the offices specified in the Security, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive such respective presentations, surrenders, notices and demands. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to a series of Securities, the Company hereby designates as a Place of Payment for each series of Securities the office or agency of the Trustee in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and initially appoints the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office as Paying Agent in such city and as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, no payment of principal, premium or interest on Bearer Securities shall be made at any office or agency of the Company in the United States or by check mailed to any address in the United States or by transfer to an account maintained with a bank located in the United States; provided, however, that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if the Securities of a series are payable in Dollars, payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on any Bearer Security shall be made at the office of the Paying Agent in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, if (but only if) payment in Dollars of the full amount of such principal, premium or interest, as the case may be, at all offices or agencies outside the United States maintained for such purpose by the Company in accordance with this Indenture is illegal or effectively precluded by exchange controls or other similar restrictions.
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all of such purposes, and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in accordance with the requirements set forth above for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301 with respect to a series of Securities, subject to the immediately preceding paragraph, the Company hereby designates as a Place of Payment for each series of Securities the office or agency of the Company, in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and initially appoints the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office as Paying Agent in such city and as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, if and so long as the Securities of any series (i) are denominated in a Foreign Currency or (ii) may be payable in a Foreign Currency, or so long as it is required under any other provision of the Indenture, then the Company will maintain with respect to each such series of Securities, or as so required, at least one Exchange Rate Agent. The Trustee shall have no liability or responsibility for the action or inaction of any Paying Agent or Exchange Rate Agent (provided neither is the Trustee).
 
 
SECTION 1003. . If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities and any related coupons, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or any premium and interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay the principal and any premium and interest on Securities of such series so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of its action or failure so to act.
Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust
Whenever there shall be one or more Paying Agents other than the Company for any series of Securities and any related coupons, it will, prior to each due date of the principal of or any premium and interest on any Securities, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum (in the Currency described in the preceding paragraph) sufficient to pay such amount so becoming due, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will (i) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (ii) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities, and upon written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent for payment in respect of the Securities.
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such sums.
Except as provided in the Securities of any series, and subject to any applicable abandoned property laws, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series, or any coupon appertaining thereto, and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium and interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security or coupon shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, shall at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in an Authorized Newspaper in each Place of Payment, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided
however
 
 
SECTION 1004. . The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, one of the signers of which shall be the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
Statement by Officers as to Default
(a) The Company shall, so long as any of Securities of any series are Outstanding, deliver to the Trustee, forthwith, but in no event later than 30 Business Days, upon any Officer becoming aware of any event which after notice or lapse of time would become a Default or Event of Default under clauses (4) or (6) of Section 501, a notice specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
SECTION 1005. . Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if its Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
Existence
SECTION 1006. . The Company agrees that it will not, nor will it permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, incur, issue, assume or guarantee any Secured Debt without in any such case effectively providing, concurrently with the creation, incurrence, issuance, assumption or guarantee of any such Secured Debt, that the Securities (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other indebtedness of or guaranteed by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary ranking equally with the Securities and then existing or thereafter created) shall be secured equally and ratably with or prior to such Secured Debt so long as such Secured Debt shall be secured. The term "Secured Debt" means notes, bonds, debentures or other similar evidences of indebtedness for money borrowed secured by any Mortgage. The term "Mortgage" or "Mortgages" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other encumbrances upon any Operating Property or on any shares of stock or Indebtedness of any Restricted Subsidiary (whether such Operating Property, shares of stock or Indebtedness are now owned or hereafter acquired). The foregoing restrictions shall not apply to:
Restrictions on Liens
(1) Mortgages on property, shares of stock or Indebtedness of any corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Restricted Subsidiary;
(2) Mortgages on property or shares of stock existing at the time of acquisition of such property or stock by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or existing as of the date of this Indenture;
 
 
(3) Mortgages to secure the payment of all or any part of the price of acquisition, construction or improvement of such property or stock by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, or to secure any Secured Debt incurred by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, prior to, at the time of, or within 360 days after the later of the acquisition or completion of construction (including any improvements on an existing property), which Secured Debt is incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof or construction of improvements thereon; , , that, in the case of any such acquisition, construction or improvement, the Mortgage shall not apply to any property theretofore owned by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, other than, in the case of any such construction or improvement, any theretofore substantially unimproved real property on which the property or improvement so constructed is located;
provided
however
(4) Mortgages securing Secured Debt of a Restricted Subsidiary owing to the Company or to another Restricted Subsidiary;
(5) Mortgages on property of a corporation existing at the time such corporation is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of a corporation or firm as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary;
(6) Mortgages on property of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in favor of the United States of America or any state thereof, or any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any state thereof, or in favor of any other country or any political subdivision thereof, or any department, agency or instrumentality of such country or political subdivision, to secure partial progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of construction of the property subject to such Mortgages;
(7) any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any Mortgage referred to in the foregoing clauses (1) through (6) and (9); provided, however, that the principal amount of Secured Debt secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Secured Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement, and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or a part of the property which secured the Mortgage so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements and construction on such property);
(8) Mortgages upon any Operating Property, or any transfer or disposition of any Operating Property, that is created or implemented as a necessary component of a bond for title transaction, payment in lieu of tax agreement or other tax incentive vehicle designed to provide the Company or any Subsidiary with certain ad valorem property tax or other incentive savings; or
 
 
(9) Mortgages to secure Hedging Obligations entered into in the ordinary course of business to purchase any raw material or other commodity or to hedge risks or reduce costs with respect to the interest rate, currency or commodity exposure of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company and not for speculative purposes.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1006, the Company and any one or more Restricted Subsidiaries may, without securing the Securities, create, incur, issue, assume or guarantee Secured Debt secured by a Mortgage which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions in an aggregate amount which, together with all other Secured Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries which (if originally created, incurred, issued, assumed or guaranteed at such time) would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions (not including Secured Debt permitted to be secured under clauses (1) through (9) above), does not at the time exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Company as shown on the financial statements of the Company as of the end of the fiscal year preceding the date of determination.
SECTION 1007. . The Company agrees that it will not, nor will it permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction unless:
Restrictions on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
(1) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled, pursuant to the provisions of Section 1006, to create, incur, issue, assume or guarantee indebtedness secured by a Mortgage upon such property at least equal in amount to the Attributable Debt in respect of such arrangement without equally and ratably securing the Securities; , , that from and after the date on which such arrangement becomes effective, the Attributable Debt in respect of such arrangement shall be deemed for all purposes under Section 1006 to be Secured Debt subject to the provisions of Section 1006; or
provided
however
(2) since the date of this Indenture and within a period commencing twelve months prior to the consummation of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction and ending twelve months after the consummation of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, the Company or Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, has expended, or will expend, for the Operating Property an amount equal to (A) the net proceeds of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, and the Company elects to designate such amount as a credit against such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, or (B) a part of the net proceeds of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction and the Company elects to designate such amount as a credit against such Sale and Leaseback Transaction and applies an amount equal to the remainder of the net proceeds as provided in clause (3) hereof; or
(3) such Sale and Leaseback Transaction does not come within the exceptions provided by clause (1) hereof and the Company does not make the election permitted by clause (2) hereof or makes such election only as a part of such net proceeds, in either of which events the Company shall apply an amount in cash equal to the Attributable Debt in respect of such arrangement (less any amount elected under clause (2) hereof) to the retirement, within 360 days of the effective date of any such arrangement, of
 
indebtedness for borrowed money of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary (other than indebtedness for borrowed money of the Company which is subordinated to the Securities) which by its terms matures at or is extendible or renewable at the sole option of the obligor without requiring the consent of the obligees to a date more than twelve months after the date of the creation of such indebtedness for borrowed money (it being understood that such retirement may be made by prepayment of such indebtedness for borrowed money, if permitted by the terms thereof, as well as by payment at maturity and that at the option of the Company and pursuant to the terms of this Indenture, such indebtedness may include the Securities).
The term "Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Operating Property, whether such Operating Property is now owned or hereafter acquired (except for temporary leases for a term, including renewals at the option of the lessee, of not more than three years and except for leases between the Company and a Restricted Subsidiary or between Restricted Subsidiaries), which property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to such Person with the intention of taking back a lease of such property.
The term "Attributable Debt" means the present value (discounted at the weighted average interest rate borne by the Securities Outstanding at the time of such Sale and Leaseback transaction compounded semiannually) of the obligation of a lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of any lease (including any period for which such lease has been extended).
SECTION 1008. . Upon request of the Trustee or as otherwise necessary, the Company will execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts or as otherwise necessary may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Indenture.
Further Instruments and Acts
SECTION 1009. . The Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods), if any, accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of such year.
Calculation of Original Issue Discount
SECTION 1010. . If any Securities of a series provide for the payment of additional amounts to any Holder who is not a United States person in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge ("Additional Amounts"), the Company will pay to the Holder of any Security of such series or any coupon appertaining thereto such Additional Amounts as may be specified as contemplated by Section 301. Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on, or in respect of, any Security of any series (or any payments pursuant to the Guarantee thereof) such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Amounts provided for in this Section to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this Section and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts in any provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
Additional Amounts
 
 
SECTION 1011. . The Company may, with respect to any series of Securities, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition which affects such series set forth in Sections 1006 and 1007, inclusive, or, as specified pursuant to Section 301(17) for Securities of such series, in any covenants of the Company added to Article Ten pursuant to Section 301(17) in connection with Securities of such series, if the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected by such term, provision or condition, by Act of such Holders, waive such compliance in such instance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee to Holders of Securities of such series in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Waiver of Certain Covenants
SECTION 1101. . Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Applicability of Article
SECTION 1102. . The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by or pursuant to a Board Resolution. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee in writing of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and, in the case of a partial redemption, shall deliver to the Trustee such documentation and records as shall enable the Trustee to select the Securities to be redeemed pursuant to Section 1103. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
SECTION 1103. . If less than all the Securities of any series with the same terms are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series with the same terms not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate, subject to applicable law, and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions of the principal of Securities of such series; provided, however, that no such partial redemption shall reduce the portion of the principal amount of a Security not redeemed to less than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of such series established pursuant to Section 301.
Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
 
 
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security which has been or is to be redeemed.
SECTION 1104. . Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided for in Section 106 not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed.
Notice of Redemption
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, all notices of redemption shall state:
(1) the Redemption Date,
(2) the Redemption Price (if known) or the formula pursuant to which the Redemption Price is to be determined if the Redemption Price cannot be determined at the time the notice is given, together with the amount of accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date,
(3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed,
(4) in case any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice which relates to such Security shall state that on and after the Redemption Date, upon surrender of such Security, the Holder will receive, without charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series of like tenor of authorized denominations for the principal amount thereof remaining unredeemed,
(5) that on the Redemption Date, the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date payable as provided in Section 1106 will become due and payable upon each such Security, or the portion thereof, to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date,
(6) the Place or Places of Payment (which in the case of Bearer Securities shall be outside the United States) where such Securities, together in the case of Bearer Securities with all coupons appertaining thereto, if any, maturing on or after the Redemption Date, are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any,
(7) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case,
(8) that, unless otherwise specified in such notice, Bearer Securities of any series, if any, surrendered for redemption must be accompanied by all coupons maturing subsequent to the Redemption Date or the amount of any such missing coupon or coupons will be deducted from the Redemption Price unless security or indemnity satisfactory to the Company, the Trustee and any Paying Agent is furnished,
 
 
(9) if Bearer Securities of any series are to be redeemed and any Registered Securities of such series are not to be redeemed, and if such Bearer Securities may be exchanged for Registered Securities not subject to redemption on such Redemption Date pursuant to Section 305 or otherwise, the last date, as determined by the Company, on which such exchanges may be made,
(10) the CUSIP, ISIN or other similar numbers, if any, assigned to such Securities; provided, however, that such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of CUSIP, ISIN or other similar numbers, in which case none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall have any liability in respect of the use of any CUSIP, ISIN or other similar number or numbers on such notices, and the redemption of such Securities shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers,
(11) the Euroclear or the Clearstream reference numbers of such Security, if any, and
(12) such other matters as the Company shall deem desirable or appropriate.
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's written request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company.
SECTION 1105. . On or prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, which it may not do in the case of a sinking fund payment under Article Twelve, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest, if any, on, all the Securities or portions thereof which are to be redeemed on that date.
Deposit of Redemption Price
SECTION 1106. . Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) (together with accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date), and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any) such Securities shall, if the same were interest-bearing, cease to bear interest and the coupons for such interest appertaining to any Bearer Securities so to be redeemed, except to the extent provided below, shall be void. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, together with all coupons, if any, appertaining thereto maturing after the Redemption Date, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date; provided, however, that
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
 
installments of interest on Bearer Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of coupons for such interest; and provided further that installments of interest on Registered Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
If any Bearer Security surrendered for redemption shall not be accompanied by all appurtenant coupons maturing after the Redemption Date, such Security may be paid after deducting from the Redemption Price an amount equal to the face amount of all such missing coupons, or the surrender of such missing coupon or coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee if there be furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to the Trustee or any Paying Agent any such missing coupon in respect of which a deduction shall have been made from the Redemption Price, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount so deducted; provided, however, that interest represented by coupons shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of those coupons.
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) set forth in or contemplated by such Security.
SECTION 1107. . Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part (pursuant to the provisions of this Article or of Article Twelve) shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
Securities Redeemed in Part
SECTION 1108. . Each series of Securities may be redeemed at the option of the Company (or their successors) in whole but not in part at any time (except in the case of Securities that have a variable rate of interest, which may be redeemed on any Interest Payment Date) at a Redemption Price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption (except in the case of Outstanding Original Issue Discount Securities which may be redeemed at the Redemption Price specified by the terms of such series of Securities) if (i) the Company is or would be required to pay Additional Amounts as a result of any change in or amendment to the laws or any regulations or rulings promulgated thereunder of the United States (or in the case of a successor
Optional Redemption Due to Changes in Tax Treatment
 
Person to the Company, of the jurisdiction in which such successor Person is organized or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein) or (ii) any change in the official application or interpretation of such laws, regulations or rulings, or any change in the official application or interpretation of, or any execution of or amendment to, any treaty or treaties affecting taxation to which the United States (or such other jurisdiction or political subdivision or taxing authority) is a party, which change, execution or amendment becomes effective on or after the date of issuance of such series pursuant to Section 301(23) (or in the case of a successor Person to the Company, the date on which such successor Person became such). Prior to the giving of notice of redemption of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate, stating that the Company is entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth in reasonable detail a statement of circumstances showing that the conditions precedent to the right of the Company to redeem such Securities pursuant to this Section have been satisfied.
SECTION 1201. . Retirements of Securities of any series pursuant to any sinking fund shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Applicability of Article
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any mandatory sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
SECTION 1202. . Subject to Section 1203, in lieu of making all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to any Securities of a series in cash, the Company may at its option (1) deliver to the Trustee Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) theretofore purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company, together, in the case of any Bearer Securities of such series, with all unmatured coupons appertaining thereto, and/or (2) receive credit for the principal amount of Securities of such series which have been previously delivered to the Trustee by the Company or for Securities of such series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of the same series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; provided, however, that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such mandatory sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
 
 
SECTION 1203. . Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering or crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 1202 (which Securities will, if not previously delivered, accompany such certificate) and whether the Company intends to exercise its right to make a permitted optional sinking fund payment with respect to such series. Such certificate shall be irrevocable and upon its delivery the Company shall be obligated to make the cash payment or payments therein referred to, if any, on or before the next succeeding sinking fund payment date. In the case of the failure of the Company to deliver such certificate, the sinking fund payment due on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date for that series shall be paid entirely in cash and shall be sufficient to redeem the principal amount of such Securities subject to a mandatory sinking fund payment without the option to deliver or credit Securities as provided in Section 1202 and without the right to make any optional sinking fund payment, if any, with respect to such series.
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
Not more than 60 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 1106 and 1107.
Prior to any sinking fund payment date, the Company shall pay to the Trustee or a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) in cash a sum equal to the principal (and premium, if any) and any interest that will accrue to the date fixed for redemption of Securities or portions thereof to be redeemed on such sinking fund payment date pursuant to this Section 1203.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a sinking fund for any series of Securities, if at any time the amount of cash to be paid into such sinking fund on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date, together with any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payment or payments for such series, does not exceed in the aggregate $100,000, the Trustee, unless requested by the Company, shall not give the next succeeding notice of the redemption of Securities of such series through the operation of the sinking fund. Any such unused balance of moneys deposited in such sinking fund shall be added to the sinking fund payment for such series to be made in cash on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date or, at the request of the Company, shall be applied at any time or from time to time to the purchase of Securities of such series, by public or private purchase, in the open market or otherwise, at a purchase price for such Securities (excluding accrued interest and brokerage commissions, for which the Trustee or any Paying Agent will be reimbursed by the Company) not in excess of the principal amount thereof.
 
 
SECTION 1301. . Repayment of Securities of any series before their Stated Maturity at the option of Holders thereof shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Applicability of Article
SECTION 1302. . Securities of any series subject to repayment in whole or in part at the option of the Holders thereof will, unless otherwise provided in the terms of such Securities, be repaid at the Repayment Price thereof, together with interest, if any, thereon accrued to the Repayment Date specified in or pursuant to the terms of such Securities. The Company covenants that on or before the Repayment Date it will deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay the Repayment Price of, and (except if the Repayment Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest, if any, on, all the Securities or portions thereof, as the case may be, to be repaid on such date.
Repayment of Securities
SECTION 1303. . Securities of any series subject to repayment at the option of the Holders thereof will contain an "Option to Elect Repayment" form on the reverse of such Securities. To be repaid at the option of the Holder, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of such series, any Security so providing for such repayment, with the "Option to Elect Repayment" form on the reverse of such Security duly completed by the Holder (or by the Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), must be received by the Company at the Place of Payment therefor specified in the terms of such Security (or at such other place or places of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holders of such Securities) not earlier than 45 days nor later than 30 days prior to the Repayment Date. If less than the entire Repayment Price of such Security is to be repaid in accordance with the terms of such Security, the portion of the Repayment Price of such Security to be repaid, in increments of the minimum denomination for Securities of such series, and the denomination or denominations of the Security or Securities to be issued to the Holder for the portion of such Security surrendered that is not to be repaid, must be specified. Any Security providing for repayment at the option of the Holder thereof may not be repaid in part if, following such repayment, the unpaid principal amount of such Security would be less than the minimum authorized denomination of Securities of the series of which such Security to be repaid is a part. Except as otherwise may be provided by the terms of any Security providing for repayment at the option of the Holder thereof, exercise of the repayment option by the Holder shall be irrevocable unless waived by the Company.
Exercise of Option
 
 
SECTION 1304. . If Securities of any series providing for repayment at the option of the Holders thereof shall have been surrendered as provided in this Article and as provided by or pursuant to the terms of such Securities, such Securities or the portions thereof, as the case may be, to be repaid shall become due and payable and shall be paid by the Company on the Repayment Date therein specified, and on and after such Repayment Date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of such Securities on such Repayment Date) such Securities shall, if the same were interest-bearing, cease to bear interest and the coupons for such interest appertaining to any Bearer Securities so to be repaid, except to the extent provided below, shall be void. Upon surrender of any such Security for repayment in accordance with such provisions, together with all coupons, if any, appertaining thereto maturing after the Repayment Date, the Repayment Price of such Security so to be repaid shall be paid by the Company, together with accrued interest, if any, to the Repayment Date; provided, however, that coupons whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Repayment Date shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of such coupons; and provided further that, in the case of Registered Securities, installments of interest, if any, whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Repayment Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
When Securities Presented for Repayment Become Due and Payable
If any Bearer Security surrendered for repayment shall not be accompanied by all appurtenant coupons maturing after the Repayment Date, such Security may be paid after deducting from the amount payable therefor as provided in Section 1302 an amount equal to the face amount of all such missing coupons, or the surrender of such missing coupon or coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee if there be furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to the Trustee or any Paying Agent any such missing coupon in respect of which a deduction shall have been made as provided in the preceding sentence, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount so deducted; , , that interest represented by coupons shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of those coupons.
provided
however
If the principal amount of any Security surrendered for repayment shall not be so repaid upon surrender thereof, such principal amount (together with interest, if any, thereon accrued to such Repayment Date) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Repayment Date at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) set forth in or contemplated by such Security.
SECTION 1305. . Upon surrender of any Security which is to be repaid in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge and at the expense of the Company, a new Security or Securities of the same series, and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination specified by the Holder, in an aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the portion of the principal of such Security so surrendered which is not to be repaid.
Securities Repaid in Part
 
 
SECTION 1401. . Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, the provisions of this Article Fourteen shall apply to each series of Securities, and the Company may, at its option, effect defeasance of the Securities of or within a series under Section 1402, or covenant defeasance of or within a series under Section 1403 in accordance with the terms of such Securities and in accordance with this Article.
Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
SECTION 1402. . Upon the Company's exercise of the above option applicable to this Section with respect to any Securities of or within a series, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons on the date the conditions set forth in Section 1404 are satisfied (hereinafter, "defeasance"). For this purpose, such defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "Outstanding" only for the purposes of Section 1405 and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in (A) and (B) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and any related coupons and this Indenture insofar as such Securities and any related coupons are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (A) the rights of Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 1404 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Securities and any related coupons when such payments are due, (B) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 304, 305, 306, 1002 and 1003 and with respect to the payment of Additional Amounts, if any, on such Securities as contemplated by Section 1010 and such obligations as shall be ancillary thereto, (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder including, without limitation, Section 606 and the penultimate paragraph of Section 1405 and (D) this Article Fourteen. Subject to compliance with this Article Fourteen, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 1402 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 1403 with respect to such Securities and any related coupons.
Defeasance and Discharge
SECTION 1403. . Upon the Company's exercise of the above option applicable to this Section with respect to any Securities of or within a series, the Company shall be released from its obligations under Sections 801 and 802 and Sections 1006 and 1007, and, if specified pursuant to Section 301, its obligations under any other covenant, with respect to such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1404 are satisfied (hereinafter, "covenant defeasance"), and such Securities and any related coupons shall thereafter be deemed not to be "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or Act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "Outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder. For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons, the Company
Covenant Defeasance
 
may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 501(4) or Section 501(8) or otherwise, as the case may be, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities and any related coupons shall be unaffected thereby.
SECTION 1404. . The following shall be the conditions to application of either Section 1402 or Section 1403 to any Outstanding Securities of or within a series and any related coupons:
Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
(1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 607 who shall agree to comply with the provisions of this Article Fourteen applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such Securities and any related coupons, (A) an amount (in such Currency in which such Securities and any related coupons are then specified as payable at Stated Maturity), or (B) Government Obligations applicable to such Securities (determined on the basis of the Currency in which such Securities are then specified as payable at Stated Maturity) which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment of principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, under such Securities and any related coupons, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, (i) the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons on the Stated Maturity (or Redemption Date, if applicable) of such principal (and premium, if any) or installment of interest, if any, and (ii) any mandatory sinking fund payments or analogous payments applicable to such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons on the day on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and of such Securities and any related coupons; that the Trustee shall have been irrevocably instructed to apply such money or the proceeds of such Government Obligations to said payments with respect to such Securities and any related coupons. Before such a deposit, the Company may give to the Trustee, in accordance with Section 1102, a notice of its election to redeem all or any portion of such Outstanding Securities at a future date in accordance with the terms of the Securities of such series and Article Eleven, which notice shall be irrevocable. Such irrevocable redemption notice, if given, shall be given effect in applying the foregoing.
provided
(2) No Default or Event of Default with respect to such Securities or any related coupons shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or, insofar as paragraphs (6) and (7) of Section 501 are concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period).
 
 
(3) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any material agreement or instrument (other than this Indenture) to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound.
(4) In the case of an election under Section 1402, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (x) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or (y) since the date of execution of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and such defeasance and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if the deposit and such defeasance had not occurred.
(5) In the case of an election under Section 1403, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if the deposit and such covenant defeasance had not occurred.
(6) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section, such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional or substitute terms, conditions or limitations in connection therewith pursuant to Section 301.
(7) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to either the defeasance under Section 1402 or the covenant defeasance under Section 1403 (as the case may be) have been complied with.
SECTION 1405. . Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and Government Obligations (or other property as may be provided pursuant to Section 301) (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 1405, the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 1404 in respect of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and any related coupons and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities and any related coupons of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Deposited Money and Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions
 
 
Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Security pursuant to Section 301, if, after a deposit referred to in Section 1404(1) has been made, (a) the Holder of a Security in respect of which such deposit was made is entitled to, and does, elect pursuant to Section 312(b) or the terms of such Security to receive payment in a Currency other than that in which the deposit pursuant to Section 1404(1) has been made in respect of such Security, or (b) a Conversion Event occurs as contemplated in Section 312(d) or 312(e) or by the terms of any Security in respect of which the deposit pursuant to Section 1404(1) has been made, the indebtedness represented by such Security and any related coupons shall be deemed to have been, and will be, fully discharged and satisfied through the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Security as they become due out of the proceeds yielded by converting (from time to time as specified below in the case of any such election) the amount or other property deposited in respect of such Security into the Currency in which such Security becomes payable as a result of such election or Conversion Event based on the applicable Market Exchange Rate for such Currency in effect on the third Business Day prior to each payment date, except, with respect to a Conversion Event, for such Currency in effect (as nearly as feasible) at the time of the Conversion Event.
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 1404 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the foregoing sentence shall survive the termination of this Indenture and the earlier resignation or removal of the Trustee.
Anything in this Article Fourteen to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or Government Obligations (or other property and any proceeds therefrom) held by it as provided in Section 1404 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect a defeasance or covenant defeasance, as applicable, in accordance with this Article.
SECTION 1406. . If the Trustee or any Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 1405 with respect to any Securities by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and such Securities and any related coupons shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 1402 or 1403, as the case may be, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 1405; provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any such Security or any related coupon following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities and any related coupons to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Reinstatement
 
 
SECTION 1501. . If Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to this Article to make, give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series.
Purposes for Which Meetings May Be Called
SECTION 1502. . The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series for any purpose specified in Section 1501, to be held at such time and at such place in The City of New York or in London as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be given, in the manner provided for in Section 106, not less than 21 nor more than 180 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.
Call, Notice and Place of Meetings
(a) In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a Board Resolution, or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of the Holders of Securities of such series for any purpose specified in Section 1501, by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have made the first publication of the notice of such meeting within 21 days after receipt of such request or shall not thereafter proceed to cause the meeting to be held as provided herein, then the Company or the Holders of Securities of such series in the amount above specified, as the case may be, may determine the time and the place in The City of New York or in London for such meeting and may call such meeting for such purposes by giving notice thereof as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
SECTION 1503. . To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, a Person shall be (1) a Holder of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series, or (2) a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy for a Holder or Holders of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series by such Holder of Holders. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be the Person entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel, any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel.
Persons Entitled to Vote at Meetings
SECTION 1504. . The Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series; provided, however, that, if any action is to be taken at such meeting with respect to a consent or waiver which this Indenture expressly provides may be given by the Holders of not less than a specified percentage in principal amount of the
Quorum; Action
 
Outstanding Securities of a series, the Persons entitled to vote such specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum within 30 minutes of the time appointed for any such meeting, the meeting shall, if convened at the request of Holders of Securities of such series, be dissolved. In any other case the meeting may be adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such adjourned meeting, such adjourned meeting may be further adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such adjourned meeting. Notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall be given as provided in Section 1502(a), except that such notice need be given only once not less than five days prior to the date on which the meeting is scheduled to be reconvened. Notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall state expressly the percentage, as provided above, of the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series which shall constitute a quorum.
Except as limited by the proviso to Section 902, any resolution presented to a meeting or adjourned meeting duly reconvened at which a quorum is present as aforesaid may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series; , , that, except as limited by the proviso to Section 902, any resolution with respect to any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action which this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage, which is less than a majority, in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series may be adopted at a meeting or an adjourned meeting duly reconvened and at which a quorum is present as aforesaid by the affirmative vote of the Holders of not less than such specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series.
provided
however
Any resolution passed or decision taken at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly held in accordance with this Section shall be binding on all the Holders of Securities of such series and the related coupons, whether or not present or represented at the meeting.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1504, if any action is to be taken at a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series with respect to any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action that this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected thereby, or of the Holders of such series and one or more additional series:
(i) there shall be no minimum quorum requirement for such meeting; and
(ii) the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series that vote in favor of such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action shall be taken into account in determining whether such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action has been made, given or taken under this Indenture.
 
 
SECTION 1505. . Notwithstanding any provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Holders of Securities of a series in regard to proof of the holding of Securities of such series and of the appointment of proxies and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as its shall deem appropriate. Except as otherwise permitted or required by any such regulations, the holding of Securities shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 104 and the appointment of any proxy shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 104 or by having the signature of the person executing the proxy witnessed or guaranteed by any trust company, bank or banker authorized by Section 104 to certify to the holding of Bearer Securities. Such regulations may provide that written instruments appointing proxies, regular on their face, may be presumed valid and genuine without the proof specified in Section 104 or other proof.
Determination of Voting Rights; Conduct and Adjournment of Meetings
(a) The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Holders of Securities as provided in Section 1502(b), in which case the Company or the Holders of Securities of the series calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chairman. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by vote of the Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting.
(b) At any meeting each Holder of a Security of such series or proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by him (determined as specified in the definition of "Outstanding" in Section 101); , , that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not Outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote, except as a Holder of a Security of such series or proxy.
provided
however
(c) Any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly called pursuant to Section 1502 at which a quorum is present may be adjourned from time to time by Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting; and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
SECTION 1506. . The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Holders of Securities of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the principal amounts and serial numbers of the Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record, at least in duplicate, of the proceedings of each meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be prepared by the Secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to said record the original
Counting Votes and Recording Action of Meetings
 
reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was given as provided in Section 1502 and, if applicable, Section 1504. Each copy shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one such copy shall be delivered to the Company, and another to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee, the latter to have attached thereto the ballots voted at the meeting. Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated. The provisions of articles 86 to 94.8 of the Luxembourg law of August 10, 1915 on commercial companies, as amended, are hereby excluded.
This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same Indenture.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This is to certify that as of the date hereof, and except as set forth below, the above-captioned Securities held by you for our account (i) are owned by person(s) that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations, any estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source or any trust if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust ("United States person(s)"), (ii) are owned by United States person(s) that are (a) foreign branches of United States financial institutions (financial institutions, as defined in United States Treasury Regulations Section 1.165-12(c)(1)(v) are herein referred to as "financial institutions") purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (b) United States person(s) who acquired the Securities through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Securities through such United States financial institutions on the date hereof (and in either case (a) or (b), each such United States financial institution hereby agrees, on its own behalf or through its agent, that you may advise International CCE Inc. or its agent that such financial institution will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (iii) are owned by United States or foreign financial institution(s) for purposes of resale during the restricted period (as defined in United States Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)), and, in addition, if the owner is a United States or foreign financial institution described in clause (iii) above (whether or not also described in clause (i) or (ii)), this is to further certify that such financial institution has not acquired the Securities for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States person or to a person within the United States or its possessions.
As used herein, "United States" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia); and its "possessions" include Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands.
We undertake to advise you promptly by tested telex on or prior to the date on which you intend to submit your certification relating to the above-captioned Securities held by you for our account in accordance with your Operating Procedures if any applicable statement herein is not correct on such date, and in the absence of any such notification it may be assumed that this certification applies as of such date.
 
 
This certificate excepts and does not relate to [U.S.$] of such interest in the above-captioned Securities in respect of which we are not able to certify and as to which we understand an exchange for an interest in a permanent global Security or an exchange for and delivery of definitive Securities (or, if relevant, collection of any interest) cannot be made until we do so certify.
                    
We understand that this certificate may be required in connection with certain tax legislation in the United States. If administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate or a copy thereof to any interested party in such proceedings.
 
 
 
 
This is to certify that based solely on written certifications that we have received in writing, by tested telex or by electronic transmission from each of the persons appearing in our records as persons entitled to a portion of the principal amount set forth below (our "Member Organizations") substantially in the form attached hereto, as of the date hereof, [U.S.$] principal amount of the above-captioned Securities (i) is owned by person(s) that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations or any estate the income of which is subject to United States Federal income taxation regardless of its source or any trust if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust ("United States person(s)"), (ii) is owned by United States person(s) that are (a) foreign branches of United States financial institutions (financial institutions, as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.165-12(c)(1)(v) are herein referred to as "financial institutions") purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (b) United States person(s) who acquired the Securities through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Securities through such United States financial institutions on the date hereof (and in either case (a) or (b), each such financial institution has agreed, on its own behalf or through its agent, that we may advise International CCE Inc. or its agent that such financial institution will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (iii) is owned by United States or foreign financial institution(s) for purposes of resale during the restricted period (as defined in United States Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)) and, to the further effect, that financial institutions described in clause (iii) above (whether or not also described in clause (i) or (ii)) have certified that they have not acquired the Securities for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States person or to a person within the United States or its possessions.
                
As used herein, "United States" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia); and its "possessions" include Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands.
 
 
We further certify that (i) we are not making available herewith for exchange (or, if relevant, collection of any interest) any portion of the temporary global Security representing the above-captioned Securities excepted in the above-referenced certificates of Member Organizations and (ii) as of the date hereof we have not received any notification from any of our Member Organizations to the effect that the statements made by such Member Organizations with respect to any portion of the part submitted herewith for exchange (or, if relevant, collection of any interest) are no longer true and cannot be relied upon as of the date hereof.
We understand that this certification is required in connection with certain tax legislation in the United States. If administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate or a copy thereof to any interested party in such proceedings.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Audited Combined Financial Statements
Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007
 
 
 
The Board of Directors and Shareowners of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.
We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheets of the European operations of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. and Coca-Cola Enterprises (Canada) Bottling Finance Co. (herein after defined as "International CCE Inc.") as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related combined statements of operations, cash flows and equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the combined financial position of International CCE Inc. at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the combined results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
In 2008, the Company adopted the measurement date provisions originally issued in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans," (codified in FASB Accounting Standards Codification 715, Compensation-Retirement Benefits).
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
May 25, 2010, except for Note 15, as to which the date is November 3, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1
BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Organization
On February 25, 2010, Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ("CCE") entered into agreements with The Coca-Cola Company ("TCCC") under which:
 
 
 
 
The consummation of the transaction is subject to various conditions, including, among others, obtaining the approval of 66 2/3 percent of CCE's shareowners, a majority vote of CCE's shareowners other than TCCC and its affiliates, subsidiaries, or any of CCE's or TCCC's directors and executive officers, the absence of legal prohibitions and the receipt of requisite regulatory approvals, the absence of pending actions by any governmental entity that would prevent the consummation of the transaction, the receipt and continuing validity of a private letter ruling requested of the United States (U.S.) Internal Revenue Service by CCE that is satisfactory to CCE and TCCC, the consummation of the Norway-Sweden Acquisition substantially concurrently with the consummation of the transaction and there being no material adverse effect (as defined in the Merger Agreement) on CCE's North American business. The consummation of the Norway-Sweden Acquisition is subject to various conditions, including the receipt of requisite regulatory approvals and the concurrent consummation of the Merger. The agreement also includes customary covenants, as well as a non-compete covenant with respect to New CCE and the right of New CCE to acquire TCCC's interest in TCCC's German bottling operations for fair value between 18 and 36 months after the date of the Merger Agreement, on terms to be agreed.
 
 
Under the Merger Agreement, New CCE has agreed to indemnify TCCC for liabilities, including but not limited to, those resulting from the breach of representations, warranties, or covenants, of CCE or New CCE set forth in the Merger Agreement prior to the effective time of the Merger. In accordance with the Merger Agreement, if losses relating to breaches of CCE's representations and warranties exceed $200 million, then New CCE must pay up to $250 million of losses in excess of the $200 million (other than breaches of certain fundamental representations or warranties, in respect of which New CCE is liable for all losses, and losses relating to tax matters, which are governed by the Tax Sharing Agreement). If New CCE cannot pay the amount it is required to pay to indemnify TCCC, TCCC can pursue claims against New CCE as an unsecured general creditor of New CCE. New CCE may also have to pay special damages of up to $200 million under certain circumstances. If CCE or New CCE intentionally and recklessly disregards its obligations under the Merger Agreement or fails to cure any breach of a covenant, then TCCC may seek special damages which are not capped against CCE or New CCE which could include exemplary, punitive, consequential incidental, indirect or special damages or lost profits. In addition, under the tax sharing agreement among CCE, New CCE and TCCC, New CCE will indemnify TCCC and its affiliates from and against certain taxes the responsibility for which the parties have specifically agreed to allocate to New CCE, as well as any taxes and losses by reason of or arising from certain breaches by New CCE of representations, covenants, or obligations under the Merger Agreement or the tax sharing agreement and, in certain situations, New CCE will pay to TCCC (i) an amount equal to a portion of the transfer taxes incurred in connection with the separation; (ii) an amount equal to any detriment to TCCC caused by certain actions (or failures to act) by New CCE in connection with the conduct of its business or outside the ordinary course of business or that are otherwise inconsistent with past practice; (iii) the difference (if any) between the amount of certain tax benefits intended to be available to CCE following the separation and the amount of such benefits actually available to CCE as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
The agreement contains specified termination rights for both CCE and TCCC, including that upon termination under specified circumstances, CCE would be required to pay TCCC a termination fee of $200 million, and TCCC would be required to pay CCE an amount equal to twice the amount of CCE's actual out of pocket expenses related to the transaction not to exceed $100 million. During the first quarter of 2010, CCE incurred expenses totaling $17 million related to the transaction and expects to incur total expenses of approximately $100 million.
CCE has been named in a number of lawsuits relating to the transaction. For additional information about these lawsuits, refer to Note 8.
New CCE intends to finance the Norway-Sweden Acquisition and the Cash Consideration in the Merger using a combination of existing cash, payments received from TCCC at the effective time of the Merger, and debt financing obtained in either the public or private markets. New CCE will also seek a committed credit facility with a line of credit to provide for New CCE's working capital needs and for general corporate purposes after the Merger. After the separation, New CCE will no longer benefit from any financing arrangements with, or cash advances from, CCE.
In connection with the closing of the transaction, the Company expects to (1) sign license agreements with TCCC for each New CCE territory with a term of 10 years and containing a 10-year renewal at the Company's option (subject to certain conditions), and (2) sign a 5-year agreement with TCCC to implement an incidence-based concentrate pricing model across its territories. This concentrate pricing model will help ensure that system interests are aligned among all packages and channels.
Business
The Company is a marketer, producer, and distributor of nonalcoholic beverages. The Company markets, produces, and distributes its products to customers and consumers through licensed territory agreements in Belgium, continental France, Great Britain, Luxembourg, Monaco, and the Netherlands. The Company operates in the highly competitive beverage industry and faces strong competition from other general and specialty beverage companies. The Company's financial results, like those of other beverage companies, are affected by a
 
number of factors including, but not limited to, cost to manufacture and distribute products, general economic conditions, consumer preferences, local and national laws and regulations, availability of raw materials, fuel prices, and weather patterns.
Sales of the Company's products tend to be seasonal, with the second and third quarters accounting for higher unit sales of the Company's products than the first and fourth quarters. In a typical year, the Company earns more than 60 percent of its annual operating income during the second and third quarters of the year.
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying Combined Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles on a "carve-out" basis from CCE's Consolidated Financial Statements using the historical results of operations, assets, and liabilities attributable to the legal entities that will comprise New CCE as of the effective time of the Merger. These legal entities include all that were previously part of CCE's European operations, as well as Coca-Cola Enterprises (Canada) Bottling Finance Company. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions between the legal entities that comprise New CCE have been eliminated. The Company has evaluated certain events and transactions occurring after December 31, 2009 and through May 25, 2010.
The Combined Financial Statements also include an allocation of certain corporate expenses related to services provided to the Company by CCE. These expenses include the cost of executive oversight, information technology, legal, treasury, risk management, human resources, accounting and reporting, investor relations, public relations, internal audit, and certain global restructuring projects. The cost of these services has been allocated to the Company based on specific identification when possible or, when the expenses were determined to be global in nature, based on the percentage of the Company's relative sales volume to total CCE sales volume for the periods presented. Management believes these allocations are a reasonable representation of the cost incurred for the services provided; however, these allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred by the Company had it been operating as an independent company for the periods presented (refer to Note 3).
Total interest expense represents interest incurred on the Company's third-party debt, as well as amounts due to CCE. No interest expense incurred by CCE has been allocated to the Company as CCE's third party debt is not specifically related to the Company's operations.
Total equity represents CCE's interest in the recorded net assets of the Company, as well as other comprehensive income or loss attributable to the Company. The CCE net investment balance represents the cumulative net investment by CCE in the Company, including any prior net income and certain transactions between the Company and CCE, such as allocated expenses.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the Combined Financial Statements and accompanying notes requires estimates and assumptions by management that affect reported amounts. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes net operating revenues when all of the following conditions are met: (1) evidence of a binding arrangement exists (generally, purchase orders); (2) products have been delivered and there is no future performance required; and (3) amounts are collectible under normal payment terms. For product sales, these conditions typically occur when the products are delivered to or picked up by the Company's customers and, in the case of full-service vending, when cash is collected from vending machines. Revenue is stated net of sales discounts and marketing and promotional incentives paid to customers.
 
 
Customer Marketing Programs and Sales Incentives
The Company participates in various programs and arrangements with customers designed to increase the sale of its products by these customers. Among the programs are arrangements under which allowances can be earned by customers for attaining agreed-upon sales levels or for participating in specific marketing programs. Coupon programs are also developed on a customer and territory specific basis with the intent of increasing sales by all customers. The Company believes its participation in these programs is essential to ensuring volume and revenue growth in a competitive marketplace. The costs of all these various programs, included as a reduction in net operating revenues, totaled $0.8 billion, $1.2 billion, and $1.1 billion in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The reduction in the cost of these programs during 2009 was principally due to a law change in France that resulted in the cost of these programs being provided as an on-invoice reduction.
Under customer programs and arrangements that require sales incentives to be paid in advance, the Company amortizes the amount paid over the period of benefit or contractual sales volume. When incentives are paid in arrears, the Company accrues the estimated amount to be paid based on the program's contractual terms, expected customer performance, and/or estimated sales volume.
Licensor Support Arrangements
The Company participates in various funding programs supported by TCCC or other licensors whereby the Company receives funds from the licensors to support customer marketing programs or other arrangements that promote the sale of the licensors' products. Under these programs, certain costs incurred by the Company are reimbursed by the applicable licensor. Payments from TCCC and other licensors for marketing programs and other similar arrangements to promote the sale of products are classified as a reduction in cost of sales, unless the Company can overcome the presumption that the payment is a reduction in the price of the licensor's products. Payments for marketing programs are recognized as product is sold.
For additional information about the Company's transactions with TCCC, refer to Note 3.
Shipping and Handling Costs
Shipping and handling costs related to the movement of finished goods from manufacturing locations to sales distribution centers are included in cost of sales. Shipping and handling costs incurred to move finished goods from sales distribution centers to customer locations are included in selling, delivery, and administrative (SD&A) expenses and totaled approximately $247 million, $272 million, and $247 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Customers do not pay the Company separately for shipping and handling costs.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include all highly liquid investments with maturity dates of less than three months when purchased.
Trade Accounts Receivable
The Company sells its products to retailers, wholesalers, and other customers and extends credit, generally without requiring collateral, based on the Company's evaluation of the customer's financial condition. While the Company has a concentration of credit risk in the retail sector, the Company believes this risk is mitigated due to the diverse nature of the customers it serves, including, but not limited to, their type, geographic location, size, and beverage channel. Potential losses on receivables are dependent on each individual customer's financial condition and sales adjustments granted after the balance sheet date. The Company carries its trade accounts receivable at net realizable value. Typically, accounts receivable are collected on average within 60 to 70 days and do not bear interest. The Company monitors its exposure to losses on receivables and maintains allowances
 
for potential losses or adjustments. The Company determines these allowances by (1) evaluating the aging of receivables; (2) analyzing historical sales adjustments; and (3) reviewing high-risk customers. Past due receivable balances are written-off when efforts have been unsuccessful in collecting the amount due. The Company also carries credit insurance on a portion of its accounts receivable balance.
The following table summarizes the change in the Company's allowance for losses on trade accounts receivable for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 (in millions):
 
Inventories
The Company values its inventories at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The following table summarizes the Company's inventories as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions):
 
Property, Plant, and Equipment
Property, plant, and equipment are recorded at cost. Major property additions, replacements, and betterments are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs that do not extend the useful life of an asset or add new functionality are expensed as incurred. Depreciation is recorded using the straight-line method over the respective estimated useful lives of the Company's assets. Cold drink equipment and containers, such as reusable crates, shells, and bottles, are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of each group of equipment, as determined using the group-life method. Under this method, the Company does not recognize gains or losses on the disposal of individual units of equipment when the disposal occurs in the normal course of business. The Company capitalizes the costs of refurbishing cold drink equipment and depreciates those costs over the estimated period until the next scheduled refurbishment or until the equipment is retired. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful life of the improvement. The following table summarizes the classification of depreciation and amortization expense on the Company's Combined Statements of Operations during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007:
 
The Company's interest in assets acquired under capital leases are included in property, plant, and equipment and primarily relate to buildings and fleet assets. Amortization of capital lease assets is included in depreciation expense. The net present value of amounts due under capital leases, including residual value guarantees, are recorded as liabilities and are included in total debt. Refer to Note 6.
 
 
The Company assesses the recoverability of the carrying amount of property, plant, and equipment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. If the Company determines that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group is not recoverable based upon the expected undiscounted future cash flows of the asset or asset group, the Company records an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying amount over the estimated fair value of the asset or asset group.
The Company capitalizes certain development costs associated with internal use software, including external direct costs of materials and services and payroll costs for employees devoting time to a software project. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage, as well as costs for maintenance and training, are expensed as incurred.
The following table summarizes the Company's property, plant, and equipment as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions):
 
Income Taxes
The Company computes and reports income taxes on a separate return basis and recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of its assets and liabilities. The Company establishes valuation allowances if the Company believes that it is more likely than not that some or all of its deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company does not recognize a tax benefit unless the Company concludes that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on audit by the taxing authority based solely on the technical merits of the associated tax position. If the recognition threshold is met, the Company recognizes a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of the tax benefit that, in the Company's judgment, is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized. The Company records interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions in interest expense, net and other nonoperating income (expense), net, respectively. Refer to Note 10.
The Company records the majority of taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities on a net basis (i.e. excluded from net operating revenues). Certain excise and packaging taxes, which totaled approximately $185 million during 2009, 2008, and 2007, were recorded on a gross basis (i.e. included in net operating revenues).
Currency Translation
The assets and liabilities of the Company's operations are translated from local currencies into the Company's reporting currency, U.S. dollars, at currency exchange rates in effect at the end of a reporting period.
 
Gains and losses from the translation of the Company's entities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI). Refer to Note 12. Revenues and expenses are translated at average monthly currency exchange rates. Transaction gains and losses arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in a currency other than the local functional currency are included in other nonoperating income (expense), net.
Fair Values Measurements
The fair values of the Company's cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximate their carrying amounts due to their short-term nature. The fair values of the Company's debt instruments are calculated based on debt with similar maturities and credit quality and current market interest rates (refer to Note 6). The estimated fair values of the Company's derivative instruments are calculated based on market rates to settle the instruments (refer to Note 5). These values represent the estimated amounts the Company would receive upon sale or pay upon transfer, taking into consideration current market rates and creditworthiness.
The following tables summarize the Company's non-pension financial assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis (at least annually) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions):
 
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
The Company utilizes derivative financial instruments to mitigate its exposure to certain market risks associated with ongoing operations. The primary risks that the Company seeks to manage through the use of derivative financial instruments include interest rate risk, currency exchange risk, and commodity price risk. All derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value on the Combined Balance Sheets. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. While certain of the Company's derivative instruments are designated as hedging instruments, the Company also enters into derivative
 
instruments that are designed to hedge a risk, but are not designated as hedging instruments (referred to as an "economic hedge" or "non-designated hedges"). Changes in the fair value of these non-designated hedging instruments are recognized in the expense line item that is consistent with the nature of the hedged risk. The Company is exposed to counterparty credit risk on all of its derivative financial instruments. The Company has established and maintains strict counterparty credit guidelines and enters into hedges only with financial institutions that are investment grade or better. The Company continuously monitors counterparty credit risk, and utilizes numerous counterparties to minimize its exposure to potential defaults. The Company does not require collateral under these agreements. Refer to Note 5.
Note 2
FRANCHISE LICENSE INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The following table summarizes the changes in the Company's net franchise license intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 (in millions):
 
The Company's franchise license agreements contain performance requirements and convey to the Company the rights to distribute and sell products of the licensor within specified territories. The Company's agreements with TCCC have 10-year terms and expire on December 31, 2017. While these agreements contain no automatic right of renewal beyond that date, the Company believes that its interdependent relationship with TCCC and the substantial cost and disruption to TCCC that would be caused by nonrenewals ensure that these agreements will continue to be renewed and, therefore, are essentially perpetual. The Company has never had a franchise license agreement with TCCC terminated due to nonperformance of the terms of the agreement or due to a decision by TCCC to terminate an agreement at the expiration of a term. After evaluating the contractual provisions of the Company's franchise license agreements, the mutually beneficial relationship with TCCC, and the Company's history of renewals, the Company has assigned indefinite lives to all of its franchise license intangible assets.
The Company does not amortize its franchise license intangible assets. Instead, the Company tests these assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if facts or circumstances indicate they may be impaired. The annual testing date for impairment purposes is the last reporting day of October, which was established when the Company discontinued the amortization of its franchise license intangible assets in 2002. The impairment tests for the Company's franchise license intangible assets involves comparing the estimated fair value of franchise license intangible assets for a reporting unit to its carrying amount to determine if a write down to fair value is required. If the carrying amount of the franchise license intangible assets exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to the excess, not to exceed the carrying amount. Any subsequent recoveries in the estimated fair values of the Company's franchise license intangible assets are not recorded. The fair values calculated in these impairment tests are determined using discounted cash flow models involving assumptions that are based upon what the Company believes a hypothetical marketplace participant would use in estimating fair value on the measurement date.
During 2009, 2008, and 2007, the Company's franchise license intangible assets were included as part of CCE's impairment testing. CCE performed its impairment tests at its operating segment level, which were CCE's reporting units. The results of the impairment tests performed by CCE during these periods indicated that the fair value of the Company's franchise license intangible assets (CCE's European operating segment) exceeded their carrying amounts by a substantial margin. On a stand-alone basis, the Company's reporting unit continues to be its operating segment, as described in Note 13.
 
 
Note 3
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Transactions with TCCC
The Company is a marketer, producer, and distributor principally of products of TCCC with greater than 95 percent of the Company's sales volume consisting of sales of TCCC products. The Company's license arrangements with TCCC are governed by product licensing agreements. From time to time, the terms and conditions of programs with TCCC are modified.
The following table summarizes the transactions with TCCC that directly affected the Company's Combined Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 (in millions):
 
Fountain Syrup and Packaged Product Sales
The Company acts as a billing and delivery agent for TCCC in certain territories for certain chain fountain customers on behalf of TCCC and receives distribution fees from TCCC for those sales. The Company invoices and collects amounts receivable for these fountain syrup sales on behalf of TCCC. The Company also sells bottle and can products to TCCC at prices that are generally similar to the prices charged by CCE to CCE's major customers.
Purchases of Concentrate, Mineral Water, Juice, and Finished Products
The Company purchases concentrate, mineral water, and juice from TCCC to produce, package, distribute, and sell TCCC's products under product licensing agreements. The Company also purchases finished products from TCCC for sale within certain territories. The product licensing agreements give TCCC complete discretion to set prices of concentrate and finished products. Pricing of mineral water is also based on contractual arrangements with TCCC.
Marketing Support Funding Earned and Other Arrangements
The Company and TCCC engage in a variety of marketing programs to promote the sale of products of TCCC in territories in which the Company operates. The amounts to be paid to the Company by TCCC under the programs are generally determined annually and are periodically reassessed as the programs progress. Under the licensing agreements, TCCC is under no obligation to participate in the programs or continue past levels of funding in the future. The amounts paid and terms of similar programs with other licensees may differ. Marketing support funding programs granted to the Company, intended to offset a portion of the costs of the programs, provide financial support principally based on product sales or upon the completion of stated requirements.
CCE acts as TCCC's Local Marketing Partner (referred to herein as LMP) for local fountain accounts in certain territories pursuant to a Local Marketing Partner Program Agreement with TCCC. CCE provides, among other things, account management, equipment, service and reporting in exchange for funding paid on both delivered and non-delivered fountain sales to local accounts in the territory.
 
 
Other Transactions
Other transactions with TCCC include management fees, office space leases, and purchases of point-of-sale and other advertising items, all of which were not material to the Company's Combined Financial Statements.
Cold Drink Equipment Placement Programs
The Company is party to the Cold Drink Equipment Purchase Partnership Programs (Jumpstart Programs) between CCE and TCCC. The Jumpstart Programs are designed to promote the purchase and placement of cold drink equipment. By the end of 2007, the Company had met its obligations to purchase and place cold drink equipment (principally vending machines and coolers). Under the Jumpstart Programs, as amended, the Company agrees to:
 
 
 
 
Historically, the Company's throughput on equipment placed under the Jumpstart Programs has generally exceeded the throughput requirements of the Jumpstart Programs by more than two times.
Transactions with CCE
Amounts Due To/From CCE
The Company has amounts due to/from CCE that have various maturity dates and are typically issued at fixed interest rates that approximate interest rates in effect at the time of issuance. The total amount due to CCE was $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These amounts are included in amounts due to CCE on the Company's Combined Balance Sheets. Interest expense on these amounts totaled $68 million, $60 million, and $62 million during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The total amount due from CCE was $346 million and $276 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These amounts are included in amounts due from CCE on the Company's Combined Balance Sheets. Interest income on these amounts totaled $9 million, $15 million, and $17 million during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. For additional information about the Company's amounts due to/from CCE, refer to Note 6.
Allocation of CCE Corporate Expenses
The Combined Financial Statements also include an allocation of certain corporate expenses related to services provided to the Company by CCE. These expenses include the cost of executive oversight, information technology, legal, treasury, risk management, human resources, accounting and reporting, investor relations, public relations, internal audit, and certain global restructuring projects. The cost of these services has been allocated based on specific identification when possible or, when the expenses were determined to be global in nature, based on the percentage of the Company's relative sales volume to total CCE sales volume for the periods presented. Management believes these allocations are a reasonable representation of the cost of the services provided; however, these allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred by the Company had it been operating as an independent company for the periods presented. During 2009, 2008, and 2007, the Company's allocated expenses from CCE's corporate operating segment totaled $168 million, $139 million, and $118 million, respectively. The Company expects its annual corporate operating expenses to total approximately $185 million (amount is unaudited) as an independent company.
 
 
Note 4
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES
The following table summarizes the Company's accounts payable and accrued expenses as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions):
 
Note 5
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The following table summarizes the fair value of the Company's assets and liabilities related to derivative financial instruments, and the respective line items in which they were recorded in the Company's Combined Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions):
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Hedges
To mitigate exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in interest rates, the Company utilizes certain interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges. The gain or loss on the derivative and the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized immediately in interest expense, net. The following table summarizes the Company's outstanding interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges as of December 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
The following table summarizes the effect of the derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges on the Company's Combined Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions):
 
 
Cash Flow Hedges
Cash flow hedges are used to mitigate the Company's exposure to changes in cash flows attributable to currency fluctuations associated with certain forecasted transactions, including purchases of raw materials and services denominated in non-functional currencies, and the payment of interest and principal on debt issuances in non-functional currencies. Effective changes in the fair value of these cash flow hedging instruments are recognized in AOCI on the Company's Combined Balance Sheets. The effective changes are then recognized in the period that the forecasted purchases or payments impact earnings in the expense line item that is consistent with the nature of the underlying hedged item. Any changes in the fair value of these cash flow hedges that are the result of ineffectiveness are recognized immediately in the expense line item that is consistent with the nature of the underlying hedged item. The following table summarizes the Company's outstanding cash flow hedges as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 (all contracts denominated in a non-U.S. currency have been converted into USD using the period end spot rate):
 
The following tables summarize the net of tax effect of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges on the Company's AOCI and Combined Statements of Operations and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions):
 
 
 
 
Economic (Non-designated) Hedges
The Company periodically enters into derivative instruments that are designed to hedge various risks, but are not designated as hedging instruments. These hedged risks include those related to currency and commodity price fluctuations associated with certain forecasted transactions, including purchases of raw materials in non-functional currencies, vehicle fuel, and aluminum. The following table summarizes the Company's outstanding economic hedges as of December 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
Changes in the fair value of outstanding economic hedges are recognized each reporting period in the expense line item that is consistent with the nature of the hedged risk. The following table summarizes the effect derivative financial instruments not designated in specified hedging arrangements on the Company's Combined Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions):
 
Beginning in the third quarter of 2009, mark-to-market gains/losses related to the Company's non-designated hedges are included in the Company's Corporate segment operating results (refer to Note 14) until such time the underlying hedge transaction affects the earnings of the Europe operating segment. In the period the underlying hedged transaction occurs, the accumulated mark-to-market gains/losses related to the hedged transaction are reclassified from the Company's Corporate segment into the earnings of the Europe operating segment. This treatment allows the Company's Europe operating segment to reflect the true economic effects of the non-designated hedge on the underlying hedged transaction in the period the hedged transaction occurs without experiencing the mark-to-market volatility associated with these hedges. Prior to the third quarter of 2009, out-of-year mark-to-market gains/losses related to non-designated hedges were not material.
During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company's Corporate segment included net mark-to-market gains on non-designated hedges totaling $10 million, which is included in cost of sales and will be reclassified into the earnings of the Europe operating segment when the underlying hedged transaction occurs during 2010. For additional information about the Company's segment reporting, refer to Note 13.
 
 
Note 6
DEBT AND CAPITAL LEASES
The following table summarizes the Company's debt as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions, except rates):
 
 
 
 
Future Maturities
The following table summarizes the Company's third party debt maturities and capital lease obligations as of December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
The following table summarizes the Company's amounts due to CCE as of December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
Covenants
The Company's outstanding notes contain various provisions that, among other things, require limitation of the incurrence of certain liens or encumbrances in excess of defined amounts. The Company was in compliance with these requirements as of December 31, 2009. These requirements currently are not, and it is not anticipated they will become, restrictive to the Company's liquidity or capital resources.
 
 
Note 7
OPERATING LEASES
The Company leases land, office and warehouse space, computer hardware, machinery and equipment, and vehicles under noncancelable operating lease agreements expiring at various dates through 2017. Some lease agreements contain standard renewal provisions that allow the Company to renew the lease at rates equivalent to fair market value at the end of the lease term. Under lease agreements that contain escalating rent provisions, lease expense is recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Rent expense under noncancelable operating lease agreements totaled $77 million, $93 million, and $88 million during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
The following table summarizes the Company's minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases with initial or remaining lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
Note 8
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Purchase Commitments
The Company has noncancelable purchase agreements with various suppliers that specify a fixed or minimum quantity that it must purchase. All purchases made under these agreements are subject to standard quality and performance criteria. The following table summarizes the Company's purchase commitments as of December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
 
 
Legal Contingencies
In connection with the agreements entered into between CCE and TCCC, three putative class action lawsuits were filed in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, and five putative class action lawsuits were filed in Delaware Chancery Court between the announcement date, and the present. The lawsuits are all similar and assert claims on behalf of CCE's shareholders for various breaches of fiduciary duty in connection with the agreement. The lawsuits name CCE, the CCE Board, and TCCC as defendants. Plaintiffs in each case seek to enjoin the transaction, to declare the deal void and rescind the transaction if it is consummated, to require disgorgement of all profits the defendants receive from the transaction, and to recover damages, attorneys' fees, and litigation expenses. The Georgia cases were consolidated by orders entered March 25, 2010 and April 9, 2010, and the Delaware cases were consolidated on March 16, 2010. CCE believes the cases to be without merit and intends to defend them vigorously. For additional information about the agreements, refer to Note 1.
During early 2008, the United Kingdom's Office of Fair Trading (OFT) commenced an investigation in connection with the four largest grocery retailers in the United Kingdom, as well as a large number of their suppliers, including the Company, regarding alleged involvement in the coordination of retail prices among retailers. As part of the investigation, the OFT sent the Company a request for information, and the Company provided the requested information to the OFT for their inspection. The first inspection of data occurred in October 2008. The OFT completed their initial evidence review in November 2009. In February 2010, the Company met with the OFT to discuss the scope of the investigation and next steps. The OFT advised the Company that it had reasonable grounds for suspecting an infringement by the Company; however based on current evidence it has not formed a "belief" that an infringement has occurred. The OFT has requested additional information from the Company and certain of the Company's retail customers, but has not reached a decision regarding the Company's alleged involvement in the coordination of retail prices. Because the investigation is still in its early stages, it is not possible for the Company to predict the ultimate outcome of this matter at this time.
Tax Audits
The Company's tax filings for various periods are subjected to audit by tax authorities in most jurisdictions in which the Company does business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or potentially through the courts. The Company believes it has adequately provided for any assessments that could result from these audits where it is more likely than not that the Company will pay some amount.
Workforce (Unaudited)
At December 31, 2009, the Company employed approximately 11,000 people. A majority of the Company's employees are covered by collectively bargained labor agreements, most of which do not expire. However, wage rates must be renegotiated at various dates through 2012. The Company believes that it will be able to renegotiate subsequent agreements upon satisfactory terms.
Indemnifications
In the normal course of business, the Company enters into agreements that provide general indemnifications. The Company has not made significant indemnification payments under such agreements in the past, and the Company believes the likelihood of incurring such a payment obligation in the future is remote. Furthermore, the Company cannot reasonably estimate future potential payment obligations because the Company cannot predict when and under what circumstances they may be incurred. As a result, the Company has not recorded a liability in its Combined Financial Statements with respect to these general indemnifications.
 
 
Note 9
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
Pension Plans
The Company sponsors a number of defined benefit pension plans. All pension plans are measured as of December 31.
Net Periodic Benefit Costs
The following table summarizes the net periodic benefit costs of the Company's pension plans for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 (in millions):
 
 
Actuarial Assumptions
The following table summarizes the weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit costs of the Company's pension plans for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007:
 
 
The following table summarizes the weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations of the Company's pension plans at the measurement date:
 
 
 
Benefit Obligation and Fair Value of Plan Assets
The following table summarizes the changes in the Company's pension plan benefit obligations and the fair value of the Company's plan assets as of the measurement date (in millions):
 
The following table summarizes the projected benefit obligation (PBO), the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), and the fair value of plan assets for the Company's pension plans with an ABO in excess of plan assets and for the Company's pension plans with a PBO in excess of plan assets (in millions):
 
 
 
Funded Status
The following table summarizes the funded status of the Company's pension plans as of the measurement date and the amounts recognized in the Company's Combined Balance Sheets (in millions):
 
The ABO for the Company's pension plans as of the measurement dates was $707 million in 2009 and $528 million in 2008.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The following table summarizes the amounts recorded in AOCI, which have not yet been recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost (pretax; in millions):
 
The following table summarizes the changes in AOCI for the year ended December 31, 2009 related to the Company's pension plans (pretax; in millions):
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the amounts in AOCI expected to be amortized and recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost in 2010 (pretax; in millions):
 
Pension Plan Assets
The Company has established formal investment policies for the assets associated with its pension plans. Policy objectives include maximizing long-term return at acceptable risk levels, diversifying among asset classes, if appropriate, and among investment managers, as well as establishing relevant risk parameters within each asset class. Investment policies reflect the unique circumstances of the respective plans and include requirements designed to mitigate risk including quality and diversification standards. Asset allocation targets are based on periodic asset liability and/or risk budgeting study results which help determine the appropriate investment strategies for acceptable risk levels. The investment policies permit variances from the targets within certain parameters. The weighted average expected long-term rates of return are based on a January 2010 review of such rates.
Factors such as asset class allocations, long-term rates of return (actual and expected), and results of periodic asset liability modeling studies are considered when constructing the long-term rate of return assumption for the Company's pension plans. While historical rates of return play an important role in the analysis, the Company also takes into consideration data points from other external sources if there is a reasonable justification to do so. The following table summarizes the Company's weighted average pension asset allocations as of the measurement date and the expected long-term rates of return by asset category:
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the Company's pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis (at least annually) as of December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
The following table summarizes the changes in the Company's Level 3 pension plan assets for the year ended December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
 
Benefit Plan Contributions
The following table summarizes the contributions made to the Company's pension plans for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, as well as the Company's projected contributions for the year ending December 31, 2010 (in millions):
 
 
The Company funds its pension plans at a level to maintain, within established guidelines, the appropriate funded status for each country.
Benefit Plan Payments
Benefit payments are primarily made from funded benefit plan trusts. The following table summarizes the Company's expected future benefit payments as of December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
Defined Contribution Plans
The Company sponsors qualified defined contribution plans covering substantially all of its employees in France, and certain employees in Great Britain and the Netherlands. The Company's contributions to these plans totaled $6 million, $5 million, and $3 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
Note 10
INCOME TAXES
The following table summarizes the Company's income before income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 (in millions):
 
 
 
The current income tax provision represents the estimated amount of income taxes paid or payable for the year, as well as changes in estimates from prior years. The deferred income tax provision represents the change in deferred tax liabilities and assets. The following table summarizes the significant components of income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 (in millions):
 
The Company's effective tax rate was a provision of 21 percent, 18 percent, and 8 percent for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The following table provides a reconciliation of the Company's income tax expense at the statutory U.S. federal tax rate to the Company's actual income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 (in millions):
 
 
The following table summarizes, by major tax jurisdiction, the Company's tax years that remain subject to examination by taxing authorities:
 
The Company had approximately $750 million in cumulative undistributed non-U.S. earnings as of December 31, 2009. These earnings are exclusive of amounts that would result in little or no tax under current tax laws if remitted in the future. The earnings from the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries are considered to be indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no provision for U.S. federal and state income taxes has been made in the Company's Combined Financial Statements. A distribution of these non-U.S. earnings in the form of dividends, or otherwise, would subject the Company to both U.S. federal and state income taxes, as adjusted for foreign tax credits, and withholding taxes payable to the various non-U.S. countries. Determination of the amount of any unrecognized deferred income tax liability on these undistributed earnings is not practicable.
 
 
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The following table summarizes the significant components of the Company's deferred tax liabilities and assets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions):
 
 
The Company recognizes valuation allowances on deferred tax assets if, based on the weight of the evidence, the Company believes that it is more likely than not that some or all of its deferred tax assets will not be realized. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had valuation allowances of $45 million and $40 million, respectively. The change in the Company's valuation allowances was primarily due to currency exchange rate changes. The Company believes its remaining deferred tax assets will be realized because of the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryforward period available under the tax law.
As of December 31, 2009, the Company's net tax operating loss carryforwards totaled $147 million, the majority of which do not expire.
Note 11
SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS
Certain of the Company's employees participate in share-based compensation plans sponsored by CCE. These plans provide the employees with non-qualified share options to purchase CCE stock or restricted shares (units) of CCE stock. Some of the awards contain performance or market conditions that are based on the stock price or performance of CCE. Compensation expense related to these share-based payment awards is included in the Company's Combined Statement of Operations based on specific identification when possible or, when the expense was determined to be related to an employee that provided services to CCE as whole, based on the percentage of the Company's relative sales volume to total CCE sales volume for the periods presented.
As of December 31, 2009, employees of the Company had outstanding approximately 9.5 million share options and 4.3 million restricted shares (units) under plans sponsored by CCE. These amounts include all share-based awards issued by CCE to its employees in Europe and an estimate of share-based awards held by certain CCE corporate employees that are currently expected to be employed by New CCE.
In connection with the Merger, the CCE Board's Compensation Committee approved a modification of certain share-based payment awards contingent upon a "change of control." These awards were modified to
 
ensure that the share-based payment awards held by CCE employees (including employees expected to be employed by New CCE) were fairly converted upon the closing of the transaction with TCCC. The modification of these awards did not result in a material change in the expected share-based compensation for these awards.
Upon the effective date of the Merger, the Company's employees will have their CCE share-based awards converted into New CCE share-based awards. Such awards will be converted in a manner that provides the employee with the same intrinsic value in New CCE shares as the employee had in CCE shares immediately prior to the effective date of the Merger. Performance and/or service vesting requirements of converted share-based awards will still need to be satisfied for the awards to ultimately vest.
There are no outstanding share-based awards in any of the legal entities of New CCE.
Note 12
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
Comprehensive income (loss) is comprised of net income and other adjustments, including items such as non-U.S. currency translation adjustments, hedges of net investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, pension liability adjustments, and changes in the fair value of certain derivative financial instruments qualifying as cash flow hedges. The Company has not historically provided income taxes on currency translation adjustments, as the earnings from the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries were considered to be indefinitely reinvested (refer to Note 10). The following table summarizes the Company's AOCI activity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 (in millions):
 
 
Note 13
OPERATING SEGMENT
The Company operates in one industry and has one operating segment. This segment derives its revenues from marketing, producing, and distributing nonalcoholic beverages. No single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of the Company's 2009, 2008, or 2007 net operating revenues.
The Company's segment operating income includes the segment's revenue, if any, less substantially all its cost of production, distribution, and administration. The Company evaluates segment performance and allocates resources based on several factors, of which net operating revenues and operating income are the primary financial measures.
 
 
The Company's corporate segment includes the allocation of certain corporate expenses related to services provided to the Company by CCE. These expenses include the cost of executive oversight, information technology, legal, treasury, risk management, human resources, accounting and reporting, investor relations, public relations, internal audit, and certain global restructuring projects. The cost of these services has been allocated based on specific identification when possible or, when the expenses were determined to be global in nature, based on the percentage of the Company's relative sales volume to total CCE sales volume for the periods presented. Management believes these allocations are a reasonable representation of the cost of the services provided; however, these allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred by the Company had it been operating as an independent company for the periods presented. The Company expects its annual corporate operating expenses to total approximately $185 million (amount is unaudited) as an independent company.
Additionally, beginning in the third quarter of 2009, the mark-to-market gains/losses related to the Company's non-designated hedges are included in the Company's Corporate segment until such time as the underlying hedge transaction affects the earnings of the operating segment. In the period the underlying hedged transaction occurs, the accumulated mark-to-market gains/losses related to the hedged transaction are reclassified from the Corporate segment into the earnings of the operating segment. This treatment allows the Company's operating segments to reflect the true economic effects of the underlying hedged transaction without experiencing the mark-to-market volatility associated with these non-designated hedges. Prior to the third quarter of 2009, out-of-year mark-to-market gains/losses related to the Company's non-designated hedges were not material. For additional information about the Company's non-designated hedges, refer to Note 5.
The following table summarizes selected financial information related to the Company's operating segment for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 (in millions):
 
 
 
Note 14
RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES
The following table summarizes restructuring costs identified as specific to New CCE, by segment, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 (in millions):
 
 
Supply Chain Initiatives and Business Optimization
During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recorded restructuring charges totaling $9 million primarily related to streamlining the Company's cooler services business and harmonizing its plant operations. These charges were included in SD&A expenses. The Company expects to be substantially complete with these restructuring activities by the end of 2011.
The following table summarizes these restructuring activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
 
Business Reorganization and Process Standardization
During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, the Company recorded restructuring charges totaling $20 million, $28 million, and $15 million, respectively, related to the creation of a more efficient supply chain and order fulfillment structure and to streamline and reduce the cost structure of back-office functions in the areas of accounting and human resources. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had completed these restructuring activities. The cumulative cost of this program was $63 million.
The following table summarizes these restructuring activities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 (in millions):
 
Note 15
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On October 2, 2010, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, TCCC completed its acquisition of CCE through the Merger of a newly created TCCC subsidiary with and into CCE, with CCE continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of TCCC. CCE continues to own and to be liable for a substantial majority of the assets and liabilities of CCE's North American Business, including CCE's accumulated benefit obligations relating to CCE's North American Business. Immediately prior to the Merger, CCE separated its European operations and transferred those businesses, along with Coca-Cola Enterprises (Canada) Bottling Finance Company and a related portion of its corporate segment, to New CCE, which was renamed Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. For additional information about the Merger, refer to Note 1.
Concurrently with the Merger, New CCE acquired TCCC's bottling operations in Norway and Sweden pursuant to the Norway-Sweden SPA, for a purchase price of $822 million plus a working capital adjustment of $49 million. The Norway-Sweden SPA also contains a provision for adjustment payments between the parties based upon the adjusted EBITDA (as defined) of the Norway and Sweden business for the twelve months ending December 31, 2010. For additional information about New CCE's acquisition of the Norway and Sweden business, refer to Note 1.
The Merger Agreement also includes customary covenants, as well as a non-compete covenant with respect to New CCE and its right to acquire TCCC's interest in TCCC's German bottling operations for fair value between 18 and 39 months after the date of the Merger Agreement, on terms to be agreed.
 
 
Immediately following the Merger, 338,786,671 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of New CCE were issued and outstanding. New CCE's stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CCE". In connection with the issuance of its stock, New CCE filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-167067) with the Securities and Exchange Commission that was declared effective on August 25, 2010 (Registration Statement). For additional information about the Merger, refer to the Registration Statement.
New CCE and CCE's North American Business incurred expenses totaling $65 million related to the transaction during the third quarter of 2010 and incurred total expenses related to the transaction of approximately $105 million.
The following transactions occurred during the third quarter of 2010 in connection with the Merger and the creation of New CCE.
 
 
 
In connection with the Merger, New CCE has (1) signed license agreements with TCCC for each of its territories with a term of 10 years and containing a 10-year renewal at its option (subject to certain conditions), and (2) signed a 5-year agreement with TCCC to implement an incidence-based concentrate pricing model across its territories.
In connection with the Merger Agreement entered into between CCE and TCCC on February 25, 2010, three putative class action lawsuits were filed in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, and five putative class action lawsuits were filed in Delaware Chancery Court. The lawsuits are similar and assert claims on behalf of CCE's shareholders for various breaches of fiduciary duty in connection with the Merger Agreement. The lawsuits name CCE, the CCE Board of Directors, and TCCC as defendants. Plaintiffs in each case seek to enjoin the transaction, to declare the deal void and rescind the transaction if it is consummated, to require disgorgement of all profits the defendants receive from the transaction, and to recover damages, attorneys' fees, and litigation expenses. The Georgia cases were consolidated by orders entered March 25, 2010 and April 9, 2010, and the Delaware cases were consolidated on March 16, 2010. On September 3, 2010, the parties to the consolidated Georgia action executed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) containing the terms for the parties' agreement in principle to resolve the Delaware and Georgia actions. The MOU called for certain amendments to the transaction agreements as well as certain revisions to the disclosures relating to the transaction. The MOU also contemplates that plaintiffs will seek an award of attorneys' fees in an amount not to exceed $7.5 million. Pursuant to the transaction agreements, the liability for these attorney fees would be shared equally between New CCE and TCCC. Under the MOU, the parties will seek approval of the settlement from the Georgia court, and if approved, the Georgia action will be dismissed with prejudice, and plaintiffs will thereafter dismiss the Delaware consolidated action with prejudice. For additional information about the Merger, refer to Note 1.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
Condensed Combined Financial Statements
Three and Six Months Ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1BUSINESS AND REPORTING POLICIES
Organization
On February 25, 2010, Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE) entered into agreements with The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) under which:
 
 
 
 
For additional information about the transaction with TCCC, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Combined Financial Statements contained in this proxy statement/prospectus.
Business
New CCE is a marketer, producer, and distributor of nonalcoholic beverages. New CCE markets, produces, and distributes its products to customers and consumers through licensed territory agreements in Belgium, continental France, Great Britain, Luxembourg, Monaco, and the Netherlands. New CCE operates in the highly competitive beverage industry and faces strong competition from other general and specialty beverage companies. New CCE's financial results, like those of other beverage companies, are affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, cost to manufacture and distribute products, general economic conditions, consumer preferences, local and national laws and regulations, availability of raw materials, fuel prices, and weather patterns.
Sales of New CCE's products tend to be seasonal, with the second and third quarters accounting for higher unit sales of New CCE's products than the first and fourth quarters. In a typical year, New CCE earns more than 60 percent of its annual operating income during the second and third quarters of the year.
 
 
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Combined Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial reporting and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals and expense allocations) considered necessary for fair presentation have been included. The Condensed Combined Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Combined Financial Statements and accompanying Notes contained in this proxy statement/prospectus.
New CCE's Condensed Combined Financial Statements have been prepared on a "carve-out" basis from CCE's Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements using the historical results of operations, assets, and liabilities attributable to the legal entities that will comprise New CCE as of the effective time of the Merger. These legal entities include all that were previously part of CCE's European operating segment, as well as Coca-Cola Enterprises (Canada) Bottling Finance Company. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions among the legal entities that comprise New CCE have been eliminated.
The Condensed Combined Financial Statements also include an allocation of certain Corporate expenses related to services provided to New CCE by CCE. These expenses include the cost of executive oversight, information technology, legal, treasury, risk management, human resources, accounting and reporting, investor relations, public relations, internal audit, and certain global restructuring projects. The cost of these services has been allocated to New CCE based on specific identification when possible or, when the expenses were determined to be global in nature, based on the percentage of New CCE's relative sales volume to total CCE sales volume for the periods presented. Management believes these allocations are a reasonable representation of the cost incurred for the services provided; however, these allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred by New CCE had it been operating as an independent company for the periods presented (refer to Note 4).
Total interest expense represents interest incurred on New CCE's third-party debt, as well as amounts due to CCE. No interest expense incurred by CCE has been allocated to New CCE as CCE's third-party debt is not specifically related to New CCE's operations.
Total equity represents CCE's interest in the recorded net assets of New CCE, as well as other comprehensive income or loss attributable to New CCE. The CCE net investment balance represents the cumulative net investment by CCE in New CCE, including any prior net income and certain transactions between New CCE and CCE, such as allocated expenses. In addition, during the second quarter of 2010, New CCE made a cash contribution to CCE in connection with activities necessary to facilitate the Merger.
For reporting convenience, New CCE's quarters close on the Friday closest to the end of the quarterly calendar period. The following table summarizes the number of selling days for the periods presented (based on a standard five-day selling week):
 
 
 
NOTE 2INVENTORIES
New CCE values its inventories at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The following table summarizes New CCE's inventories as of July 2, 2010 and December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
NOTE 3PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT
The following table summarizes New CCE's property, plant, and equipment as of July 2, 2010 and December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
NOTE 4RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Transactions with TCCC
New CCE is a marketer, producer, and distributor principally of products of TCCC with greater than 90 percent of New CCE's sales volume consisting of sales of TCCC products. New CCE's license arrangements with TCCC are governed by licensed territory agreements. From time to time, the terms and conditions of programs with TCCC are modified.
The following table summarizes the transactions with TCCC that directly affected New CCE's Condensed Combined Statements of Operations for the three and six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
 
For additional information about agreements and transactions with TCCC, refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Combined Financial Statements contained in this proxy statement / prospectus.
Transactions with CCE
Amounts Due To/From CCE
New CCE has amounts due to/from CCE that have various maturity dates and are typically issued at fixed interest rates that approximate interest rates in effect at the time of issuance. The total amount due to CCE was $925 million and $1 billion as of July 2, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. These amounts are included in Amounts due to CCE on New CCE's Condensed Combined Balance Sheets. During the second quarter and first six months of 2010, New CCE had interest expense related to these amounts of $13 million and $27 million, respectively, compared to interest expense of $17 million and $34 million during the second quarter and first six months of 2009, respectively. The total amount due from CCE was $40 million and $346 million as of July 2, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. These amounts are included in Amounts due from CCE on New CCE's Condensed Combined Balance Sheets. During the second quarter and first six months of 2010, New CCE had interest income related to these amounts of $5 million and $7 million, respectively, compared to interest income of $1 million and $4 million during the second quarter and first six months of 2009, respectively. For additional information about New CCE's amounts due to/from CCE, refer to Note 6.
Allocation of CCE Corporate Expenses
The Condensed Combined Financial Statements also include an allocation of certain Corporate expenses related to services provided to New CCE by CCE. These expenses include the cost of executive oversight, information technology, legal, treasury, risk management, human resources, accounting and reporting, investor relations, public relations, internal audit, and certain global restructuring projects. The cost of these services has been allocated based on specific identification when possible or, when the expenses were determined to be global in nature, based on the percentage of New CCE's relative sales volume to total CCE sales volume for the periods presented. Management believes these allocations are a reasonable representation of the cost of the services provided; however, these allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred by New CCE had it been operating as an independent company for the periods presented. New CCE expects its annual Corporate operating expenses to total approximately $185 million (unaudited) as an independent company. The following table summarizes New CCE's allocated expenses from CCE's Corporate segment for the three and six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009 (in millions):
 
NOTE 5DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
New CCE utilizes derivative financial instruments to mitigate its exposure to certain market risks associated with ongoing operations. The primary risks that New CCE seeks to manage through the use of derivative financial instruments include interest rate risk, currency exchange risk, and commodity price risk. All derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value on the Condensed Combined Balance Sheets. New CCE does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. While certain of New CCE's derivative instruments are designated as hedging instruments, New CCE also enters into derivative instruments that are designed to hedge a risk, but are not designated as hedging instruments (referred to as an "economic hedge" or "non-designated hedges"). Changes in the fair value of these non-designated hedging instruments are recognized in the expense line item that is consistent with the nature of the hedged risk. New CCE is exposed to counterparty credit risk on all of its derivative financial instruments. New CCE has established and maintains strict counterparty credit guidelines and enters into hedges only with financial institutions that are investment grade or better. New CCE continuously monitors counterparty credit risk, and utilizes numerous counterparties to minimize its exposure to potential defaults. New CCE does not require collateral under these agreements.
 
 
The following table summarizes the fair value of New CCE's assets and liabilities related to derivative financial instruments, and the respective line items in which they were recorded in New CCE's Condensed Combined Balance Sheets as of July 2, 2010 and December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
Fair Value Hedges
To mitigate exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in interest rates, New CCE utilizes certain interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges. The gain or loss on the derivative and the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized immediately in interest expense, net. The following table summarizes New CCE's outstanding interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges as of July 2, 2010 and December 31, 2009:
 
The following table summarizes the effect of the derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges on New CCE's Condensed Combined Statements of Operations for the three and six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
 
 
Cash Flow Hedges
Cash flow hedges are used to mitigate New CCE's exposure to changes in cash flows attributable to currency fluctuations associated with certain forecasted transactions, including purchases of raw materials and services denominated in non-functional currencies and the payment of interest and principal on debt issuances in non-functional currencies. Effective changes in the fair value of these cash flow hedging instruments are recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) on New CCE's Condensed Combined Balance Sheets. The effective changes are then recognized in the period that the forecasted purchases or payments impact earnings in the expense line item that is consistent with the nature of the underlying hedged item. Any changes in the fair value of these cash flow hedges that are the result of ineffectiveness are recognized immediately in the expense line item that is consistent with the nature of the underlying hedged item. The following table summarizes New CCE's outstanding cash flow hedges as of July 2, 2010 and December 31, 2009 (all contracts denominated in a non-U.S. currency have been converted into USD using the period end spot rate):
 
The following tables summarize the net of tax effect of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges on New CCE's AOCI and Condensed Combined Statements of Operations for the three and six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
Economic (Non-designated) Hedges
New CCE periodically enters into derivative instruments that are designed to hedge various risks, but are not designated as hedging instruments. These hedged risks include those related to currency and commodity price fluctuations associated with certain forecasted transactions, including purchases of raw materials in non-functional currencies, vehicle fuel, and aluminum. The following table summarizes New CCE's outstanding economic hedges as of July 2, 2010 and December 31, 2009:
 
 
Changes in the fair value of outstanding economic hedges are recognized each reporting period in the expense line item that is consistent with the nature of the hedged risk. The following table summarizes the effect of New CCE's non-designated derivative financial instruments on New CCE's Condensed Combined Statements of Operations for the three and six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009 (in millions):
 
Beginning in the third quarter of 2009, mark-to-market gains/losses related to New CCE's non-designated hedges are included in New CCE's Corporate segment operating results (refer to Note 12) until such time as the underlying hedge transaction affects the earnings of the Europe operating segment. In the period the underlying hedged transaction occurs, the accumulated mark-to-market gains/losses related to the hedged transaction are reclassified from New CCE's Corporate segment into the earnings of the Europe operating segment. This treatment allows New CCE's Europe operating segment to reflect the true economic effects of the non-designated hedge on the underlying hedged transaction in the period the hedged transaction occurs without experiencing the mark-to-market volatility associated with these hedges. Prior to the third quarter of 2009, out-of-year mark-to-market gains/losses related to non-designated hedges were not material.
As of July 2, 2010, New CCE's Corporate segment included net mark-to-market gains on non-designated hedges totaling $3 million. These amounts will be reclassified into the earnings of the Europe operating segment when the underlying hedged transaction occurs. For additional information about New CCE's segment reporting, refer to Note 12. The following table summarizes the deferred gain/(loss) activity in New CCE's Corporate segment for the six months ended July 2, 2010 (in millions):
 
 
 
 
NOTE 6DEBT
The following table summarizes New CCE's debt as of July 2, 2010 and December 31, 2009 (in millions, except rates):
 
 
Covenants
New CCE's outstanding third party notes contain various provisions that, among other things, require limitation of the incurrence of certain liens or encumbrances in excess of defined amounts. New CCE was in compliance with these requirements as of July 2, 2010. These requirements currently are not, and it is not anticipated they will become, restrictive to New CCE's liquidity or capital resources.
NOTE 7COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Legal Contingencies
In connection with the agreements entered into between CCE and TCCC on February 25, 2010, three putative class action lawsuits were filed in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, and five putative class action lawsuits were filed in Delaware Chancery Court between the announcement date, and the present. The lawsuits are similar and assert claims on behalf of CCE's shareholders for various breaches of fiduciary duty in connection with the agreement. The lawsuits name CCE, the CCE Board of Directors, and TCCC as defendants. Plaintiffs in each case seek to enjoin the transaction, to declare the deal void and rescind the transaction if it is consummated, to require disgorgement of all profits the defendants receive from the transaction, and to recover damages, attorneys' fees, and litigation expenses. The Georgia cases were consolidated by orders entered
 
March 25, 2010 and April 9, 2010, and the Delaware cases were consolidated on March 16, 2010. CCE believes the cases to be without merit and intends to defend them vigorously. For additional information about the Merger Agreement between CCE and TCCC, refer to Note 1.
During early 2008, the United Kingdom's Office of Fair Trading (OFT) commenced an investigation in connection with the four largest grocery retailers in the United Kingdom, as well as a large number of their suppliers, including New CCE, regarding alleged involvement in the coordination of retail prices among retailers. As part of the investigation, the OFT sent New CCE a request for information, and New CCE provided the requested information to the OFT for their inspection. The first inspection of data occurred in October 2008. The OFT completed their initial evidence review in November 2009. In February 2010, New CCE met with the OFT to discuss the scope of the investigation and next steps. The OFT advised New CCE that it had reasonable grounds for suspecting an infringement by New CCE; however, based on current evidence it has not formed a "belief" that an infringement has occurred. The OFT has requested additional information from New CCE and certain of New CCE's retail customers, but has not reached a decision regarding New CCE's alleged involvement in the coordination of retail prices. Because the investigation is still in its early stages, it is not possible for New CCE to predict the ultimate outcome of this matter at this time.
Tax Audits
New CCE's tax filings for various periods are subjected to audit by tax authorities in most jurisdictions in which New CCE does business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or potentially through the courts. New CCE believes it has adequately provided for any assessments that could result from those proceedings where it is more likely than not that New CCE will pay some amount.
Indemnifications
In the normal course of business, New CCE enters into agreements that provide general indemnifications. New CCE has not made significant indemnification payments under such agreements in the past, and New CCE believes the likelihood of incurring such obligations in the future is remote. Furthermore, New CCE cannot reasonably estimate future potential payment obligations because New CCE cannot predict when and under what circumstances they may be incurred. As a result, New CCE has not recorded a liability in its Condensed Combined Financial Statements with respect to these general indemnifications.
NOTE 8EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
Pension Plans
New CCE sponsors a number of defined benefit pension plans. The following table summarizes the net periodic benefit costs of New CCE's pension plans for the three and six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
 
Contributions
Contributions to New CCE's pension plans totaled $59 million and $17 million during the six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009, respectively. The following table summarizes New CCE's projected contributions for the full year ending December 31, 2010, as well as actual contributions for the year ended December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
NOTE 9INCOME TAXES
New CCE's effective tax rate was approximately 20 percent and 19 percent for the six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009, respectively. The following table provides a reconciliation of the income tax expense at the statutory U.S. federal rate to New CCE's actual income tax expense for the six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009 (in millions):
 
NOTE 10COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income is comprised of net income and other adjustments, including items such as non-U.S. currency translation adjustments, pension plan liability adjustments, and changes in the fair value of certain derivative financial instruments qualifying as cash flow hedges. New CCE does not provide income taxes on currency translation adjustments, as the earnings from New CCE's non-U.S. subsidiaries are considered to be indefinitely reinvested.
The following table summarizes New CCE's comprehensive (loss) income for the three and six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
 
NOTE 11RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES
The following table summarizes restructuring costs identified as specific to New CCE, by segment, for the three and six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
Supply Chain Initiatives and Business Optimization
During the three and six months ended July 2, 2010, New CCE recorded restructuring charges totaling $9 million and $11 million, respectively, and during the three and six months ended July 3, 2009, New CCE recorded restructuring charges totaling $2 million and $3 million, respectively, primarily related to optimizing certain business information system processes, streamlining its cooler services business, and harmonizing its plant operations. These charges were included in SD&A expenses. New CCE expects to be substantially complete with these restructuring activities by the end of 2011. The cumulative cost of these projects as of July 2, 2010 was approximately $20 million.
The following table summarizes these restructuring activities for the six months ended July 2, 2010 and for the year ended December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
Business Reorganization and Process Standardization
During the three and six months ended July 3, 2009, New CCE recorded restructuring charges totaling $5 million and $15 million, respectively, related to the creation of a more efficient supply chain and order fulfillment structure and to streamline and reduce the cost structure of back-office functions in the areas of accounting and human resources. These charges were included in SD&A expenses. As of December 31, 2009, New CCE had completed these restructuring activities. The cumulative cost of this program was $63 million.
 
 
The following table summarizes these restructuring activities for the six months ended July 2, 2010 (in millions):
 
NOTE 12OPERATING SEGMENT
New CCE operates in one industry and has one operating segment. This segment derives its revenues from marketing, producing, and distributing nonalcoholic beverages. No single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of the net operating revenues during the six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009.
New CCE's segment operating income includes the segment's revenue, if any, less substantially all of the segment's cost of production, distribution, and administration. New CCE evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which net operating revenues and operating income are the primary financial measures.
New CCE's Corporate segment includes the allocation of certain Corporate expenses related to services provided to New CCE by CCE. These expenses include the cost of executive oversight, legal, treasury, risk management, human resources, accounting and reporting, investor relations, public relations, internal audit, and certain global restructuring projects. The cost of these services has been allocated based on specific identification when possible or, when the expenses were determined to be global in nature, based on the percentage of New CCE's relative sales volume to total CCE volume for the periods presented. Management believes these allocations are a reasonable representation of the cost of the services provided; however, these allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred by New CCE had it been operating as an independent company for the periods presented.
Additionally, beginning in the third quarter of 2009, the mark-to-market gains/losses related to New CCE's non-designated hedges are included in New CCE's Corporate segment until such time as the underlying hedge transaction affects the earnings of the operating segment. In the period the underlying hedged transaction occurs, the accumulated mark-to-market gains/losses related to the hedged transaction are reclassified from the Corporate segment into the earnings of the operating segment. This treatment allows New CCE's operating segments to reflect the true economic effects of the underlying hedged transaction without experiencing the mark-to-market volatility associated with these non-designated hedges. Prior to the third quarter of 2009, out-of-year mark-to-market gains/losses related to New CCE's non-designated hedges were not material. For additional information about New CCE's non-designated hedges, refer to Note 5.
The following table summarizes selected financial information related to New CCE's operating segment for the three and six months ended July 2, 2010 and July 3, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
 
NOTE 13FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
The following tables summarize New CCE's non-pension financial assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis (at least annually) as of July 2, 2010 and December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
The following presents New CCE's unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the year ended December 31, 2009 and as of and for the six months ended July 2, 2010. This financial information reflects the historical financial statements of New CCE as adjusted for the impact of the Merger (all pro forma adjustments are described more fully in the accompanying Notes). The pro forma unaudited condensed combined balance sheet as of July 2, 2010 has been prepared as if the Merger occurred as of the balance sheet date, and the pro forma unaudited condensed combined statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 and the six months ended July 2, 2010 have been prepared as if the Merger occurred on January 1, 2009.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information of New CCE is for informational purposes only and does not purport to present what New CCE's results would have been had the Merger actually occurred on the dates presented or to project New CCE's results of operations or financial position for any future period. The pro forma adjustments have been made based upon currently available information, preliminary estimates, and certain assumptions that are believed to be reasonable and represent all material adjustments that are necessary to fairly present the pro forma financial information. In particular, we have prepared the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations using a 4.5 percent interest rate to calculate interest expense related to the issuance of new debt by New CCE at closing. The interest rate utilized is preliminary and could materially change based on market conditions at the time of issuance and the ultimate portfolio of instruments New CCE issues.
This pro forma information should be read in conjunction with the following (i) New CCE's audited combined financial statements as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, including the notes thereto and (ii) New CCE's unaudited condensed combined financial statements as of and for the three and six months ended July 2, 2010, including the notes thereto, both included in this proxy statement/prospectus.
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited New CCE pro forma condensed combined balance sheet gives effect to the following pro forma adjustments (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited New CCE pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the six months ended July 2, 2010 gives effect to the following pro forma adjustments (in millions):
 
New CCE expects diluted weighted average common shares outstanding at closing to be approximately 350 million. We expect New CCE's diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding at closing to be higher than the estimated diluted shares outstanding disclosed in the pro forma financial statements due the following: (1) increases in CCE's share price and share option exercises since the announcement of the Merger on February 25, 2010 and (2) additional option exercises expected prior to the consummation of the Merger.
Certain of New CCE's employees participate in share-based compensation plans sponsored by CCE. These plans provide the employees with non-qualified share options to purchase CCE stock or restricted shares (units) of CCE stock. Some of the awards contain performance or market conditions that are based on the stock price or performance of CCE. Compensation expense related to these share-based payment awards is included in New CCE's statements of operations based on specific identification when possible or, when the expense was determined to be related to an employee that provided services to CCE as whole, based on the percentage of New CCE's relative sales volume to total CCE sales volume for the periods presented.
As of July 2, 2010, CCE employees currently expected to be employed by New CCE had outstanding approximately 7.7 million share options and 4.6 million restricted shares (units) under plans sponsored by CCE. These amounts include all share-based awards issued by CCE to its employees in Europe and an estimate for share-based awards held by certain CCE corporate employees that are currently expected to be employed by New CCE.
Upon the effective date of the Merger, New CCE's employees will have their CCE share-based awards converted into New CCE share-based awards. Such awards will be converted in a manner that provides the employee with the same intrinsic value in New CCE shares
 
as the employee had in CCE shares immediately prior to the effective date of the Merger. Service vesting requirements of converted share-based awards will still need to be satisfied for the awards to ultimately vest. New CCE does not expect the equity award replacements to result in a material difference in compensation expense due to the fact that the conversion is designed to maintain the same aggregate intrinsic value and ratio of exercise price to market price for the converted awards and New CCE expects the Black-Scholes assumptions used to estimate fair value will be materially consistent immediately before and after the conversion.
The following table summarizes information about share-based payment awards outstanding for CCE employees currently expected to be employed by New CCE:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited New CCE pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 gives effect to the following pro forma adjustments:
 
 
New CCE expects diluted weighted average common shares outstanding at closing to be approximately 350 million. We expect New CCE's diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding at closing to be higher than
 
the estimated diluted shares outstanding disclosed in the pro forma financial statements due the following: (1) increases in CCE's share price and share option exercises since the announcement of the Merger on February 25, 2010 and (2) additional option exercises expected prior to the consummation of the Merger.
 
Each 1/8 percent change in the interest rate would change interest expense by approximately $2 million per year. The estimated New CCE debt balance does not reflect potential fluctuations due to changes in working capital needs resulting from the seasonality of New CCE's business. We expect to have financing arrangements for New CCE in place by the end of the third quarter of 2010.
 
 


