FILE:CCE/CCE-8K-20101005171858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Changes in Control of Registrant	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transition Services Agreement
On October 2, 2010, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc., the entity formerly named International CCE Inc. (the "Company") and The Coca-Cola Company ("TCCC") entered into a transition services agreement (the "Transition Services Agreement"). In order to facilitate the transition of the European businesses pursuant to the Merger (as defined below in Item 2.01), under this agreement TCCC will provide the Company with specified services, on a fee-for-services basis, for a limited time, including the following: certain procurement services, financial services and HR services. The description herein of the Transition Services Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
Bottler's Agreements, Incidence Pricing Agreement, and Corporate Name Letters
On October 2, 2010, the bottling subsidiaries of the Company, TCCC and The Coca-Cola Export Corporation entered into bottler's agreements; the Company and TCCC entered into an incidence pricing agreement establishing concentrate prices; and the Company, TCCC and the bottling subsidiaries of the Company entered into corporate name letters. The descriptions herein of the bottler's agreements, the incidence pricing agreement and the corporate name letter are qualified in their entirety by reference to Exhibits 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4, respectively, hereto.
Tax Sharing Agreement
The Company, Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (renamed Coca-Cola Refreshments USA, Inc.) ("Old CCE") and TCCC entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement on February 25, 2010, under which New CCE will be required to indemnify TCCC and its affiliates for losses resulting from the failure of the Merger and related transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment described under Section 355 of the Code. The description herein of the Tax Sharing Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.5 hereto.
Employee Matters Agreement
The Company, Old CCE and TCCC entered into the Employee Matters Agreement on February 25, 2010 concerning employee matters, benefits and compensation. The description herein of the Employee Matters Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.6 hereto.
 
On October 2, 2010, the Company was separated (the "Separation") from its former parent, Old CCE, pursuant to the terms of the Business Separation and Merger Agreement dated as of February 25, 2010 among the Company, Old CCE, TCCC and Cobalt Subsidiary LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of TCCC ("Merger Sub"), as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Business Separation and Merger Agreement, dated as of September 6, 2010 (as amended, the "Merger Agreement").
 
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, (1) immediately prior to the Merger, Old CCE separated its businesses of marketing, producing and distributing nonalcoholic beverages outside of the United States, Canada, the British Virgin Islands, the United States Virgin Islands and the Cayman Islands and transferred those businesses to the Company and (2) Merger Sub merged (the "Merger") with and into Old CCE, with Old CCE continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of TCCC. In the Merger, (i) each outstanding share of common stock of Old CCE, other than shares held by TCCC or any of its subsidiaries, were converted into the right to receive 1.000 share of Company common stock (the "Stock Consideration"), and cash consideration of $10.00 (the "Cash Consideration" and which, together with the Stock Consideration, is the "Merger Consideration"), (ii) TCCC became the owner of all of the shares of Old CCE common stock and (iii) the Company became a public company, whose shares are owned by prior Old CCE shareowners other than TCCC and its subsidiaries.
Concurrently with the Merger, on October 2, 2010, the Company acquired TCCC's bottling operations in Norway and Sweden (the "Norway-Sweden Acquisition" and, together with the Merger and the Separation, the "Transaction"), pursuant to the Norway-Sweden Share Purchase Agreement dated as of March 20, 2010, (the "Norway-Sweden SPA") through the purchase of all of TCCC's right, title and interest in Coca-Cola Drikker AS and Coca-Cola Drycker Sverige AB for $822,000,000, plus approximately $44,000,000 required to be paid pursuant to the closing working capital adjustment.
The Company now owns what were previously Old CCE's European operations, its Canadian financing company, a related portion of Old CCE's corporate segment and TCCC's bottling operations in Norway and Sweden. The Company is now named Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. and its common stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CCE."
The Company financed the Cash Consideration and the Norway-Sweden Acquisition using a combination of existing cash, payments received from TCCC upon the effective time of the Merger, debt financing obtained in the public markets and commercial paper borrowings.
The descriptions herein of the Merger Agreement, Norway-Sweden SPA and the transactions contemplated thereby are not complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement and the Norway-Sweden SPA, which are incorporated by reference as Exhibit 2.1 (Business Separation and Merger Agreement), Exhibit 2.2 (Norway-Sweden Share Purchase Agreement) and Exhibit 2.3 (Amendment No. 1 to Business Separation and Merger Agreement).
 
The information set forth in Item 2.01 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Effective October 2, 2010, the Company changed its name from International CCE Inc. to Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. pursuant to a Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of International CCE Inc.
 
On October 3, 2010, the Company issued a press release relating to the completion of the Transactions, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
 
The required financial statements of the Company are filed as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3 and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
INTERNATIONAL CCE INC., a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
FIRST: That the Board of Directors of International CCE Inc. (the ""), at a meeting duly called and convened, adopted a resolution proposing and declaring advisable the following amendment (the "") to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation:
Corporation
Amendment
RESOLVED, that the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation be amended by changing Article FIRST thereof so that, from and after 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on October 2, 2010, said Article, as amended, shall be and read as follows:
"FIRST: The name of the corporation is Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc."
SECOND: That thereafter, pursuant to resolution of its Board of Directors, a special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation was duly called and held upon notice in accordance with Section 222 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware at which meeting the sole stockholder of the Company voted in favor of the amendment.
THIRD: That the Amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
FOURTH: That this Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of International CCE Inc. shall be effective as of 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on October 2, 2010.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this certificate to be signed by a duly authorized officer thereof as of this 1st day of October, 2010.
 
 
International CCE Inc. (the "Corporation"), a corporation organized and existing under the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended ("DGCL"), does hereby certify as follows:
1. The name of the Corporation is International CCE Inc. The Corporation was originally incorporated under the name International CCE Inc. The original certificate of incorporation of the Corporation was filed with the office of the Secretary of the State of Delaware on February 22, 2010.
2. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors") and by the stockholders of the Corporation in accordance with Sections 242 and 245 of the of the DGCL.
3. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation restates and integrates and further amends the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as heretofore amended and supplemented.
4. The Certificate of Incorporation is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
The name of the corporation is International CCE Inc.
FIRST:
The address of the Corporation's registered agent in the State of Delaware is Corporate Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware 19801. The name of the Corporation's registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
SECOND:
The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
THIRD:
FOURTH:
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIFTH:
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIXTH:
 
 
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation shall be effected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing of such stockholders.
SEVENTH:
 
In addition to any affirmative vote required by law, by this Certificate of Incorporation or by any Preferred Stock Designation:
EIGHTH:
 
 
shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of the Common Stock and any series of Preferred Stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding any other provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation or any provision of law or of any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote.
The Corporation reserves to the Board the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.
NINTH:
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has been executed on this 18th day of August, 2010.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Transition Services Agreement (this "") is by and between The Coca-Cola Company, a Delaware corporation ("TCCC"), and International CCE Inc., a Delaware corporation ("New CCE"), and is dated as of October 2, 2010.
TSA
WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Business Separation and Merger Agreement by and among Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ("CCE"), New CCE, TCCC and Cobalt Subsidiary LLC ("Merger Sub") dated as of the February 25, 2010, as amended (the ""), the parties have agreed to enter into this TSA;
Merger Agreement
WHEREAS, all capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Merger Agreement; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to this TSA, TCCC shall provide or cause to be provided certain services to the Other CCE Businesses, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises, the terms set forth herein and the Merger Agreement, as well as other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged and accepted, and intending to be legally bound hereby, each of TCCC and New CCE hereby agrees as follows:
1 - Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 - Consents
 
 
 
3 - Charges
 
 
 
4 - Term and Termination
 
 
 
 
 
5 - Confidentiality
 
6 - Service Separation, Migration & Related Costs
 
 
 
 
7 - Indemnification
 
8 - Miscellaneous
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this TSA as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
, made and entered into with effect from October 2, 2010, by and among THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America, with principal offices at One Coca-Cola Plaza, N.W., in the City of Atlanta, State of Georgia 30313, United States of America; THE COCA-COLA EXPORT CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America, with principal offices at One Coca-Cola Plaza, N.W., in the City of Atlanta, State of Georgia 30313, United States of America (The Coca-Cola Company and The Coca-Cola Export Corporation hereinafter collectively or severally referred to as the "Company" unless otherwise specified); and COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES LIMITED, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of England, with principal offices at Charter Place, Uxbridge, Middlesex UB8 1EZ, England (hereinafter referred to as the "Bottler").
THIS AGREEMENT
WHEREAS,
 
 
 
 
 
 
the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The covenants herein contained apply not only to the activities with which the Bottler may be directly concerned, but also to activities with which the Bottler may be indirectly concerned through ownership, control, management, partnership, agreement or otherwise, and whether located within or outside of the Territory.
 
 
 
 
then the Company shall have the right to terminate this Agreement forthwith without liability for damages unless the third party making such acquisition referred to in subclause (a) hereof or the person, firm or company referred to in subclause (b) hereof shall, on being notified in writing by the Company of its intention to terminate as aforesaid, agrees to discontinue, and shall in fact discontinue, the manufacture, preparation, packaging, distribution or sale of such product(s) within a reasonable period not exceeding six (6) months from the date of notification.
 
 
 
 
 
The Bottler shall permit the Company, its officers, agents or designees, at all times to enter and inspect the facilities, equipment and methods used by the Bottler, whether directly or incidentally, in or for the preparation, packaging, storage and handling of the Beverage to ascertain whether the Bottler is complying with the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to Clauses 17, 21 and 34. The Bottler also agrees to provide the Company with all the information regarding Bottler's compliance with the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, Clauses 17, 21 and 34, as the Company may request from time to time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Clause 27, if a proposed change in ownership or control of the Bottler involves a direct or indirect transfer to or acquisition of ownership or control of the Bottler, in whole or in part, by a person or entity authorized by the Company to manufacture, sell, distribute or otherwise deal in any beverage products and/or any Trade Marks of the Company (the "Acquiror Bottler"), the Company may request any and all information it considers relevant from both the Bottler and the Acquiror Bottler in order to make its determination as to whether to consent to such change. In any such circumstances, the parties hereto, recognizing and acknowledging the vested and legitimate interest of the Company in maintaining, promoting and safeguarding the overall performance, efficiency and integrity of the Company's international bottling, distribution and sales system, expressly agree that the Company may consider all and any factors, and apply any criteria that it considers relevant in making such determination.
It is further recognized and agreed among the parties hereto that the Company, in its sole discretion, may withhold consent to any proposed change in ownership or other transaction contemplated in this Clause 27, or may consent subject to such conditions as the Company, in its sole discretion, may determine. The parties hereto expressly stipulate and agree that any violation by the Bottler of the foregoing covenants contained in this Clause 27 shall entitle the Company to terminate this Agreement forthwith without liability for damages; and, furthermore, in view of the personal nature of this Agreement, that the Company shall have the right to terminate this Agreement without liability for damages if any other third party or parties should obtain any direct or indirect interest in the ownership or control of the Bottler, even when the Bottler had no means to prevent such a change, if, in the opinion of the Company, such change either enables such third party or parties to exercise a decisive influence over the management of the Bottler or materially alters the ability of the Bottler to comply fully with the terms, obligations and conditions of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event the Bottler is unable to perform its obligations as a consequence of any of the contingencies set forth in this Clause 30, and for the duration of such inability, the Company and Authorized Suppliers shall be relieved of their respective obligations under Clauses 2 and 5; and provided that, if any such failure by any party shall persist for a period of six (6) months or more, any of the parties hereto may terminate this Agreement without liability for damages.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, The Coca-Cola Company and The Coca-Cola Export Corporation in Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America, and the Bottler in Uxbridge, England, have caused these presents to be executed in triplicate by the duly authorized person or persons on their behalf on the dates indicated below.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
October 2, 2010, 12:01 a.m.
International CCE Inc.
(to be renamed Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc.)
2500 Windy Ridge Parkway
Atlanta, GA 30339
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned parties desire to continue to implement a commercial understanding relating to certain brands of The Coca-Cola Company ("TCCC") as in effect at this time and intend to operate in accordance therewith with respect to the European countries of International CCE Inc. (to be renamed Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. ("New CCE")) until December 31, 2015. To that end, the undersigned parties hereby jointly agree to continue the parameters of their commercial understanding (the "Parameters") as specified on or promptly after the date of the closing under the Business Separation and Merger Agreement, by and among Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., International CCE Inc., Cobalt Subsidiary LLC and TCCC, dated as of February 25, 2010.
This intent to maintain the operation of the Parameters is based on a joint long-term growth strategy, in volume and revenue, translated into annual business plans. To achieve the joint objectives TCCC will invest in relevant Consumer Marketing programs and New CCE will support the growth through capital expenditures, investment in Sales Forces in Grocery and AFH channels, investment in Customer Marketing, efficient Route to Market and superior Customer Service.
TCCC will continue to contribute to New CCE's investments an amount of marketing funding per annum equal to that of 2010. The marketing funding pool that is on a per case basis will continue to be on a per case basis. The marketing funding pool that is a specific amount will continue at this amount.
In this regard, until the end of 2015, TCCC will pay to New CCE the amount of $45 million annually as funding support for marketing activities for products of TCCC. Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, TCCC's payments hereunder shall be made to New CCE via wire transfer to New CCE's Atlanta, Georgia headquarters and shall be paid in quarterly installments of $11.25 million each, payable on or before the 15th day of the second month of each successive quarter (for example, for the fourth quarter 2010, the quarterly payments will be made on or before November 15, 2010). Amounts paid are for the activities performed during the quarter and are not refundable except in case of breach of this agreement.
 
The marketing activities to be funded hereunder will be proposed by New CCE to TCCC no later than November 30 of each year as part of the annual joint planning process between the parties. The proposed activities shall be incorporated into the annual marketing plans, shall be for the benefit of brands owned by or licensed to TCCC (and not for cross-franchised brands), and shall be subject to the prior approval of TCCC, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The parties agree that New CCE's failure to timely complete the marketing plans, or New CCE's inability to execute the elements of those plans, except where such failure is for reasons beyond New CCE's reasonable control, constitutes sufficient cause for TCCC to terminate this agreement for the balance of the year covered by the plans. This termination by TCCC will not be pursued where New CCE's failure is the result of TCCC's failure to deliver agreed elements of the plans.
The parties will maintain this in force until the end of 2015 except in the case of significant unforeseen external circumstances, or if there is a significant change to the agreed strategy by one party that was not agreed to by the other party.
The provisions related to funding for marketing activities for a specific amount each year (but, for the avoidance of doubt, not including the provisions relating to the marketing funding pool that is on a per case basis) shall be automatically extended for successive ten-year periods unless either party gives written notice of termination of this agreement no less than six months prior to the end of 2015 or six months prior to the end of each successive ten-year period, respectively. This agreement may be terminated for cause by TCCC.
For the purpose of clarity, TCCC and New CCE expressly reserve and do not waive any rights under applicable Bottling Agreements or any other contract or agreement nor should this understanding act to encumber or supersede the relevant Bottling Agreements. This letter is acknowledged to be strictly confidential and the contents are not to be shared with any other party without the express written consent of the other party except that either party may make any public disclosure that it believes to be required by applicable law or by any listing or trading agreement concerning its public securities, in which case the party making the disclosure will advise the other party of the disclosure.
 
 
Agreed to and accepted
as of the date first above written:
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
International CCE Inc.
2500 Windy Hill Parkway
Atlanta, Georgia 30339
Gentlemen:
Reference is made to the Bottler's Agreements and Distributor's Agreements entered into among The Coca-Cola Company, The Coca-Cola Export Corporation and your European Subsidiaries with an effective date of October 2, 2010 (hereinafter referred to as the "Agreement").
We hereby authorize you to use the trademark COCA-COLA in your corporate name: "COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES, INC." and in the names of your subsidiaries listed below that are not party to the Agreements:
Belgium
Coca-Cola Enterprises Services bvba/sprl
IPV Coca-Cola Enterprises Belgium/Coca-Cola Enterprises Services Kaderleden
IRP Coca-Cola Enterprises Belgium/Coca-Cola Enterprises Services Cadres
IRP Coca-Cola Enterprises Belgium/Coca-Cola Enterprises Services Employs-Ouvriers
Luxembourg
Coca-Cola Enterprises Finance ST1 Commandite SCA
Coca-Cola Enterprises Finance LT1 Commandite SCA
Coca-Cola Enterprises Finance LT2 Commandite SCA
France
Coca-Cola Immobilier SC1
Great Britain
Coca-Cola Enterprises UK Limited
Coca-Cola Enterprises Great Britain Limited
Coca-Cola Enterprises Europe Limited
Coca-Cola Enterprises Pension Scheme Trustee Ltd.
Canada
Coca-Cola Enterprises (Canada) Bottling Finance Co.
The authorization granted herein will expire automatically upon expiration or termination of the Agreements, and is revocable by us in our absolute discretion, in whole or in part, upon ninety (90) days' written notice. Upon expiration or termination of the Agreement or revocation of this Authorization, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. and the above named entities shall take any and all affirmative steps to delete "Coca-Cola" from their respective corporate name and to amend any other reference to "Coca-Cola" in any and all statements or documents including government licenses, registrations or any other records.
Nothing contained herein shall give you any interest in the goodwill derived from the use of the trademark COCA-COLA in your corporate name. It is hereby expressly agreed and understood that there is extended only a permission uncoupled with any interest to use the trademark COCA-COLA, and that we retain the sole and exclusive right to initiate and defend any or all proceedings and actions relating to such trademark.
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
This Tax Sharing Agreement (the "") is entered into as of February 25, 2010 by and among Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), International CCE, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and The Coca-Cola Company, a Delaware corporation ("" and together with CCE and Splitco, each a "" and collectively, the ""). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Business Separation and Merger Agreement, dated as of February 25, 2010, between CCE, Splitco, TCCC and Cobalt Subsidiary LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "").
Agreement
CCE
Splitco
TCCC
Party
Parties
Merger Agreement
WHEREAS, CCE is the common parent corporation of an affiliated group of corporations, within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code, that has filed consolidated federal income Tax Returns;
WHEREAS, Splitco is a wholly-owned subsidiary of CCE;
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to (i) restructure CCE's businesses so that all equity interests directly or indirectly owned by it in entities engaged in businesses other than the North American Business (the "") shall be owned, directly or indirectly, by Splitco, and (ii) convert all shares of CCE Common Stock, except for any such shares owned by TCCC or CCE, into shares of Splitco Common Stock and cash;
Other CCE Businesses
WHEREAS, the Parties intend that the conversion of shares of CCE Common Stock at the Effective Time pursuant to the Merger will qualify under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code (except as provided in Section 356(b) of the Code); and
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to set forth their rights and obligations with respect to Taxes due for periods before and after the Closing Date.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth herein, as well as other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged and accepted, and intending to be legally bound hereby, each of CCE, Splitco and TCCC hereby agrees as follows:
1.01 GENERAL. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
Agreement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.02.
Claim
"" and "" shall have the meanings set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Closing
Closing Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
TCCC
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
TCCC Filed Tax Return
"" shall mean the written opinion (or opinions) of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, to the effect that the distribution of Enterprises KOC Acquisition Company ("Canadian Holdco") to Bottling Holdings (International) Inc. ("BHI") will qualify under Section 355 of the Code, the merger of
TCCC Tax Opinion
 
BHI with and into CCE (or with and into a limited liability company wholly owned by, and treated for United States federal income Tax purposes as an entity disregarded from, CCE) will qualify under Section 332 of the Code, the transfers to Splitco will qualify under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, and the conversion of shares of CCE Common Stock at the Effective Time will qualify under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code (except as provided in Section 356(b) of the Code).
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(a).
TCCC Taxes
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
CCE
"" shall mean (i) CCE and each of its Subsidiaries immediately following the Effective Time and (ii) each Person that becomes a Subsidiary of CCE after the Effective Time.
CCE
Group
"" shall mean the aggregate of (i) 35% of CCE's and each of its Subsidiaries' United States federal income tax net operating loss carryovers, and charitable contribution carryovers, and (ii) CCE's and each of its Subsidiaries' United States federal income tax carryovers of alternative minimum tax credits, foreign tax credits, general business credits, and jobs credits, in each case determined as of immediately following the end of the Closing Date (taking into account any increase or reduction in such CCE Tax Benefits pursuant to a Final Determination); , , that with respect to any taxable period not ending at the end of the Closing Date, the CCE Tax Benefits shall be calculated as if such taxable period ended at the end of the Closing Date.
CCE Tax Benefits
provided
however
"" shall mean the written opinion (or opinions) of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, to the effect that the distribution of Canadian Holdco to BHI will qualify under Section 355 of the Code, the merger of BHI with and into CCE (or with and into a limited liability company wholly owned by, and treated for United States federal income Tax purposes as an entity disregarded from, CCE) will qualify under Section 332 of the Code, the transfers to Splitco will qualify under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, and the conversion of shares of CCE Common Stock at the Effective Time will qualify under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code (except as provided in Section 356(b) of the Code).
CCE Tax Opinion
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.01.
Dispute
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(d).
Employee Benefit Tax Item
"" shall mean a determination within the meaning of Section 1313 of the Code or any similar provision of state or local Tax Law or any other event (including the execution of a Form 870-AD or any other form having substantially the same effect for purposes of any Tax Law) that finally and conclusively establishes the amount of any liability for Tax.
Final Determination
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.02.
Indemnified Party
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.02.
Indemnifying Party
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
Merger Agreement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
Parties
"" shall mean any taxable year or other taxable period beginning after the Closing Date and, in the case of any taxable year or other taxable period that begins on or before and ends after the Closing Date, that part of the taxable year or other taxable period that begins at the beginning of the day after the Closing Date.
Post-Closing Period
"" shall mean any taxable year or other taxable period that ends on or before the Closing Date and, in the case of any taxable year or other taxable period that begins on or before and ends after the Closing Date, that part of the taxable year or other taxable period through the close of the Closing Date.
Pre-Closing Period
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(a).
Private Letter Ruling
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.02.
Prohibited Acts
 
"" means a transaction or series of related transactions (or any agreement, understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations, within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, to enter into a transaction or series of related transactions), as a result of which Splitco or CCE, which for purposes of this definition shall be referred to as the "relevant corporation" (or any successor thereto) would merge or consolidate with any other Person or as a result of which any Person or any group of Persons would (directly or indirectly) acquire, or have the right to acquire (through an option or otherwise) any amount of stock of the relevant corporation, that would, when combined with any other changes in ownership of the stock of the relevant corporation pertinent for purposes of Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, comprise more than forty percent (40%) of the value of all outstanding stock of the relevant corporation as of the date of such transaction, or in the case of a series of transactions, the date of the last transaction of such series. For purposes of determining whether a transaction constitutes an indirect acquisition for purposes of the first sentence of this definition, any recapitalization resulting in a shift of voting power or any redemption of shares of stock (including any redemption of equity of the relevant corporation pursuant to the exception in Section 3.02(iii)) shall be treated as an indirect acquisition of stock by the non-exchanging shareholders. This definition and the application thereof is intended to monitor compliance with Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder and shall be interpreted accordingly by the Parties in good faith; , , that this definition shall not be interpreted in any way that will prevent or limit any issuance, disposition, redemption or other transaction with respect to TCCC stock.
Proposed Acquisition Transaction
provided
however
"" shall mean the request for the Private Letter Ruling to be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service, including the exhibits attached thereto, and all related supplements.
Ruling Request
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement; , , that for purposes of this Agreement, the transactions described in Paragraph 9 of Schedule A of the Merger Agreement are Separation Transactions.
Separation Transactions
provided
however
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
Splitco
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(b).
Splitco Filed Tax Return
"" shall mean (i) Splitco and each of its Subsidiaries immediately following the Effective Time and (ii) each Person that becomes a Subsidiary of Splitco after the Effective Time.
Splitco Group
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(b).
Splitco Taxes
"" shall mean any taxable year or other taxable period that begins on or before and ends after the Closing Date.
Straddle Period
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.01.
Tax Arbitrator
"" shall mean the Tax effect of any item of loss, deduction or credit or any other item that decreases Taxes paid or payable.
Tax Benefit
"" shall mean certificates of officers of TCCC, CCE and Splitco, provided to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP in connection with the Tax Opinions.
Tax Certificates
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.01.
Tax Contest
"" shall mean any information required in order to prepare and file any Tax Return.
Tax Information Packages
"" shall mean (A) the Private Letter Ruling, (B) the Tax Opinions, (C) the Ruling Request, (D) the Tax Certificates and (E) any other materials delivered or deliverable in connection with the issuance of the Private Letter Ruling or the rendering of the Tax Opinions.
Tax Materials
"" shall mean the TCCC Tax Opinion and the CCE Tax Opinion.
Tax Opinions
 
"" shall mean any return, report, certificate, form or similar statement or document (including any related supporting information or schedule attached thereto and any information return, amended Tax return, claim for refund or declaration of estimated Tax) required to be supplied to, or filed with, a Governmental Entity, or any bill for or notice related to ad valorem or other similar Taxes received from a Governmental Entity, in each case, in connection with the determination, assessment or collection of any Tax or the administration of any laws, regulations or administrative requirements relating to any Tax.
Tax Return
"" shall mean any Governmental Entity having jurisdiction over the assessment, determination, collection or imposition of any Tax.
Taxing Authority
1.02 INTERPRETATION. For all purposes of this Agreement: (i) the terms defined in this Agreement include the plural as well as the singular; (ii) all references in this Agreement to "Preamble", "Recitals", "Articles", "Sections" and other subdivisions are to the designated preamble, recitals, articles, sections and other subdivisions of the body of this Agreement; (iii) pronouns of either gender or neuter include, as appropriate, the other pronoun forms; (iv) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; (v) "or" is not exclusive; (vi) "including" shall be deemed to be followed by "but not limited to"; and (vii) any definition of or reference to any statute shall be construed as referring also to any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
2.01 OBLIGATIONS TO FILE TAX RETURNS.
(a) TCCC shall have the sole and exclusive responsibility for the preparation and filing of each Tax Return filed after the Closing Date for any Post-Closing Period or Straddle Period that includes any member of the CCE Group (each, a ""); , , that, except as otherwise required by Law, (w) all TCCC Filed Tax Returns shall be prepared on a basis that is consistent with the Tax Materials and, with respect to TCCC Filed Tax Returns for Straddle Periods, except as provided in Section 3.03, consistent with past practices of CCE, (x) Splitco shall prepare and deliver to TCCC in a manner consistent with past practices of CCE and its Subsidiaries, except as provided in Section 3.03, pro forma Tax Returns and Tax Information Packages with respect to each member of the Splitco Group or portion of the Other CCE Businesses included in, or reflected on, a TCCC Filed Tax Return, no later than ninety (90) days before the due date for the filing of the relevant Tax Return (including any valid extensions), (y) TCCC shall provide to Splitco no later than thirty (30) days in advance of the due date for the filing thereof (including any valid extensions), and Splitco shall have a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on, any such TCCC Filed Tax Return (or the relevant portion thereof) to the extent that (I) such TCCC Filed Tax Return includes any member of the Splitco Group, or (II) Splitco is responsible for any portion of the Taxes reported on such TCCC Filed Tax Return, and (z) TCCC shall not take any position on any TCCC Filed Tax Return that includes any member of the Splitco Group that (I) would reasonably be expected to result in a "listed transaction" within the meaning of Section 6707A(c)(2) of the Code or any comparable provision of state, local or foreign Tax Law, (II) would reasonably be expected to result in penalties under any applicable Tax Law, or (III) would reasonably be expected to require disclosure under Section 6664 of the Code or any comparable provision of state, local or foreign Tax Law in order to avoid penalties, all without Splitco's prior written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Except as otherwise provided herein (including as provided in Sections 5.03 and 5.04), TCCC shall have the exclusive right to file, prosecute, compromise or settle any claim for, or refund of, Taxes in respect of a TCCC Filed Tax Return for which TCCC bears responsibility hereunder.
TCCC
Filed Tax Return
provided
however
(b) Splitco shall have the sole and exclusive responsibility for the preparation and filing of (i) each Tax Return that is required to be filed after the Closing Date that includes (A) any member of the Splitco Group, or (B) any assets or operations of the Other CCE Businesses, that, in each case, is not a TCCC Filed Tax Return and (ii) Tax Returns required to be filed for any Pre-Closing Period that is not a Straddle Period that include any member of the CCE Group (each, a ""); , , that, except as otherwise
Splitco Filed Tax Return
provided
however
 
required by Law, (w) all Splitco Filed Tax Returns shall be prepared on a basis that is consistent with the Tax Materials and, with respect to Splitco Filed Tax Returns for Pre-Closing Periods and Straddle Periods, except as provided in Section 3.03, consistent with past practices of CCE, (x) TCCC shall prepare and deliver to Splitco in a manner consistent with past practices of CCE and its Subsidiaries, except as provided in Section 3.03, pro forma Tax Returns and Tax Information Packages with respect to each member of the CCE Group or portion of the North American Business included in, or reflected on, a Splitco Filed Tax Return, no later than ninety (90) days before the due date for the filing of the relevant Tax Return (including any valid extensions), (y) Splitco shall provide to TCCC no later than thirty (30) days in advance of the due date for the filing thereof (including any valid extensions), and TCCC shall have a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on, any such Splitco Filed Tax Return (or the relevant portion thereof) to the extent that (I) such Splitco Filed Tax Return includes any member of the CCE Group, or (II) TCCC is responsible for any portion of the Taxes reported on such Splitco Filed Tax Return, and (z) Splitco shall not take any position on any Splitco Filed Tax Return that includes any member of the CCE Group that (I) would reasonably be expected to result in a "listed transaction" within the meaning of Section 6707A(c)(2) of the Code or any comparable provision of state, local or foreign Tax Law, (II) would reasonably be expected to result in penalties under any applicable Tax Law, or (III) would reasonably be expected to require disclosure under Section 6664 of the Code or any comparable provision of state, local or foreign Tax Law in order to avoid penalties, all without TCCC's prior written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Except as otherwise provided herein (including as provided in Sections 5.02 and 5.04), Splitco shall have the exclusive right to file, prosecute, compromise or settle any claim for, or refund of, taxes in respect of a Splitco Filed Tax Return for which Splitco bears responsibility hereunder.
2.02 OBLIGATION TO REMIT TAXES. Subject to Section 2.01 and subject to the ultimate division of responsibility for Taxes set out in Section 2.03, the CCE Group and the Splitco Group shall each remit or cause to be remitted to the applicable Governmental Entity in a timely manner any Taxes due in respect of any Tax Return that such Party is required to file (or, in the case of a Tax for which no Tax Return is required to be filed, which is otherwise payable by such Party or a member of such Party's group to any Governmental Entity). In the case of any TCCC Filed Tax Return or Splitco Filed Tax Return, for which the Party not required to file such Tax Return is obligated under this Agreement to pay all or a portion of the Taxes reported as due on such Tax Return, the Party filing such Tax Return shall notify the other Party, in writing, of its obligation to pay such Taxes and the Party receiving such notice shall pay such amount to the Party filing such Tax Return in accordance with the notice and payment provisions contained in ARTICLE IV.
2.03 TAX SHARING OBLIGATIONS AND PRIOR AGREEMENTS.
(a) Except as provided in Section 4.01, TCCC and the members of the CCE Group shall be responsible for the payment of (and shall be entitled to any refund of, whether received in cash or applied against future Tax obligations) (i) all Taxes for any Post-Closing Period attributable to any member of the CCE Group or the North American Business, other than (A) Taxes arising as a result of the Separation Transactions (including the Merger), or any transaction incidental thereto entered into for the purpose of effecting the Separation Transactions, as mutually agreed by the Parties, except to the extent such Taxes are described in clause (ii) or arise as a result of any breach of any covenant or any other obligation contained in the Tax Materials or this Agreement or the Merger Agreement by TCCC or any of its Subsidiaries or, following the Effective Time, any member of the CCE Group, and (ii) 50% of any Taxes arising as a result of the Merger not qualifying under Section 355 of the Code, to the extent such Taxes do not arise as a result of any breach of any covenant or any other obligation contained in the Tax Materials or this Agreement by TCCC, Splitco or any of their Subsidiaries (collectively, the "").
TCCC
Taxes
(b) Except as provided in Section 4.01, Splitco and the members of the Splitco Group shall be responsible for the payment of (and shall be entitled to any refund of, whether received in cash or applied against future Tax obligations) (i) all Taxes attributable to any member of the Splitco Group or the Other CCE Businesses, (ii) all Taxes for any Pre-Closing Period attributable to any member of the CCE Group or the North American Business, (iii) 50% of any Taxes arising as a result of the Merger not qualifying under Section 355 of the Code, to the
 
extent such Taxes do no arise as a result of any breach of any covenant or any other obligation contained in the Tax Materials or this Agreement by TCCC, Splitco or any of their Subsidiaries, and (iv) the Taxes described in Section 2.03(a)(i)(A) (collectively, the "").
Splitco Taxes
(c) In order to apportion appropriately any Taxes relating to a tax period that would otherwise be a Straddle Period between the portion of such period ending as of the end of the Closing Date and the portion of such period beginning after the Closing Date, the Parties shall, to the extent permitted under applicable Law, elect with the relevant Governmental Entity to treat for all Tax purposes the Closing Date as the last day of a taxable year (in which case such period will not be a Straddle Period). In the case of any Taxes for a Straddle Period for which such election to close the taxable year is not permitted, the portion of such Taxes that is allocable to the portion of the Straddle Period ending as of the end of the Closing Date shall be: (i) in the case of ad valorem or similar Taxes that are imposed on a periodic basis, an amount equal to the amount of such Taxes for the entire period multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days in the Straddle Period prior to and including the Closing Date and the denominator of which is the number of days in the entire relevant Straddle Period, and (ii) in the case of Taxes not described in (i) (such as Taxes that are either (A) based upon or related to income or receipts, or (B) imposed in connection with any sale or other transfer or assignment of property (real or personal, tangible or intangible)), deemed equal to the amount that would be payable if the Taxable Year ended on and included the Closing Date. Any income, deductions, gains or losses recognized on transactions not in the ordinary course of business on or prior to the Effective Time will be allocated to the Pre-Closing Period, and any income, deductions, gains or losses recognized on any transactions not in the ordinary course of business after the Effective Time (including after the Effective Time but on the Closing Date) will be allocated to the Post-Closing Period.
(d) Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary contained herein, in the Merger Agreement or in any Ancillary Agreement, the Parties agree to allocate the Tax Benefits resulting from the employee benefit items set forth on Schedule 2.03(d) ("") in accordance therewith. Unless and until there has been a Final Determination to the contrary or a change in Law as a result of which there is not substantial authority in support of such allocation, each Party agrees not to take any position on any Tax Return, in connection with any Tax Contest or otherwise that is inconsistent with the allocation of Employee Benefit Tax Items between the CCE Group and the Splitco Group as set forth in this Section 2.03(d). To the extent that the Party entitled under applicable Law to an Employee Benefit Tax Item is determined, pursuant to a Final Determination or a change in Law as a result of which there is not substantial authority in support of the agreed allocation as provided in Schedule 2.03(d), to be other than the Party entitled to such Employee Benefit Tax Item under Schedule 2.03(d), the Party entitled to such Employee Benefit Tax Item under applicable Law shall pay the other Party the amount of any Tax Benefit actually realized with respect to such Employee Benefit Tax Item within thirty (30) days following the filing date of a Tax Return which reflects the realization of such Tax Benefit item.
Employee Benefit Tax Items
(e) Except as set forth in this Agreement and in consideration of the mutual indemnities and other obligations in this Agreement, (i) any and all prior Tax sharing or allocation agreements or practices between any member of the CCE Group, on one hand, and any member of the Splitco Group, on the other hand, shall be terminated as of or before the Effective Time, and no member of one group shall have any continuing rights or obligations thereunder with respect to any member of the other group and (ii) any and all powers of attorney with respect to any member of the CCE Group shall be terminated as of or before the Effective Time, and no member of the CCE Group shall have any continuing obligations thereunder.
2.04 AMENDED RETURNS.
(a) Splitco shall not, and shall not permit any member of the Splitco Group, to file any amended Tax Return that includes any member of the CCE Group or any of the assets or operations of the North American Business for any taxable period without the consent of TCCC, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed; , , that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Splitco and all members of the Splitco
provided
however
 
Group shall be permitted to file any amended Tax Return required to be filed for purposes of implementing the actions permitted under Paragraph I(B) of Schedule 3.03 or in order to reduce, eliminate or offset any additional income or Taxes resulting from such permitted actions. TCCC shall provide a response to a request for such consent from Splitco within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Receipt of consent by Splitco or a member of the Splitco Group from TCCC under the provisions of this Section 2.04(a) shall not limit or modify Splitco's continuing indemnification obligation under Section 4.01(b).
(b) TCCC shall not, and shall not permit any member of the CCE Group, to file any amended Tax Return that includes (i) any member of the Splitco Group or any of the assets or operations of the Other CCE Businesses for any taxable period or (ii) any member of the CCE Group or any of the assets or operations of the North American Business for any Pre-Closing Period or any Straddle Period, in each case without the consent of Splitco, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Splitco shall provide a response to a request for such consent from TCCC within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Receipt of consent by TCCC or a member of the CCE Group from Splitco under the provisions of this Section 2.04(b) shall not limit or modify CCE's continuing indemnification obligation under Section 4.01(a).
2.05 TRANSFER TAXES. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, all documentary, sales, use, registration, value added, transfer, stamp and similar Taxes incurred in connection with the transactions described in the first sentence of Paragraph 3, and in Paragraph 9 of Schedule A of the Merger Agreement (collectively, "") shall be borne 50% by TCCC and its subsidiaries following the Effective Time and 50% by Splitco and its subsidiaries following the Effective Time. The Party required by Law to file any Tax Returns with respect to any such Transfer Taxes shall prepare and file such Tax Returns and pay such Transfer Taxes to the appropriate Taxing Authority. TCCC (or any of its Subsidiaries following the Effective Time) shall pay by wire transfer to Splitco and Splitco (or any of its Subsidiaries following the Effective Time) shall pay by wire transfer to TCCC the payor's share of the Transfer Taxes which are payable with Tax Returns to be filed by the other Party (or any of its Subsidiaries following the Effective Time) at least three days prior to the due date for the payment of such Transfer Taxes.
Transfer Taxes
3.01 PRIVATE LETTER RULING AND TAX OPINIONS.
(a) The Parties shall, and shall cause their Subsidiaries to, use their reasonable best efforts to obtain a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, in form and substance satisfactory to TCCC, CCE and Splitco, to the effect, among other things, that the distribution of Canadian Holdco to BHI will qualify under Section 355 of the Code, the merger of BHI with and into CCE (or with and into a limited liability company wholly owned by, and treated for United States federal income Tax purposes as an entity disregarded from, CCE) will qualify under Section 332 of the Code, the transfers to Splitco will qualify under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, and the conversion of shares of CCE Common Stock at the Effective Time pursuant to the Merger will qualify under Sections 355 and 361of the Code (except as provided in Section 356(b) of the Code) (the ""), as soon as practicable after the date of this Agreement. The Parties shall cooperate in good faith in determining any additional issues or matters required to be addressed by the Private Letter Ruling. CCE shall be responsible in the first instance for the preparation and filing of the Ruling Request and all related correspondence, provided, however, that no submissions shall be submitted without TCCC's approval, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. CCE and TCCC shall use their reasonable best efforts to assure that the Ruling Request is filed with the Internal Revenue Service not later than 30 days after public announcement of the proposed transaction. TCCC shall be provided drafts of all submissions a reasonable period in advance of submission, to review, comment upon and approve, materials prepared by CCE. The filing Party shall provide the other Party copies of the Ruling Request and all other memoranda, correspondence or other submissions as filed with the Internal Revenue Service promptly following the filing thereof. Each of CCE and TCCC shall have the right to participate fully in the process of obtaining the Private Letter Ruling, including
Private Letter Ruling
 
attending meetings and participating in conference calls with the Internal Revenue Service. Each of CCE and TCCC shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its respective Affiliates, employees, accountants, counsel and other representatives to cooperate with the other Party and its representatives in obtaining the Private Letter Ruling, including by (i) participating in meetings and conference calls with the Internal Revenue Service, (ii) assisting in the preparation of all memoranda, ruling requests, correspondence and other submissions that are deemed reasonably necessary or desirable by either Party in connection with obtaining the Private Letter Ruling, (iii) executing and delivering customary documents and instruments (such as penalties of perjury statements) that are deemed reasonably necessary by either Party in connection with obtaining the Private Letter Ruling, and (iv) taking other actions reasonably necessary in connection with obtaining the Private Letter Ruling.
(b) Each of the Parties shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the Tax Opinions. In connection with the foregoing, each of the Parties shall (i) furnish its respective Tax Certificate (or Tax Certificates) to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Cahill Gordon & Reindel on a timely basis, executed by an authorized officer of such Party, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Cahill Gordon & Reindel and (ii) otherwise cooperate in connection with obtaining the Tax Opinions.
LLP
LLP
(c) From and after the date of this Agreement, each of the Parties agrees that it shall (i) effect the Separation Transactions (including the Merger), or any transaction incidental thereto entered into for the purpose of effecting the Separation Transactions, as mutually agreed by the Parties, in a manner that is consistent with the Tax Materials, (ii) comply with, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to comply with, the representations made in connection with the Private Letter Ruling, the Tax Opinions, and the Tax Certificates, and not take, or fail to take, and prevent any of its Subsidiaries from taking, or failing to take, any action, which action or failure to act would be likely to, or does invalidate, directly or indirectly, any of the conclusions contained in the Private Letter Ruling or the Tax Opinions whether or not such action or failure to act is otherwise permitted pursuant to this Agreement and (iii) not take or fail to take, and prevent any of its Subsidiaries from taking, or failing to take, any action, which action or failure to act is inconsistent with any representation, statement or covenant made in the Private Letter Ruling, its respective Tax Certificate, or in connection with the Private Letter Ruling or the Tax Opinions.
3.02 OPINION OR PRIVATE LETTER RULING REQUIREMENT FOR MAJOR TRANSACTIONS. TCCC (on behalf of itself and all members of the CCE Group) and Splitco (on behalf of itself and all members of the Splitco Group) hereby covenant and agree that no member of the CCE Group or the Splitco Group, respectively, will take or permit to be taken within two (2) years of the Effective Time the following actions: (i) any Proposed Acquisition Transaction or approval of any Proposed Acquisition Transaction for any purpose; (ii) the issuance of any CCE equity or Splitco equity, respectively, or rights to acquire any CCE or Splitco equity (other than (A) any such issuance qualifying under Treasury Regulations Section 1.355-7(d)(8) in connection with the performance of services, or (B) any issuances which, in the aggregate, would not result in a Proposed Acquisition Transaction); (iii) redemptions or repurchases of any CCE equity or Splitco equity, respectively (except to the extent consistent with the requirements of Rev. Proc. 96-30, 1996-1 C.B. 696, and statements made with respect thereto in the Ruling Request and the Private Letter Ruling); (iv) recapitalizations or other dispositions of, or modifications to the terms of, any CCE equity or Splitco equity, respectively; (v) any liquidation of CCE or Splitco, respectively (including any transaction treated as a liquidation of CCE or Splitco for federal income tax purposes); (vi) any sale of all or substantially all of CCE's assets or Splitco's assets, respectively, in a single transaction or series of related transactions; (vii) the disposition or discontinuance of the operation of any active trade or business assets except in the ordinary course of business; (viii) any conversion of CCE or Splitco, respectively, to a foreign corporation (including, for proposes of clarification, any formation of a foreign holding corporation); and (ix) any actions or positions inconsistent with any representation or covenant contained in Section 3.01 or Section 6.02 of this Agreement, and no member of the CCE Group or Splitco Group will take or permit to be taken any action at any time that could jeopardize, directly or indirectly, any of the conclusions contained in the Private Letter Ruling or the Tax Opinions (collectively, the ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, CCE or Splitco or a member of the CCE Group or Splitco Group may take any of
Prohibited Acts
 
the Prohibited Acts if it obtains (1) the written consent of the other Parties, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, or (2) (a) an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the other Parties, that the taking of such action will not adversely affect, directly or indirectly, any of the conclusions contained in the Private Letter Ruling or the Tax Opinions, or (b) a supplemental ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the taking of such action will not adversely affect, directly or indirectly, any of the conclusions contained in the Private Letter Ruling, , , that no request for a supplemental ruling shall be made prior to obtaining the other Parties' consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, and that the other Parties shall have the right to participate in the preparation of all material correspondence, calls, meetings and similar events related to obtaining such supplemental ruling. Each requested Party shall provide a response to a request for consent under the provisions of this Section 3.02 within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Receipt of consent under the provisions of this Section 3.02 shall not limit or modify the recipient's continuing indemnification obligation under Section 4.01. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the provisions of this Section 3.02 shall not be interpreted in any way that will prevent or limit any issuance, disposition, redemption or other transaction with respect to TCCC stock.
provided
however
3.03 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
(a) Splitco (on behalf of itself and all members of the Splitco Group and, with respect to periods on or prior to the Effective Time, all members of the CCE Group) covenants and agrees that subject to TCCC's consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, (i) except as expressly contemplated by the terms of this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or Schedule 3.03, neither Splitco nor any member of the Splitco Group nor, on or prior to the Effective Time, any member of the CCE group, will (A) make, change or rescind any material Tax election, or (B) make, change or rescind any material method of accounting, (ii) neither Splitco nor any member of the Splitco Group nor, on or prior to the Effective Time, any member of the CCE Group, will take any action (including making any Tax election) specifically listed on Schedule 3.03 as a prohibited action, and (iii) Splitco shall, or shall cause the members of the Splitco Group or, on or prior to the Effective Time, the members of the CCE Group to take the actions (including Tax elections) specifically listed on Schedule 3.03 as actions required to be taken by Splitco; , , that TCCC shall consent to any action or failure to act that is inconsistent with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) to the extent that (I) the benefit of such action or failure to act to Splitco and the members of the Splitco Group is greater than the detriment of such action or failure to act to TCCC and the CCE Group, and (II) Splitco agrees to indemnify TCCC for any such detriment. Nothing herein shall limit any action permitted under the Merger Agreement (except for actions specifically prohibited under this Section 3.03(a)), however, in the event that Splitco or any member of the Splitco Group or, on or prior to the Effective Time, any member of the CCE Group takes or fails to take any action, outside the ordinary course of business or otherwise inconsistent with past practice, that has the effect of increasing, reducing, accelerating or deferring income or deductions or other Tax attributes (a ""), except as specifically listed on Schedule 3.03, Splitco agrees to indemnify TCCC for any net Tax detriment arising from such Timing Tax Impact.
provided
however
Timing Tax Impact
(b) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Splitco shall be allowed to utilize any Tax attributes generated under state or Canadian Tax Law in order to minimize Splitco Taxes imposed as a result of the Separation Transactions or of any transaction incidental thereto entered into for the purpose of effecting the Separation Transactions, as mutually agreed by the Parties.
(c) Except as expressly contemplated by the terms of this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or Schedule 3.03, or with the consent of Splitco, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, TCCC will not cause or permit CCE or any member of the CCE Group to take (or fail to take) any action on the Closing Date after the Effective Time which action (or failure) is not in the ordinary course of business.
 
4.01 INDEMNITY OBLIGATIONS.
(a) Notwithstanding whether any action is permitted or consented to hereunder, TCCC shall indemnify and hold harmless Splitco and its Affiliates (including any member of the Splitco Group) from and against, and will reimburse Splitco for (without duplication) (i) all TCCC Taxes, and (ii) all Taxes and Losses by reason of or arising from any breach by TCCC or (after the Effective Time) any member of the CCE Group of any representation, covenant or obligation under this Agreement or Section 5.10 of the Merger Agreement.
(b) Notwithstanding whether any action is permitted or consented to hereunder, Splitco shall indemnify and hold harmless TCCC and its Affiliates (including any member of the CCE Group) from and against, and will reimburse TCCC for (without duplication) (i) all Splitco Taxes, (ii) all Taxes and Losses by reason of or arising from any breach by any member of the CCE Group (on or prior to the Effective Time) or the Splitco Group of any representation, covenant or obligation under this Agreement, or Sections 4.15 and 6.1(o) of the Merger Agreement (including any reduction in any item of CCE Tax Benefits by reason of or arising from any breach of any covenant or obligation of CCE or Splitco under Section 3.03), and (iii) the excess of $292,000,000 over the CCE Tax Benefits actually available to the CCE Group immediately following the Closing Date, as ultimately determined for U.S. federal income Tax purposes, taking into account any increase or decrease in the amount of such CCE Tax Benefits after the Closing Date.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the Merger Agreement to the contrary, any indemnification under this Agreement shall not be subject to any (i) limitation under the Merger Agreement or any other agreement, including any Basket or Cap, (ii) offset or reduction for any CCE Tax Benefits in excess of $292,000,000 (except as provided in Section 4.05), (iii) offset or reduction for any Tax items reflected on the Closing Balance Sheet or any other balance sheet of CCE or any member of the CCE Group, except for any accrued Taxes that are reflected as a liability on the Closing Balance Sheet to the extent such Taxes reduce the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital.
4.02 NOTICE. A Party making a claim for indemnification under this Agreement (the "") shall provide the Party from whom such indemnification is sought (the "") with written notice of such claim describing such claim in reasonable detail and accompanied by reasonable documentation supporting such claim (the "") no later than twenty (20) Business Days after the Indemnified Party (i) files a Tax Return reporting Taxes due or other items which are subject to indemnification or (ii) receives written notice with respect to Taxes or other items that may be subject to indemnification under this Agreement, , , that in the event that timely notice is not provided, the Indemnifying Party shall be relieved of its obligation to indemnify the Indemnified Party only to the extent that such delay results in actual increased costs or actual prejudice.
Indemnified Party
Indemnifying Party
Claim
provided
however
4.03 TIMING OF PAYMENTS. The Indemnifying Party shall pay the amount of any Claim to the Indemnified Party within fifteen (15) Business Days of receipt of the Claim, , if such Claim is still subject to the outcome of any Tax Contest, then payment shall not be due until fifteen (15) Business Days after such Claim either is resolved through a Final Determination, or prior to a Final Determination, if the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party agree on the indemnification obligation under this Agreement with respect to such Claim. All indemnification payments due under this Agreement shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account of the Indemnified Party. Any payment required to be paid pursuant to this Agreement that is not paid by the 30th day after such payment is due shall accrue interest from and including such 30th day after the due date to and including the date of payment at the rate of one month LIBOR plus 25 basis points per annum simple interest.
provided
that
4.04 CCE TAX BENEFITS. At least three (3) Business Days prior to the Closing Date (but not more than five (5) Business Days prior to the Closing Date), CCE shall deliver to TCCC a certificate of CCE's Tax Director
 
(the "") setting forth CCE's good faith estimate, calculating in reasonable detail the aggregate CCE Tax Benefits actually available to the CCE Group immediately following the Closing Date, as determined for U.S. federal income Tax purposes (the ""). If the Certified CCE Tax Benefits are less than $292,000,000, then Splitco shall pay or cause to be paid to CCE at the Closing an amount equal to such difference, which shall not be taken into account in the determination of the Certified Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital, the Closing Adjusted Net Working Capital, or any other purchase price adjustments under the Merger Agreement. Such payment shall be made or taken into account in the manner set forth in Paragraph 7 of Schedule A of the Merger Agreement. Within 120 days following the Closing Date, TCCC shall provide Splitco a revised CCE Tax Benefits Certificate (the "") for review, and shall incorporate Splitco's reasonable comments on such Revised CCE Tax Benefits Certificate. To the extent the parties agree on the Revised CCE Tax Benefits Certificate and the revised Certified CCE Tax Benefits (""), or upon resolution of any disagreement with respect to such revised certificate in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE VIII, CCE shall pay Splitco the excess (if any) of the lower of $292,000,000 or the Revised Certified CCE Tax Benefits over the Certified CCE Tax Benefits or Splitco shall pay CCE the excess (if any) of the lower of $292,000,000 or the Certified CCE Tax Benefits over the Revised Certified CCE Tax Benefits. The Revised CCE Tax Benefits Certificate shall be amended as required to reflect any adjustments in any item of CCE Tax Benefits pursuant to a Final Determination and the amount of any resulting adjustment in the Revised Certified CCE Tax Benefits shall be paid by Splitco to CCE or returned by CCE to Splitco (but not in excess of such amounts previously received by CCE and not returned to Splitco under this Section 4.04), as appropriate in accordance with the provisions of the immediately preceding sentence. Any dispute or disagreement between the Parties under this Section 4.04 shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE VIII.
CCE
Tax Benefits Certificate
Certified
CCE
Tax Benefits
Revised
CCE
Tax Benefits Certificate
Revised Certified CCE Tax Benefits
4.05 PENSION CONTRIBUTION.
(a) The payment by TCCC to CCE upon Closing pursuant to Section 3.14(b) of the Employee Matters Agreement (without taking into account a reduction in such amount pursuant to Section 3.14(b)(ii)) shall be equal to the lesser of (i) the Pre-Tax Contribution Amount and (ii) the sum of (A) 63% of the Pre-Tax Contribution Amount and (B) the excess of (x) the Certified CCE Tax Benefits above $292,000,000, over (y) the amount described in clause (x) calculated as if the Pre-Tax Contribution Amount had not been contributed to the Section 3.14 Pension Plans (as such term is defined in the Employee Matters Agreement). Such payment shall be made or taken into account in the manner set forth in Paragraph 7 of Schedule A of the Merger Agreement. Upon the determination of the Revised Certified CCE Tax Benefits and any subsequent adjustment thereto pursuant to Section 4.04, the amount payable pursuant to Section 3.14(b) of the Employee Matters Agreement (as calculated under this Section 4.05(a)) shall be redetermined, and the difference between such previously determined amount and the redetermined amount shall be paid by TCCC to Splitco (in the case of an increase in such amount) or by Splitco to TCCC (in the case of a decrease in such amount).
(b) "Pre-Tax Contribution Amount" shall mean the sum of (i) $145,000,000 (which represents the amount of all contributions to the Section 3.14 Pension Plans (as such term is defined in the Employee Matters Agreement) in 2009) and (ii) the amount (if any) of all contributions to the Section 3.14 Pension Plans (as such term is defined in the Employee Matters Agreement) made in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.14(b) of the Employee Matters Agreement after December 31, 2009 and on or before the Effective Time.
4.06 TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS. The Parties agree that any payment, adjustment, reimbursement, or amount made or taken into account (collectively, payments) among the Parties pursuant to (i) this Agreement, (ii) Section 6.23 (Adjusted Net Working Capital) and ARTICLE IX (indemnification) of the Merger Agreement and any other purchase price adjustments under the Merger Agreement, (iii) Schedule A to the Merger Agreement, and (iv) Section 3.14(b) of the Employee Matters Agreement shall be treated, to the extent permitted by Law, for all Tax purposes as a non-taxable payment made immediately prior to the Merger; , , that to the extent the Parties are required by applicable Law to treat any post-Closing payment made pursuant to this Agreement as a taxable payment, the Tax imposed on such payment (including as a direct or
provided
however
 
indirect consequence of such payment) shall not be subject to indemnification under this Agreement or the Merger Agreement. To the extent practicable, any such payments to CCE or any Affiliate of CCE by Splitco or any member of the Splitco Group following the Closing will be segregated by CCE and transferred as promptly as practicable to creditors of CCE in payment of debt outstanding on the date hereof or incurred subsequent to the date hereof in the ordinary course of business, or to shareholders of CCE in respect of their CCE shares.
5.01 NOTICE. The Indemnified Party shall promptly notify the Indemnifying Party in writing upon receipt by the Indemnified Party or any member of its group of a written communication from any Governmental Entity with respect to any pending or threatened audit, claim, dispute, suit, action, proposed assessment or other proceeding (a "") concerning any Taxes for which the Indemnifying Party may be liable under this Agreement.
Tax Contest
5.02 CONTROL OF CONTESTS BY TCCC. TCCC shall have the sole responsibility and control over the handling of any Tax Contest, including the exclusive right to communicate with agents of the Governmental Entity and to control, resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest, involving any TCCC Filed Tax Return, but excluding any such Tax Contest to the extent Splitco bears any material Tax liability that may result from or is attributable to such Tax Contest; , , that TCCC shall not resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest that affects the liability of Splitco or a member of the Splitco Group under this Agreement without the consent of Splitco, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Splitco shall provide a response to a request for such consent from TCCC within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Subject to TCCC's rights under this Section 5.02, Splitco shall, upon request and at its own expense, be allowed to participate in the handling of any such Tax Contest with respect to any item that may affect the liability of Splitco or any member of the Splitco Group under this Agreement.
provided
however
5.03 CONTROL OF CONTESTS BY SPLITCO. Subject to Section 5.02, Splitco shall have the sole responsibility and control over the handling of any Tax Contest, including the exclusive right to communicate with agents of the Governmental Entity and to control, resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest, involving any Splitco Filed Tax Return, but excluding any such Tax Contest to the extent TCCC bears any material Tax liability that may result from or is attributable to such Tax Contest; , , that Splitco shall not resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest that affects the liability of TCCC or a member of the CCE Group under this Agreement, or that relates to any TCCC Filed Tax Return, without the consent of TCCC, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. TCCC shall provide a response to a request for such consent from Splitco within fifteen (15) Business Days following the receipt of such request. Subject to Splitco's rights under this Section 5.03, TCCC shall, upon request and at its own expense, be allowed to participate in the handling of any such Tax Contest with respect to any item that may affect the liability of CCE or any member of the CCE Group under this Agreement.
provided
however
5.04 JOINT CONTROL OF CONTESTS. The parties shall jointly control the handling of any Tax Contest, including any communication with agents of any Governmental Entity and the resolution, settlement or agreement to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest, to the extent such Tax Contest is not exclusively controlled by TCCC under Section 5.02 or by Splitco under Section 5.03.
 
6.01 GENERAL. Each Party shall fully cooperate, and shall cause all members of such Party's group (the CCE Group and the Splitco Group) to fully cooperate, with the other Parties in connection with the preparation and filing of any Tax Return or the conduct of any Tax Contest (including, where appropriate or necessary, providing a power of attorney) concerning any issues or any other matter contemplated under this Agreement (including the joint determination of the Tax items related or attributable to, or resulting from, the Separation Transactions (including the Merger), or any transaction incidental thereto entered into for the purpose of effecting the Separation Transactions, as mutually agreed by the Parties, including the items listed on Schedule 6.01). Each Party shall make its employees and facilities available on a mutually convenient basis to facilitate such cooperation.
6.02 CONSISTENT TREATMENT. Unless and except to the extent that there has been a Final Determination to the contrary or a change in Law that results in there not being substantial authority in support of (a) the allocation of Taxes and Employee Benefit Tax Items between the CCE Group and the Splitco Group as set forth in this Agreement, (b) any conclusion or representation in the Tax Materials, (c) any position required to be taken under Section 3.03, or (d) the Tax treatment of any transaction included in the Separation Transactions agreed upon by the parties, each Party agrees not to take any position on any Tax Return, in connection with any Tax Contest or otherwise that is inconsistent with clauses (a) through (d) of this Section 6.02.
7.01 For so long as the contents thereof may become material in the administration of any matter under applicable Tax Law, but in any event until the later of (i) the expiration of any applicable statutes of limitation and (ii) seven years after the Closing Date, the Parties shall (a) retain records, documents, accounting data and other information (including computer data and the systems necessary to access such data) necessary for the preparation and filing of all Tax Returns in respect of Taxes of any member of the CCE Group or the Splitco Group or for any Tax Contests relating to such Tax Returns, and (b) give to the other Parties reasonable access to such records, documents, accounting data and other information (including computer data) and to its personnel (insuring their cooperation), systems and premises, for the purpose of the review or audit of such Tax Returns to the extent relevant to an obligation or liability of a Party under this Agreement or for purposes of the preparation or filing of any such Tax Return, the conduct of any Tax Contest or any other matter reasonably and in good faith related to the Tax affairs of the requesting Party. At any time after the Closing Date that TCCC or Splitco proposes to destroy such material or information, it shall first notify the other Party in writing and such other Party shall be entitled to receive such materials or information proposed to be destroyed.
8.01 In the event of any disagreement arising under this Agreement, including any dispute in connection with a claim by a third party (a ""), the Parties shall promptly notify the tax director of each of TCCC and Splitco (each, a "" and, together, the "") of such Dispute, who together shall attempt in good faith to resolve such Dispute. If such Dispute is not resolved within twenty (20) Business Days following the date on which the Tax Directors receive notification, the Parties to such Dispute shall jointly retain an independent, nationally recognized law or accounting firm (the "") to act as an arbitrator in order to resolve the Dispute. The Tax Arbitrator's determination as to any Dispute shall be made in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and shall be final and binding on the Parties and not subject to collateral attack for any reason (other than manifest error). All fees and expenses of the Tax Arbitrator shall be shared equally by each of the Parties to the Dispute.
Dispute
Tax Director
Tax Directors
Tax Arbitrator
 
9.01 INCORPORATED MERGER AGREEMENT PROVISIONS. Subsections (b), (e) and (f) of Section 9.8, Sections 10.4 through 10.10, Section 10.12 and Section 10.13 of the Merger Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference.
9.02 EXPENSES. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Merger Agreement, TCCC shall pay (or cause to be paid) all fees and expenses incurred by it or on its behalf or by or on behalf of any of its Subsidiaries with respect to the matters addressed herein, and CCE (prior to the Effective Time) and Splitco (from and after the Effective Time) shall pay (or cause to be paid) all fees and expenses incurred by it or on its behalf or by or on behalf of any of its Subsidiaries with respect to the matters addressed herein.
9.04 NOTICES. All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder required to be delivered in writing shall be deemed given if delivered personally, telecopied (which is confirmed) or sent by overnight courier (providing proof of delivery) to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):
If to Splitco, to:
2500 Windy Ridge Parkway
Atlanta, Georgia 30339
Fax: (770) 989-3073
Attention: H. Lynn Oliver, Vice President, Tax
with a copy, which shall not constitute notice to Splitco, to:
2500 Windy Ridge Parkway
Atlanta, Georgia 30339
Fax: (770) 989-3784
Attention: John Parker, Senior Vice President, General Counsel
If to TCCC, to:
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, GA 30313
Fax: (404) 598-7196
Attention: Vice President and General Tax Counsel
with a copy, which shall not constitute notice to TCCC, to:
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, GA 30313
Fax: (404) 515-2546
Attention: Senior Vice President and General Counsel
9.05 APPLICATION TO PRESENT AND FUTURE SUBSIDIARIES. This Agreement is being entered into by TCCC, CCE and Splitco on behalf of themselves and the members of their respective groups (the CCE Group and the Splitco Group). This Agreement shall constitute a direct obligation of each such entity and shall be deemed to have been readopted and affirmed on behalf of any entity that becomes a Subsidiary of CCE or Splitco in the future.
9.06 FURTHER ASSURANCES. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Parties hereto shall make, execute, acknowledge and deliver such other instruments and documents, and take all such other actions, as may be reasonably required in order to effectuate the purposes of this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
9.07 SURVIVAL. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, all representations, covenants and obligations contained in this Agreement shall survive for a period of ninety (90) days following the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations (including extensions thereof) with respect to any such matter.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
 
 
 
 
 
This Employee Matters Agreement (this "Agreement") is made as of February 25, 2010 by and among Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., a Delaware corporation ("CCE"), International CCE, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Splitco") and The Coca-Cola Company, a Delaware corporation ("TCCC").
CCE, Splitco, TCCC and Cobalt Subsidiary LLC ("Merger Sub") have concurrently entered into the Separation and Merger Agreement pursuant to which, upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, among other things, (i) CCE will consummate, or cause to be consummated, the Separation Transactions and (ii) following the Separation Transactions, TCCC will acquire CCE and the North American Business by means of a merger of Merger Sub with and into CCE, with CCE being the surviving corporation and pursuant to which (A) CCE will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of TCCC and (B) the outstanding shares of CCE Common Stock (other than the Excluded Shares) will be converted into the right to receive shares of Splitco Common Stock and cash as provided in the Separation and Merger Agreement.
This Agreement sets forth the agreement of the parties concerning (i) the transfer of employment of certain CCE Employees, (ii) the treatment of the CCE Benefit Plans and (iii) other matters related to CCE Employees.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth herein, as well as other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged and accepted, and intending to be legally bound hereby, each of CCE, Splitco and TCCC hereby agrees as follows:
The following capitalized terms as used in this Agreement shall have the meaning set forth below unless otherwise specified herein. Other capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given them in the Separation and Merger Agreement.
(a) "CCE Employee" shall mean an individual employed by CCE or any of its Subsidiaries, including any such individual who is on vacation or on approved leave of absence (including maternity, paternity, family, sick leave, disability leave, salary continuation, qualified military service under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 and leave under the Family Medical Leave Act, and other approved leaves, including approved leaves of absence under Laws of jurisdictions other than the United States).
(b) "CCE North American Employee" shall mean a CCE Employee whose services are provided in respect of the North American Business (i) immediately prior to the Effective Time (including each CCE North American Headquarters Employee but excluding each Transferred CCE North American Employee) or (ii) with respect to any proposed action under Section 2.2 or 3.2 or Article 5, at the time such action is proposed to be taken; provided, that in no event shall any individual who is or was a non-employee director of CCE be a CCE North American Employee.
(c) "CCE North American Headquarters Employee" shall mean a CCE Employee whose services are provided in respect of the Corporate Segment.
 
(d) "CCE Other Employee" shall mean a CCE Employee who is not a CCE North American Employee, including each Transferred CCE North American Employee.
(e) "CCE Stock Plans" shall mean, collectively, CCE's 1997 Stock Option Plan, 1999 Stock Option Plan, 2001 Restricted Stock Award Plan, 2001 Stock Option Plan, 2004 Stock Award Plan, 2007 Incentive Award Plan and Employee Stock Purchase Plan, in each case as amended through the most recent applicable amendment date, and all awards granted thereunder.
(f) "Former CCE Employee" shall mean any individual whose employment with CCE or any of its Subsidiaries is terminated prior to the Effective Time.
(g) "Separation and Merger Agreement" shall mean that certain Business Separation and Merger Agreement by and among CCE, TCCC, Splitco and Merger Sub, dated as of February 25, 2010.
(h) "Transferred CCE North American Employee" shall mean each CCE North American Headquarters Employee and each CCE North American Employee who, in accordance with Sections 5.2 and 2.1, becomes employed by Splitco or one of its Subsidiaries immediately prior to the Effective Time.
2.1 .
CCE Employees
Except as provided in Section 2.2, CCE shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, take all actions necessary or desirable such that, effective no later than immediately prior to the Effective Time, (i) the CCE Other Employees shall be employed by Splitco or one of its Subsidiaries, (ii) the CCE North American Employees shall be employed by CCE or one of its Subsidiaries other than Splitco or one of Splitco's Subsidiaries, (iii) the Contracts regarding any individuals who are independent contractors or consultants providing services to the North American Business shall be transferred to, and the liabilities and obligations with respect thereto assumed by, CCE, and (iv) the Contracts regarding any individuals who are independent contractors or consultants providing services to the Other CCE Businesses shall be transferred to, and the liabilities and obligations with respect thereto assumed by, Splitco.
2.2 .
CCE Expatriate Employees
(a) Set forth on Schedule 2.2 is a list, as of the date of this Agreement, of (i) each CCE North American Employee who is providing services to the North American Business on "international assignment" (as such term is used by CCE) and (ii) each CCE Other Employee who is providing services to the CCE Other Businesses and on international assignment from a North American Business Entity, and in each case, such employee's employer and the entity or business unit to which such employee is providing services as of the date of this Agreement.
(b) No later than August 1, 2010, TCCC shall notify CCE of the actions, if any, that CCE should take to facilitate the transfer of the employment, or the continuation of the international assignment, of the individuals set forth on Schedule 2.2 who are providing services as of the date of this Agreement to the North American Business.
2.3 .
CCE Benefit Plans
(a) CCE shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, take all actions necessary or desirable such that, effective no later than the Effective Time, (i) Splitco or one of its Subsidiaries shall assume sponsorship of, and all of CCE's rights, powers, duties, obligations and Liabilities under and with respect to, all CCE Benefit Plans other
 
than the North American Benefit Plans and (ii) CCE or one of its Subsidiaries (other than Splitco and its Subsidiaries) shall assume sponsorship of, and all of CCE's rights, powers, duties, obligations and Liabilities under and with respect to, all North American Benefit Plans. At the Effective Time, Splitco shall pay to CCE the net amount (, the difference between employee contributions and payments to employees for expenses for the calendar year in which the Effective Time occurs), determined as of the Effective Time, credited to the accounts of the CCE North American Business Employees and, if the Effective Time occurs during 2010, the Transferred CCE North American Employees, in any case, under CCE's Healthcare Reimbursement Account Plan and Dependent Care Reimbursement Account Plan.
i.e.
(b) CCE shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, take all actions necessary or desirable such that, effective no later than the Effective Time, the CCE Other Employees shall, except as specifically provided herein or in the Transition Services Agreement, cease active participation in the North American Benefit Plans and shall accrue no additional benefits thereunder.
2.4 .
No Termination of Employment
The parties hereto agree that it is intended for purposes of all CCE Benefit Plans (including without limitation, any CCE severance plan, program agreement or arrangement and the CCE Stock Plans), that no CCE North American Employee shall be considered to have incurred a termination of employment or separation from service with CCE or its Subsidiaries solely by virtue of the transfer of such individual's employment pursuant to this Agreement (whether pursuant to Section 2.1, 2.2 or 5.2 of this Agreement or otherwise) and/or the consummation of the Separation Transactions or the other transactions contemplated by the Separation and Merger Agreement or this Agreement.
2.5 .
COBRA
CCE shall retain the obligation for continuation coverage (within the meaning of Section 4980B of the Code) for Former CCE Employees (and their spouses and eligible dependents) who are as of immediately prior to the Effective Time eligible for such coverage pursuant to a CCE Benefit Plan.
2.6 .
Long-Term Disability
CCE shall retain the obligation to provide continued long-term disability benefits for any CCE North American Employees and Former CCE Employees who were employed in the North American Business at the time they became eligible for such benefits, in each case, who are receiving such benefits as of the Effective Time. Such long-term disability benefits shall be, with respect to each such CCE North American Employee or Former CCE Employee, substantially comparable in the aggregate to the benefits such individual is receiving as of the Effective Time.
3.1 .
Level of Compensation and Benefits
From the Effective Time through and including December 31, 2011, TCCC shall, or shall cause its Subsidiaries to, provide to the non-represented CCE North American Employees (i) salary, wages and annual cash bonus opportunities that are substantially comparable in the aggregate to those in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, retaining CCE's pay and bonus structure, salary bands, compensation ranges and target bonus levels within such salary bands, and executive perquisite allowances as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time and (ii) benefits (other than equity-based compensation, which shall be governed solely under
 
Section 3.2, and other employee benefits specifically provided for in this Agreement) that are substantially comparable in the aggregate to the benefits provided to the CCE North American Employees immediately prior to the Effective Time under the North American Benefit Plans listed in Section 4.14(a) of the Seller Disclosure Letter other than the CCE Stock Plans, in each case, subject to the CCE North American Employee's continued employment with TCCC or one of its Affiliates; provided, however, that with respect to the CCE North American Employees set forth on Schedule 2.2, TCCC and, if applicable, its Subsidiaries, shall use their commercially reasonable best efforts to provide such individuals with substantially comparable salary, bonus opportunities, benefits and expatriate allowances in accordance with applicable Laws.
3.2 .
Equity-Based Compensation
(a) CCE shall not grant any equity-based awards to any CCE North American Employee from the date of this Agreement through October 15, 2010, other than equity-based awards made (i) to newly hired employees, within one year following the employee's date of hire, that are in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with CCE's past practice of compensating newly hired employees, (ii) prior to September 1, 2010, to employees to correct administrative errors in the employees' most recent annual equity-based awards, (iii) to a Transferred CCE North American Employee identified to TCCC prior to such grant, or (iv) with the consent of TCCC, which consent shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld. In the event that as of October 15, 2010, the parties reasonably determine that the Effective Time shall not occur prior to December 15, 2010, following consultation with TCCC, CCE may make grants of equity-based awards no later than December 15, 2010, (such grants, collectively, the "CCE 2010 Grant") to CCE North American Employees (excluding for this purpose grants made to Transferred CCE North American Employees who have been identified to TCCC prior to the date of the CCE 2010 Grant) that are in accordance with CCE's past practice and guidelines with respect to annual grants, made most recently in November 2009 to CCE North American Employees; provided, however, that (x) in no event shall the CCE 2010 Grant have an aggregate value as of the grant date (based on a reasonable Black-Scholes valuation or grant date fair value methodology, as applicable, to be agreed between TCCC and CCE) that is greater than the aggregate value as of the grant date of the aggregate annual equity awards made by CCE in November 2009 to CCE North American Employees (excluding for this purpose grants made to Transferred CCE North American Employees who have been identified to TCCC prior to the date of the CCE 2010 Grant), and (y) each award made pursuant to the CCE 2010 Grant shall specify that the transactions contemplated by the Separation and Merger Agreement shall not constitute a "Change in Control" if the Effective Time occurs prior to December 31, 2011; and provided, further, that this sentence shall not limit CCE's ability to make grants of equity-based awards to CCE Other Employees who are not Transferred CCE North American Employees, and to Transferred CCE North American Employees who have been identified to TCCC prior to the date of the CCE 2010 Grant.
(b) At such time after the Effective Time as TCCC makes its regular annual equity awards to its employees in 2011 and no later than June 30, 2011, TCCC shall provide equity-based awards to CCE North American Employees who hold a position in the Senior Management Broad Band or above (or a comparable TCCC position) having a substantially comparable value in the aggregate, for a comparable number of employees, as of the date of grant (based on a reasonable Black-Scholes value for stock option grants and based on the grant date fair value for whole share-based awards) as awarded by CCE to its employees providing services to the North American Business in November 2009 (excluding for this purpose grants made to Transferred CCE North American Employees), with such grant made in a manner consistent with CCE's target award levels, award ranges, and performance adjustment criteria employed in such November 2009 annual equity grant by CCE; provided, however, that (i) TCCC shall have no obligation to replicate the form of award or the terms and conditions of awards granted under CCE Stock Plans, including without limitation the number of shares to be subject to such TCCC equity awards and the vesting conditions and exercise or purchase price of such TCCC equity awards and (ii) TCCC shall not be obligated to make such 2011 equity-based awards to CCE North American Employees if CCE shall have made the CCE 2010 Grant.
(c) Provided that the Effective Time occurs prior to December 31, 2010, the CCE performance share units granted in 2007 and any other CCE equity award with performance criteria based on growth in earnings per share
 
("EPS") for the period 2008-2010, and CCE performance share awards having a performance goal relating to EPS achieved by CCE for the year 2010, in any case, held by CCE North American Employees and former CCE North American Employees (the "2010 EPS Awards") shall be eligible to satisfy such EPS performance goals with respect to the year 2010 only as provided in Schedule 3.2(c). It is expressly understood and agreed between the parties that the time-based vesting provisions of the 2010 EPS Awards shall not be modified in any way by this Section 3.2.
3.3 .
2010 Annual Bonus
In the event that the Effective Time occurs during 2010, annual cash incentive compensation for the CCE North American Employees with respect to the year 2010 shall be determined in accordance with CCE's 2010 annual bonus program (the "2010 CCE Annual Bonus Program"). The 2010 CCE Annual Bonus Program shall be adopted by CCE in accordance with its past practice, except that such program shall (i) use as a performance measure the 2010 definition of "operating income" set forth on Schedule 3.3 hereto, (ii) include provisions for adjustments of applicable performance goals upon consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Separation and Merger Agreement, with specific adjustments, including for costs and expenses related to the transactions, to be mutually agreed between TCCC and CCE, and (iii) provide that for CCE North American Employees whose performance measure relates to corporate-wide performance, the annual bonus shall be determined based on corporate-wide performance for the pro rata portion of the bonus relating to the period before the Effective Time, and the performance of the North American Business (excluding the Corporate Segment) for the pro rata portion of the bonus relating to the period after the Effective Time.
3.4 .
Severance
(a) CCE shall be responsible for the severance costs, if any, of any CCE North American Employee arising on and after the Effective Time. CCE shall maintain CCE's Executive Severance Plan for not less than 24 months following the Effective Time, in accordance with the terms of such plan in effect as of the date of this Agreement. CCE shall not expand the positions eligible for participation in the CCE Executive Severance Plan without the consent of TCCC. For those CCE North American Employees who are not eligible to participate in CCE's Executive Severance Plan under the terms of such plan in effect as of the date of this Agreement, TCCC and its Subsidiaries (including but not limited to CCE and the North American Business Subsidiaries) shall pay to any such CCE North American Employee whose position is eligible for benefits under the CCE Employee Severance Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement, and whose employment is terminated following the Effective Time through and including December 31, 2011, severance benefits that are substantially comparable to those that would have been provided under the CCE Employee Severance Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
(b) Splitco shall be responsible for the severance costs, if any, of all CCE Other Employees on and after the Effective Time, whether the applicable termination of employment occurs prior to, as of or following the Effective Time.
3.5 .
Retiree Medical Benefits
From the Effective Time through and including December 31, 2011, TCCC shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries (including but not limited to CCE and the North American Business Subsidiaries) to provide retiree medical benefits to (i) Former CCE Employees (and their eligible spouses and dependents, as applicable) who are as of immediately prior to the Effective Time receiving retiree medical benefits under a CCE Benefit Plan maintained for the benefit of retired CCE North American Employees and (ii) CCE Other Employees who are immediately prior to the Effective Time eligible for such retiree medical benefits under such plans and who elect to receive such benefits immediately following the Effective Time, which benefits shall be substantially comparable to the level of coverage in effect as of the date of this Agreement; provided, that TCCC may increase premiums, co-payments and deductibles at any time and from time to time with respect to retiree medical
 
benefits consistent with CCE's past practices and the rate of inflation with respect to the cost of providing health care. Any CCE Other Employee who is not immediately prior to the Effective Time eligible for retiree medical benefits under a CCE Benefit Plan shall not at any time later become eligible for benefits under any CCE or TCCC retiree medical plan, policy, program or arrangement.
3.6 .
CCE Defined Benefit Pension Plan
CCE shall implement the changes to the CCE Employees' Pension Plan that were approved by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of CCE's Board of Directors on September 1, 2009, in accordance with such approvals, to be effective January 1, 2011. CCE shall consult with TCCC on all plan details and implementation of such changes as so approved on September 1, 2009. The terms of such amended plan shall be subject to TCCC's input, and TCCC shall not unreasonably delay discussions regarding such terms. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in no event shall any amendment to the CCE Employees' Pension Plan contemplated by this Section 3.6 limit CCE's or TCCC's right to amend or modify such plan in any way after December 31, 2011, except to the extent that such limit applies solely as a result of applicable Laws.
3.7 .
Credit for Service
To the extent that a CCE North American Employee commences participation in an employee benefit plan, program or arrangement maintained by TCCC or any TCCC Subsidiary (an "Applicable TCCC Plan") following the Effective Time, TCCC shall, or shall cause CCE or the North American Business Subsidiaries and the Applicable TCCC Plan to:
(a) credit each CCE North American Employee's service with CCE or any predecessor to CCE, to the extent credited under the analogous North American Benefit Plan as of the Effective Time, as service with TCCC for purposes of eligibility and vesting, and for purposes of determining benefits under applicable vacation programs and service awards; and provided, however, that such service credit shall be subject to the applicable terms of any employment agreement;
(b) in the case of insured arrangements, use its reasonable best efforts to cause its third-party insurance providers to, and in the case of self-insured arrangements, cause any and all pre-existing condition limitations, eligibility waiting periods, active employment requirements and requirements to show evidence of good health under such Applicable TCCC Plan, to the extent that such conditions, exclusions and waiting periods would have been waived or satisfied under the analogous North American Benefit Plan in which such CCE North American Employee participated immediately prior to the Effective Time, to be waived in the plan year in which the Effective Time occurs with respect to such CCE North American Employee (and such individual's spouse and eligible dependents) who become participants in such Applicable TCCC Plan; and
(c) give credit for or otherwise take into account under such Applicable TCCC Plan the out-of-pocket expenses and annual expense limitation amounts paid by each CCE North American Employee under the analogous North American Benefit Plan for the plan year in which the Effective Time occurs.
In no event shall any CCE North American Employee be entitled to credit for service with CCE or any predecessor to CCE (x) for purposes of determining the level of benefits provided under any Applicable TCCC Plan not specified under clause (a) of this Section 3.7 or (y) under TCCC's tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan, for purposes of (1) determining years of service or (2) recognition of compensation unless, for purposes of this clause (2), such CCE North American Employee was as of December 31, 2009 eligible for recognition of compensation under such plan.
3.8 .
Represented Employees
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the terms and conditions of the employment of CCE North American Employees covered by a collective bargaining Contract shall continue in
 
accordance with the terms of such collective bargaining Contract, and TCCC shall not be required to take, or to cause any of its Subsidiaries to take, any action that would violate or breach the terms of any collective bargaining Contract.
3.9 .
Workers' Compensation
Prior to the Effective Time, CCE and Splitco shall use commercially reasonable efforts to fulfill the necessary requirements of each jurisdiction in which the Other CCE Businesses operate with respect to workers' compensation insurance, including posting surety bonds or purchasing insurance policies and shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain a release of CCE and any North American Business Subsidiary from any and all obligations in respect of workers' compensation insurance relating to the Other CCE Businesses.
3.10 .
No Guarantee of Employment
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting (a) TCCC and its Affiliates (including but not limited to, CCE and the North American Business Subsidiaries following the Effective Time) from terminating the employment of any CCE North American Employee or (b) Splitco and its Affiliates from terminating the employment of any CCE Other Employee, in any case, at any time following the Effective Time and for any or no reason.
3.11 .
Preservation of Rights to Amend or Terminate Plans
Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, nothing contained in this Agreement shall (i) be construed to establish, amend or modify any benefit plan, program or arrangement, or (ii) alter or limit the ability of TCCC, CCE, any North American Business Subsidiary, Splitco or any of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates, whether prior to, as of or following the Effective Time, to amend, modify or terminate any benefit plan, program, agreement or arrangement at any time assumed, established, sponsored or maintained by any of them, in accordance with the terms of such plan, program, agreement or arrangement and applicable Laws. Without limiting in any way the generality of the foregoing, TCCC shall not be obligated to continue the CCE Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
3.12 .
Cooperation on Employee Communications
Without limiting the generality of any provision in this Agreement or the Separation and Merger Agreement, each of TCCC, CCE and Splitco shall cooperate with the other parties hereto in establishing as soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, protocols for communications with the CCE North American Employees concerning the nature of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the Separation and Merger Agreement, including without limitation communications with respect to job applications, transfers of employment and the effect of the Separation Transactions and the Merger on employee benefits; provided, that, such protocols shall not limit CCE's and Splitco's ability to communicate with CCE North American Headquarters Employees concerning transfers of employment and other matters relating to becoming Transferred CCE North American Employees.
3.13 .
CCE Stock Plans
The treatment of outstanding equity previously granted under the CCE Stock Plans shall be governed by the Separation and Merger Agreement and Section 3.2 of this Agreement.
3.14 .
CCE Contributions through the Effective Time
(a) All required contributions to North American Benefit Plans that are defined contribution plans, with respect to employee deferrals and contributions, matching contributions and other contributions for CCE Employees in respect of all periods through the Effective Time, determined in accordance with the terms and provisions of the
 
relevant North American Benefit Plan, ERISA, and the Code, shall be paid by CCE or the relevant Subsidiary of CCE (including without limitation Splitco and its Subsidiaries). Any such contributions that are not made prior to the Effective Time shall be paid to TCCC no later than 15 days following the Effective Time.
(b) On the Closing Date, TCCC shall pay to CCE (i) the amount specified in Section 4.05 of the Tax Sharing Agreement in respect of the amount of the aggregate 2009 contribution that CCE made to the CCE tax-qualified or registered defined benefit pension plans that are not "multiemployer plans" within the meaning of Section 3(37) of ERISA (the "Section 3.14 Pension Plans") (ii) the amount set forth in Schedule 3.14(b). TCCC agrees that CCE shall not be required to fund any contribution to the Section 3.14 Pension Plans after December 31, 2009 and prior to the Effective Time or the termination of this Agreement. Accordingly, if the Effective Time shall not have occurred prior to the time CCE is required to make such contributions (or if CCE shall with TCCC's prior written consent make a contribution earlier than as required), the amount specified in Section 4.05 of the Tax Sharing Agreement shall be adjusted, as provided in Section 4.05 of the Tax Sharing Agreement, to account for such contributions. Payments under this Section 3.14(b) shall be made or deemed made in the manner set forth in Paragraph 7 of Schedule A of the Separation and Merger Agreement.
less
4.1 .
Transfer of Liabilities and Assets
Prior to the Effective Time, CCE shall cause Splitco to assume and become obligated for all liabilities and obligations under the CCE Executive Pension Plan, Supplemental Pension Plan, and Supplemental MESIP with respect to the Transferred CCE North American Employees and the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors with respect to directors and former directors of CCE (such benefits under such plans, the "Transferred Nonqualified Plan Benefits"). CCE shall cause the assets held by the Amended and Restated CCE Supplemental Matched Employee Savings and Investment Plan Rabbi Trust that have been allocated to the Transferred CCE North American Employees in accordance with their hypothetical investment elections with respect to the Supplemental MESIP as of immediately prior to the Effective Time to be transferred, on an account-by-account basis, to a grantor trust established by Splitco.
4.2 .
Stock Funds
CCE shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, take all actions necessary such that, effective no later than the date of this Agreement, and for the period from the date of this Agreement until the Effective Time, no Supplemental MESIP participant shall be permitted to (i) newly elect a hypothetical investment in the CCE stock fund or the TCCC stock fund under the Supplemental MESIP or (ii) modify such Supplemental MESIP participant's investment elections as of the date of this Agreement to increase amounts hypothetically invested in the CCE stock fund or the TCCC stock fund.
 
5.1 .
Conduct of the North American Business Relating to Employee Matters
Without the prior written consent of TCCC (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned), CCE shall not, and shall cause its Subsidiaries and Affiliates not to, directly or indirectly, take, authorize or enter into any agreement or commitment to take any of the following actions with respect to the North American Business Entities or the North American Business:
(a) increase the rate of compensation of, or pay or agree to pay any benefit to, any CCE North American Employee, except as may be required to comply with applicable Laws or by any existing plan, including any CCE Benefit Plan, agreement or arrangement, and except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, including as part of CCE's or the North American Business Subsidiaries' normal periodic performance reviews and related salary increases;
(b) enter into, adopt or amend (i) any North American Benefit Plan or any other employee compensatory program, policy or arrangement with respect to the CCE North American Employees (including any employment agreement (not terminable at will) or severance or change of control agreement with a CCE North American Employee other than an agreement between Splitco or a Splitco Subsidiary and a Transferred CCE North American Employee for which Splitco or a Splitco Subsidiary is fully liable) or (ii) any CCE Benefit Plan for which any North American Business Entity could be liable following the Effective Time, except (A) as required by Laws, (B) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (C) with respect to an agreement between an Other CCE Businesses Entity and a Transferred CCE North American Employee, or (D) as specifically contemplated by this Agreement; provided, however, that in no event shall any action be taken that would (1) amend any North American Benefit Plan or CCE Benefit Plan to provide a CCE North American Employee with a "gross-up" for any federal, state, local, income, excise or other Tax, (2) amend the CCE Employees' Pension Plan in any way inconsistent with the terms approved by CCE's Board of Directors on September 1, 2009 or (3) expand the positions eligible for participation in any North American Benefit Plan or any other employee compensatory program, policy or arrangement with respect to the CCE North American Employees.
(c) except (i) as contemplated hereby with respect to Transferred CCE North American Employees and (ii) with respect to CCE Employees who are listed on Schedule 2.2, change the duties of any CCE North American Employee such that the employee would no longer be a CCE North American Employee, or change the duties of any employee who is not currently a CCE North American Employee such that the employee would become a CCE North American Employee;
(d) terminate the employment of any CCE North American Employee (i) whose position is as of the date of this Agreement at Business Unit/Functional Leadership Broad Band or above or (ii) who is within 60 days following the date of this Agreement mutually agreed by TCCC and CCE to be a key CCE North American Employee (collectively, the "Key CCE Employees"); provided, however, that CCE may terminate the employment of a Key CCE Employee who (x) violates CCE's Code of Business Conduct or (y) has, prior to the date of this Agreement, been given notice by CCE of an involuntary termination of employment;
(e) enter into any Contract with respect to any CCE Benefit Plan (including, without limitation, contracts for the provision of services to such CCE Benefit Plan) having a term of greater than one year or providing for payments by CCE having a value, estimated as of the date of such Contract, of greater than $5 million; or
(f) implement any layoffs that would trigger the notice requirements of the WARN Act without complying with the WARN Act.
 
5.2 .
Identification of Transferred Headquarters Employees
(a) Following the date of this Agreement until the Effective Time, CCE shall have the discretion to select which of the CCE North American Headquarters Employees it shall solicit to be Transferred CCE North American Employees. Following the date of this Agreement until the Effective Time, without the prior written consent of TCCC, none of CCE, Splitco or any of their respective Subsidiaries shall solicit for employment with Splitco or any Splitco Subsidiary any CCE North American Employee other than a CCE North American Headquarters Employee.
(b) No later than August 1, 2010, CCE shall provide to TCCC a schedule setting forth the names of each CCE North American Headquarters Employee who CCE has determined it shall not solicit to be a Transferred CCE North American Employee. TCCC shall be permitted to contact any such CCE North American Headquarters Employee with respect to employment with TCCC and its Subsidiaries to be effective as of the Effective Time.
5.3 .
No Solicitation; No Employment
From the Effective Time until December 31, 2011, Splitco shall not, without the express written consent of TCCC, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, solicit for employment with Splitco or any Splitco Subsidiary any person (a) who is an employee of TCCC or CCE (or their respective Subsidiaries) or (b) who is a former employee of TCCC or CCE (or their respective Subsidiaries) whose employment is terminated at any time after the date of this Agreement, during the first 60 days following such termination of employment, or, in any case, in any way interfere with the relationship between TCCC or CCE or any of their respective Subsidiaries and any such person. From the Effective Time until December 31, 2011, TCCC shall not, without the express written consent of Splitco, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, solicit for employment with TCCC or any TCCC Subsidiary any person (a) who is an employee of Splitco or any Splitco Subsidiary or (b) who is a former employee of Splitco or any Splitco Subsidiary whose employment is terminated at any time after the date of this Agreement, during the first 60 days following such termination of employment, or, in any case, in any way interfere with the relationship between Splitco or a Splitco Subsidiary and any such person. The foregoing restrictions shall not apply to any person whose employment with TCCC, CCE or Splitco (or their respective Subsidiaries), as applicable, terminates involuntarily, and shall not apply to general solicitations or advertisements not specifically directed to employees of TCCC, CCE, Splitco or their respective Subsidiaries, as applicable, or solicitations by search firms or other similar entities that have not been instructed to solicit such employees.
6.1 .
Negotiation of Collective Bargaining Agreements
CCE shall not, and shall cause its Subsidiaries not to, execute, adopt, amend or terminate any collective bargaining Contract without TCCC's consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, unless such execution, amendment, adoption or termination (i) relates solely to CCE Other Employees, (ii) results in increased costs over the prior collective bargaining Contract of $5 million or less per 12-month period, or (iii) does not involve the implementation of a new or new participation in a defined benefit pension plan, retiree medical plan, multiemployer pension or welfare plan or severance plan or program. At TCCC's request, CCE shall provide periodic updates with respect to the negotiation, execution, adoption, amendment or termination of any collective bargaining Contract.
 
6.2 .
Continued Obligation
CCE shall honor, and satisfy all of its obligations under, the collective bargaining Contracts by which it is bound.
6.3 .
Union Communications
On or following the date of this Agreement, CCE shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, notify each union or similar organization representing CCE North American Employees of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Separation and Merger Agreement as required by Laws or any existing collective bargaining Contract.
7.1 .
Incorporation
Section 1.3 and Article X of the Separation and Merger Agreement are incorporated herein by reference.
7.2 .
Transfer of Records and Information from CCE to Splitco
Subject to applicable Laws, CCE shall transfer to Splitco any and all employment and employee benefit records and information (including, but not limited to, Forms W-2 or other Internal Revenue Service forms, any Forms I-9 or personnel records) with respect to Transferred CCE North American Employees and CCE Other Employees and other records reasonably required by Splitco to enable Splitco to properly carry out its obligations under this Agreement. Such transfer of records and information shall generally occur as soon as administratively practicable following (a) the date hereof or (b) with respect to records and information that are relevant to services provided in the Transition Services Agreement, the date upon which the provision of those services terminates. After the transfer of those records to Splitco, Splitco shall permit CCE and its Affiliates to have reasonable access to such records and such information.
7.3 .
Transition Services
Except as otherwise provided in the Transition Services Agreements or as otherwise expressly provided herein, neither party shall have any responsibility for providing services to the other party with respect to employee or benefit plan matters after the Effective Time.
7.4 .
Effect of Failure to Close or Early Termination
If the Effective Time does not occur, then all actions required to be taken under this Agreement shall not be taken except to the extent determined by the party required by this Agreement to take such action. This Agreement shall automatically terminate without any action being required by any party hereto in the event that the Separation and Merger Agreement is terminated prior to consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, in which event this Agreement shall become null and void and of no further force or effect. Any termination of this Agreement shall not be deemed to release and shall not relieve any party hereto from any liability for fraud or any intentional and material breach of this Agreement occurring on or prior to such termination.
 
7.5 .
Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts (including by facsimile), each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
The parties have caused this Agreement to be signed by their authorized representatives as of the date first set forth in this Agreement.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Coca-Cola Enterprises Completes Transaction with The Coca-Cola Company, Enhancing Its Position as Leading European Coca-Cola Bottler
ATLANTA, Oct 03, 2010 (BUSINESS WIRE)  Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (NYSE: CCE) announced today that it has completed its transaction with The Coca-Cola Company. CCE will retain its name and operate as a new public company consisting of its existing European territories, as well as the bottling operations in Norway and Sweden acquired from The Coca-Cola Company. CCE shares will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, October 4, under the CCE stock symbol.
"This is a truly exciting day for everyone at CCE, and the start of a new chapter in our history," said John F. Brock, chairman and chief executive officer. "Europe represents an outstanding platform for long-term, profitable growth, as evidenced by our recently announced, increased long-term financial objectives. We have been working diligently to prepare for this day, and continue to believe that CCE has the financial flexibility, operational focus and leadership continuity to build on our success in these markets. By growing the value of our portfolio and improving operational efficiency, we will drive increased value for our shareowners, customers and employees."
"We have a skilled team that understands what it takes to win in Europe, and we welcome our new employees in Norway and Sweden to Coca-Cola Enterprises," said Hubert Patricot, executive vice president and president, European Group. "We are excited about capturing the solid growth opportunities that lie ahead in our attractive European markets."
On September 7, 2010, CCE announced updated long-term financial objectives, including the following:
 
For 2011, earnings per share will likely exceed long-term objectives as a result of anticipated share repurchase activity. CCE will provide a more detailed update for its 2011 outlook in December.
ABOUT COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES, INC.
Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. is the leading Western European marketer, distributor, and producer of bottle and can liquid nonalcoholic refreshment and the world's third-largest independent Coca-Cola bottler. Headquartered in Atlanta, Ga., CCE is the sole licensed bottler for products of The Coca-Cola Company in Belgium, continental France, Great Britain, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden. For more information about our company, please visit our website at .
http://www.cokecce.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Included in this news release are forward-looking management comments and other statements that reflect management's current outlook for future periods. As always, these expectations are based on currently available competitive, financial, and economic data along with our current operating plans and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this news release should be read in conjunction with the risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including our Form S-4 registration statement filed in connection with the transaction with The Coca-Cola Company.
SOURCE: Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc.
Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc.
Investor Relations
Thor Erickson, 1 (770) 989-3110
or
Media Relations
Fred Roselli, 1 (770) 200-8731


