FILE:CCE/CCE-8K-20110211172559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company issued a press release on February 11, 2011 reporting its fourth-quarter 2010 and full-year 2010 results.  The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1
 
The information in this Item 2.02 is being furnished herewith and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Not Applicable.
(b) Not Applicable.
(c) Not Applicable.
(d) Exhibits
EXHIBIT
                                
NUMBER
DESCRIPTION
99.1                                Press Release dated February 11, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT
                                
NUMBER
DESCRIPTION
99.1                                Press Release dated February 11, 2011.

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   0;
   
   
 EXHIBIT 99.1
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   0;
   
   
   
 
 NEWS RELEASE
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   0;
   
   
   
CONTACT:    Thor Erickson  Investor Relations 
   
  +1 (678) 260-3110
   
   
  
Fred Roselli  Media Relations
 
 
+1 (678) 260-3421
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
ATLANTA, February 11, 2011  Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (NYSE: CCE)today reported full-year operating income of $810 million, or $908 million on a comparable and pro forma basis, including results from operations in Norway and Sweden. Full-year 2010 diluted earnings per common share were $1.83, or $1.78 on a pro forma and comparable basis.  Items affecting comparability and pro forma adjustments are detailed on page 10 of this release.
 
 
These results are for the new Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc., a recently registered public company consisting of legacy CCEs European bottling operations in Belgium, continental France, Great Britain, Luxembourg, Monaco, and the Netherlands, as well as bottling operations in Norway and Sweden acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010 from The Coca-Cola Company.
 
For the year, pro forma revenue totaled $7.4 billion, while pro forma operating income totaled $908 million. Year over year results for legacy CCE territories  excluding Norway and Sweden  reflect revenue growth of 4 percent and comparable operating income growth of 11 percent, both on a currency neutral basis.
 
Fourth-quarter diluted earnings per common share were 28 cents on a pro forma and comparable basis. Total fourth-quarter revenue was $1.8 billion with comparable operating income of $144 million.
 
 We are encouraged by these results, achieved despite ongoing soft macroeconomic conditions and challenging fourth-quarter weather, said John F. Brock, chairman and chief executive officer.  We remain focused on our key strategic objectives  building brands, enhancing efficiency, and developing our people  to achieve our goal of driving consistent, value growth.
   
 
 We have confidence in our operating plans for 2011 and continue to believe our performance will exceed our long-term targets as we move forward with our share repurchase plan, Mr. Brock said. There are significant growth opportunities ahead, and we will seize them through our marketplace experience, operating improvements, ongoing cost controls, and continued brand building.
   
 
Fourth-quarter volume grew 4 percent, reflecting solid growth in all territories. Net pricing per case increased 1 percent, while cost of sales per case increased 2 percent. Fourth-quarter pricing per case reflects planned increases in promotional activity. For the year, net pricing per case was up 1 percent while cost of sales per case was up  percent.
 
Sparkling brands grew 3 percent in the fourth quarter, including 2 percent growth in Coca-Cola trademark brands, which was driven by growth in brand Coca-Cola and Coca-Cola Zero. Soft drink flavors increased 6 percent, with solid growth in Dr Pepper, Fanta, Monster, and Sprite.  Still beverages increased 12 percent, reflecting the expanded distribution of Capri Sun and the addition of Ocean Spray.
 
 In Great Britain, volume grew 3 percent during the quarter primarily through a combination of growth in Coca-Cola trademark brands and in sparkling flavors.  Volume in continental Europe territories increased 5 percent with a balance of sparkling and still beverage growth. A key element of this growth includes continued solid results for Coca-Cola Zero, which was up more than 25 percent.
   
 
CCE affirms its previously disclosed expectations for 2011 and expects diluted earnings per common share in a range of $1.95 to $2.00. Revenue is expected to grow in a mid single-digit range, with expected operating income growth in a mid single-digit to high single-digit range. This outlook is comparable, currency neutral, and based on 2010 pro forma financials. Though it is very early to predict the 2011 currency impact accurately, based on recent rates currency would add approximately 4 percent to full-year earnings per share.
 
The company also expects free cash flow of approximately $425 million, with capital expenditures of approximately $400 million.  Weighted average cost of debt is expected to be approximately 3 percent, and the effective tax rate for 2011 is expected to be in a range of 26 percent to 28 percent.
 
CCE remains on track with plans to repurchase $1 billion of its shares by the end of first quarter 2012. As part of this program, CCE purchased $200 million of its shares during the fourth quarter 2010. Going forward, these plans may be adjusted depending on economic, operating, or other factors, including acquisition opportunities.
 
CCE will host a conference call with investors and analysts today at 10 a.m. ET.  The call can be accessed through our website at www.cokecce.com.
 
Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. is the leading Western European marketer, distributor, and producer of bottle and can liquid nonalcoholic refreshment and the worlds third-largest independent Coca-Cola bottler.  CCE is the sole licensed bottler for products of The Coca-Cola Company in Belgium, continental France, Great Britain, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden.  For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.cokecce.com.
 
Included in this news release are forward-looking management comments and other statements that reflect managements current outlook for future periods. As always, these expectations are based on currently available competitive, financial, and economic data along with our current operating plans and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this news release should be read in conjunction with the risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
 
(SEC), including our Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2010, the Form S-4 registration statement filed in connection with the transaction with The Coca-Cola Company, and our other filings.
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


