FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20040907174832.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 3.03 Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders.
     On August 20, 2004, which date is prior to the August 23, 2004 effective date of the new SEC disclosure requirements relating to Form 8-K (SEC Release Nos. 33-8400 and 34-49424), the Board of Directors of the Company amended and restated the By-Laws of the Company to assure consistency between the By-Laws and the Company's Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, recently adopted committee charters, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, certain other Company policies and procedures developed in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, certain rules and regulations promulgated by the New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission, Delaware law and tax law requirements relating to real estate investment trusts.
     The Amended and Restated By-laws include, among other things, certain changes to the provisions relating to (i) procedures for the submission of stockholder proposals and nominations of persons for election as directors, (ii) corporate governance, independent directors and committees of the Board of Directors, (iii) restrictions on issuance and transfer of stock as they relate to holdings of preferred stock, (iv) investment policy and restrictions that had become outdated, and (v) indemnification of directors and officers. Except for the changes relating to independent directors, which changes reflect requirements recently adopted by the New York Stock Exchange, the Company believes that none of these changes constituted a material modification of the By-Laws.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     See the disclosure in Item 3.03 above regarding the Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company, which were approved by the Board of Directors of the Company on August 20, 2004.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, certain assets of the Company are now classified as discontinued operations due to their sale during the six months ended June 30, 2004. As a result, the Company is reclassifying in this Report its operations, including rental income, interest expense and provision for depreciation related to those assets for prior periods. In so doing, the Company is updating Items 6, 7 and 8 of its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. Additionally, the Company is including, for informational purposes, Financial Statement Schedules III and IV which are unchanged from Item 15 of its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. The foregoing items are attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The application of Statement No. 144 had no effect on net income available to common stockholders.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
None.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
None.
(c) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Its: Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Dated: September 7, 2004

EXHIBIT 3.1 AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS OF HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. Set forth below are the Amended and Restated By-Laws of Health Care REIT, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), as adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation effective as of August 20, 2004. ARTICLE I OFFICES SECTION 1. Registered Office. The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware. SECTION 2. Other Offices. The Corporation may also have offices in Toledo, Ohio, and at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. SECTION 3. Corporate Seal. The corporate seal of the Corporation shall be in the form of a circle and shall state within the circle, "Health Care REIT, Inc., Toledo, Ohio" and the words "Corporate Seal" in the middle of the seal. ARTICLE II MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS SECTION 1. Place of Meetings. Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such place in the City of Toledo, Ohio, or at such other place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting. SECTION 2. Participation by Remote Communication. If authorized by the Board of Directors and subject to such guidelines and procedures as the Board of Directors may adopt, stockholders and proxy holders not physically present at a meeting of stockholders may, by means of remote communication, participate in a meeting of stockholders and be deemed present in person and vote at a meeting of stockholders, provided that (i) the Corporation shall implement reasonable measures to verify that each person deemed present and permitted to vote at the meeting by means of remote communication is a stockholder or proxy holder, (ii) the Corporation shall implement reasonable measures to provide such stockholders and proxy holders a reasonable opportunity to participate in the meeting and to vote on matters submitted to the stockholders, including an opportunity to read or hear the proceedings of the meeting substantially concurrently with such proceedings, and (iii) if any stockholder or proxy holder votes or takes other action at the meeting by means of remote communication, a record of such vote or other action shall be maintained by the Corporation. If the Board of Directors elects to authorize participation at a meeting of stockholders by remote communication, the Board of Directors may also elect in its sole discretion that the meeting shall not be held at any place, but will instead be held solely by means of remote communication as authorized pursuant to this section. -1-
SECTION 3. Annual Meetings. Annual Meetings of stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, at which meetings the stockholders shall elect a Board of Directors and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting in accordance with the requirements of Section 4 below. Written notice of the Annual Meeting stating the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting. At each Annual Meeting, the Chief Executive Officer or any other person appointed by the Board of Directors in his or her absence shall report on the business and operations of the Corporation and present a statement of the financial condition of the Corporation as of the close of the fiscal year next preceding such Annual Meeting. SECTION 4. Proposals for Business at Annual Meetings. At any Annual Meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (c) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder who was a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice provided for in this section and who is entitled to vote at such meeting. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an Annual Meeting by a stockholder, (i) the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation, and (ii) such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action under the Delaware General Corporation Law. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must have been delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not more than 120 days prior to the meeting and not less than 45 days before the date on which the Corporation first mailed or otherwise gave notice for the prior year's Annual Meeting of stockholders, provided that, if during the prior year the Corporation did not hold an Annual Meeting, or if the date of the Annual Meeting for the current year has changed more than 30 days from the date of the Annual Meeting in the prior year, then notice must have been received by the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the meeting was given or made, whichever first occurs. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the Annual Meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the Annual Meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the Annual Meeting, (ii) the name and record address of the stockholder proposing such business, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation that are owned beneficially or of record by the stockholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements and understandings between the stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by the stockholder and any material interest of the stockholder in such business, and (v) a representation that the stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting to bring such business before the meeting. Any nominations by stockholders of persons for election to the Board of Directors must satisfy the requirements of Section 5 of Article III of these By-Laws. -2-
Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an Annual Meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section. The officer of the Corporation presiding at an Annual Meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this section and that such business shall be disregarded. SECTION 5. Special Meetings. Special Meetings of stockholders shall be called as provided by the Certificate of Incorporation. Written notice of a Special Meeting stating the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. Business transacted at all Special Meetings shall be confined to the purposes stated in the notice for the meeting. SECTION 6. Quorum. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business. If, however, such a quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed. If the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting. SECTION 7. Voting. Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, (i) any question brought before any meeting of stockholders shall be decided by the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock represented and entitled to vote thereat, and (ii) each stockholder represented at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder. Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy but no proxy shall be voted on or after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in his or her discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot. If authorized by the Board of Directors, any such requirement of a written ballot may be satisfied by a ballot submitted by electronic transmission, provided that any such electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder or proxy holder. SECTION 8. List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote. The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the -3-
examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the Corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to stockholders of the Corporation. If the meeting is to be held at a place, then the list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be open to the examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting. SECTION 9. Stock Ledger. The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 8 of this Article II, or the books of the Corporation, or entitled to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders. SECTION 10. Conduct of Business. The officer of the Corporation presiding at any meeting of stockholders shall determine the order of business at the meeting and the procedures for the conduct of the meeting, including such regulation of the manner of voting and the conduct of discussions as deemed appropriate by him or her. The date and time of the opening and closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at the meeting shall be announced at the meeting. ARTICLE III DIRECTORS SECTION 1. Number of Directors. The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than three (3) nor more than fifteen (15) members, the exact number of which shall be fixed from time to time by affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, and such exact number shall be nine (9) until otherwise determined by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors; provided, however, that (i) the number of directors shall automatically be reduced by one whenever a director resigns, dies or is removed from office, and (ii) the number of directors shall automatically be increased by one, up to the number of directors last fixed by the Board of Directors, whenever a director is appointed by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 6 of this Article III to replace a director who has resigned, died or been removed from office. No decrease in the number of directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. SECTION 2. Independent Directors. A majority of the members of the Board of Directors shall be Independent Directors, as hereinafter defined, or such higher percentage as may be required by any stock exchange or trading market on which the Corporation shall have listed any of its securities for trading. For purposes of these By-Laws, "Independent Director" shall mean a director of the Corporation who (i) is not an officer or employee of the Corporation, (ii) satisfies all requirements for qualification as an independent director of all stock exchanges and trading markets -4-
on which the Corporation shall have listed any of its securities for trading, and (iii) satisfies such other qualification requirements as may be adopted by the Board of Directors from time to time. The Independent Directors shall have such powers and duties as specified by the Board of Directors from time to time and such additional duties as may be specified by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), the rules and regulations thereunder, or the rules of any stock exchange or trading market on which the Corporation shall have listed any of its securities for trading. SECTION 3. Classification of the Board. The Board of Directors shall be divided into three classes, to be known as Class I, Class II and Class III, respectively, of at least one (1) director each, with each class to be as nearly equal in number as the then total number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors permits, with the term of office of one class expiring in each year. At each Annual Meeting of stockholders, the successors to the class of directors whose term shall then expire shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the third succeeding Annual Meeting, or until their successors are elected and qualified. SECTION 4. Election of Directors. Directors shall be elected at the Annual Meeting of stockholders, but when the Annual Meeting is not held or directors are not elected thereat, they may be elected at a Special Meeting called and held for that purpose. Such election shall be by ballot whenever requested by any stockholder entitled to vote at such election; but, unless a request is made, the election may be conducted in any manner approved at such meeting. At each meeting of stockholders for the election of directors the persons receiving the greatest number of votes shall be directors. In order to serve as a director of the Corporation, persons need to be the beneficial owner of at least 100 shares of the Corporation's Common Stock, or such other amount as the Board of Directors may determine from time to time by resolution. SECTION 5. Nomination of Directors. Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors by the stockholders. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors at an Annual Meeting or a Special Meeting called for the election of directors may be made at the meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or a nominating committee of the Board of Directors, or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors at the meeting who has given timely notice of such nomination in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must have been delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not more than 120 days prior to the meeting and not less than 45 days before the date on which the Corporation first mailed or otherwise gave notice for the prior year's Annual Meeting of stockholders, provided that, if during the prior year the Corporation did not hold an Annual Meeting, or if the date of the Annual Meeting for the current year has changed more than 30 days from the date of the Annual Meeting in the prior year, or if directors are to be elected at a Special Meeting, then notice must have been received by the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the meeting was given or made, whichever first occurs. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary under this section shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, (1) the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of the nominee, (2) the -5-
principal occupation or employment of the nominee for at least the last five years and a description of the qualifications of the nominee, (3) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation that are owned beneficially or of record by the nominee, and (4) any other information relating to the nominee that is required to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies for election of directors under Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act, together with a written statement from the nominee that he or she is willing to be nominated and desires to serve, if elected; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice, (1) his or her name and record address, together with the name and address of any other stockholder known to be supporting the nominee, and (2) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation that are owned beneficially or of record by the stockholder making the nomination and by any other supporting stockholders. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as director of the Corporation. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation by the stockholders unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth herein. The officer of the Corporation presiding at the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedure and that the defective nomination shall be disregarded. SECTION 6. Vacancies. Any vacancies in the Board of Directors for any reason, and any newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors, may be filled by the Board of Directors, acting by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any directors so chosen shall hold office until the next election of the class for which such directors shall have been chosen and until their successors shall be elected and qualified. Solely for purposes of this section, vacancies in the Board of Directors shall be deemed to include any reductions in the number of directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article III as a result of the resignation, death or removal from office of one or more directors. If there are no directors in office, then an election of directors may be held in the manner provided by statute. SECTION 7. Removal of Directors. A director may be removed from office only for good cause at a meeting of stockholders upon the affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation, issued, outstanding and entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, provided that notice of such proposed action shall have been given in the notice calling for such meeting. As used in this section, good cause shall mean conviction of a felony by a court of competent jurisdiction, or a determination by a court of competent jurisdiction of negligence or misconduct in the performance of such director's duties to the Corporation in a matter determined by the Board of Directors to be of substantial importance to the Corporation. SECTION 8. Resignation of Directors. Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. Such resignation will take effect upon receipt thereof by the Corporation unless otherwise stated in the resignation. SECTION 9. Duties and Powers. The business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors, which may exercise all such powers of -6-
the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders. SECTION 10. Meetings. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. There shall be at least four (4) regular meetings each year. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman, if there be one, the President, the Secretary, or any three of the directors. Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the meeting, provided that notice shall be given to each director not less than three (3) days before a meeting if notice is given only by mail. SECTION 11. Quorum. Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at all meetings of the Board of Directors, and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present. SECTION 12. Actions of the Board. Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, or by electronic transmission. Any such writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions shall be filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form. SECTION 13. Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone. Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 13 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. SECTION 14. Committees. The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, designate from among its members one or more committees. The Board of Directors shall designate such committees as may be required from time to time by any stock exchange or trading market on which the Corporation shall have listed any of its securities for trading. Each committee must have one or more members, or such minimum number as may be required under the then current rules of any stock exchange or trading market on which the Corporation shall have listed any of its securities for trading, with each member having such qualifications as may be required by any such stock exchange or trading market and such additional qualifications as may be required by the Board of Directors from time to time by -7-
organizational charter for the committee or otherwise. Committee members shall serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee, provided that any such alternate member satisfies the qualification requirements for service on the committee. The sections of these By-Laws that govern the Board of Directors with respect to notice of meetings, waiver of notice, quorum, voting, and action without a meeting shall apply as well to committees of the Board of Directors and their members. Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the Board of Directors when required. A committee of the Board of Directors, to the extent provided by resolution of the Board of Directors in adopting an organizational charter for the committee or otherwise by resolution of the Board of Directors, may have and exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to the following matters: (i) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws to be submitted to stockholders for approval, or (ii) altering, amending or repealing, in whole or in part, these By-Laws. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws, or the resolution of the Board of Directors designating the committee, a committee may create one or more subcommittees, each subcommittee to consist of one or more members of the committee, and delegate to a subcommittee any or all of the powers and authority of the committee. SECTION 15. Director Compensation. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and a stated annual sum or other compensation for service as director. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for such additional service, including additional compensation for service as a committee chair. ARTICLE IV OFFICERS SECTION 1. General. The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, may also choose one or more Vice-Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation nor, except in the case of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, need such officers be directors of the Corporation. SECTION 2. Election. The Board of Directors at its first meeting held after each Annual Meeting of stockholders shall elect the officers of the Corporation, who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; and all officers of the Corporation shall -8-
hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified, or until their earlier resignation or removal. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors. The compensation of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors or pursuant to such procedure as established by the Board of Directors. SECTION 3. Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation. Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or any Vice-President. Any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation, partnership, trust or other entity in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons. SECTION 4. Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall, unless otherwise designated by the Board of Directors, be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and have general supervision of the business of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect and shall possess the power to sign all contracts, certificates and other instruments of the Corporation that may be authorized by the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors. SECTION 5. President. The President shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Board of Directors, have general supervision of the operations of the Corporation and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Board are carried into effect. In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or if there be none, the President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors. If there be no Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The President shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors. SECTION 6. Vice-Presidents. In the absence or disability of the President and at the request of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President or the Vice-Presidents if there is more than one (in the order designated by the Board of Directors) shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. Each Vice-President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe. If there be no Vice-President, the Board of Directors shall designate the officer of -9-
the Corporation who, in the absence of the President or in the event of the inability or refusal of the President to act, shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. SECTION 7. Secretary. The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of stockholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose. The Secretary shall also perform like duties for the standing committees when requested. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors. If the Secretary shall be unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the stockholders and meetings of the Board of Directors, and if there be no Assistant Secretary, then either the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation, if any, and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, if there be one, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation, if any, and to attest the affixing by his or her signature. The Secretary shall see that all books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept or filed are properly kept or filed, as the case may be. SECTION 8. Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all his or her transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his or her possession or under his or her control belonging to the Corporation. SECTION 9. Assistant Secretaries. Except as may be otherwise provided in these By-Laws, Assistant Secretaries, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice-President, if there be one, or the Secretary, and in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of his or her disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Secretary, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary. SECTION 10. Assistant Treasurers. Assistant Treasurers, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the -10-
Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, a Vice-President, if there be one, or the Treasurer, and in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of his or her disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer. If required by the Board of Directors, an Assistant Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his or her possession or under his or her control belonging to the Corporation. SECTION 11. Other Officers. Such other officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers. ARTICLE V STOCK SECTION 1. Form of Certificates. Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed, in the name of the Corporation (i) by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or a Vice-President and (ii) by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by such holder in the Corporation. SECTION 2. Signatures. Where a certificate is countersigned by (i) a transfer agent other than the Corporation or its employee, or (ii) a registrar other than the Corporation or its employee, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. SECTION 3. Lost Certificates. The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or the owner's legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed. SECTION 4. Transfers. Stock of the Corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these By-Laws. Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation only by the person named in the certificate or by his or her attorney lawfully -11-
constituted in writing and upon the surrender of the certificate therefor, which shall be cancelled before a new certificate shall be issued. SECTION 5. Record Date. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the record date shall be adopted by the Board of Directors and which shall not be more than sixty days nor less than twenty days before the date of such meeting of stockholders, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. SECTION 6. Beneficial Owners. The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends and to vote as such owner, and shall be entitled to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not the Corporation shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by law. ARTICLE VI RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE AND TRANSFER OF STOCK SECTION 1. Certain Definitions. For purposes of this Article: (a) "Beneficial Ownership" of Securities of the Corporation by any Person shall mean ownership of Securities by such Person, whether the interest in the Securities is held directly or indirectly (including by a nominee) and, with respect to any Person but without effect on the determination of the Beneficial Ownership of any Securities by any other Person, shall also include any deemed ownership of any Securities through the application of Section 544 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"), as modified by Section 856(h)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, provided that a Person engaged in business as an underwriter of Securities who acquires Securities through participation in a firm commitment underwriting registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, shall not be considered the beneficial owner of such Securities for purposes of limitations under this Article VI. The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have the power to determine for purposes of this Article, on the basis of information then known to it, the Beneficial Ownership of any Person of Securities of the Corporation. (b) "Convertible Securities" means any debt or equity securities of the Corporation or any contract rights that are convertible into, or afford rights to purchase, shares of any class of capital stock of the Corporation. (c) "Market Value" means, for shares of any class or series of capital stock with a regular trading market, the closing price for such shares on the next preceding business day and, -12-
for any shares of any class or series of capital stock without a regular trading market, such value per share as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation for purposes of this Article, provided that, until any such determination, the Market Value for shares of any class or series of preferred stock shall be deemed to be the stated value per share as stated in the Certificate of Designation for such shares. (d) "Person" includes an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association or other entity and also includes a "group" within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act. (e) "Securities" means shares of capital stock of the Corporation and any Convertible Securities. SECTION 2. Limit on Stock Ownership. No Person may have Beneficial Ownership of more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of the Corporation's common stock (the "Common Stock Limit") or shares of any class of the Corporation's capital stock with an aggregate Market Value exceeding 9.8% of the aggregate Market Value of all outstanding shares of all classes of the Corporation's capital stock (the "Aggregate Value Limit"). No Securities may be issued or transferred to or for the benefit of any Person if, following such issuance or transfer, such Person's Beneficial Ownership of capital stock of the Corporation would exceed the Common Stock Limit or the Aggregate Value Limit. For purposes of the application of such limitations to any Person, any Convertible Securities Beneficially Owned by such Person shall be treated as if all of the capital stock conversion or purchase rights thereof had been exercised. SECTION 3. Transfers in Excess of the Limit. If any Securities are issued or transferred to or for the benefit of any Person in violation of Section 2 hereof, such issuance or transfer shall be valid only with respect to such amount of the Securities as does not result in a violation of Section 2 hereof, and such issuance or transfer shall be null and void with respect to the remainder of such Securities (the "Excess Securities"). If the last clause of the foregoing sentence is determined to be invalid by virtue of any legal decision, statute, rule or regulation, such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have acted as an agent on behalf of the Corporation in acquiring the Excess Securities to hold such Excess Securities on behalf of the Corporation. As the equivalent of treasury securities for such purposes, the Excess Securities shall not be entitled to any voting rights, shall not be considered to be outstanding for quorum or voting purposes, and shall not be entitled to receive dividends, interest or any other distribution with respect to such securities. Any Person who receives dividends, interest or any other distribution in respect of Excess Securities shall hold the same as agent for the Corporation and for the transferee of the Excess Securities following a permitted transfer. SECTION 4. Transfers of Excess Securities. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any holder of Excess Securities may transfer the same (together with any distributions thereon) to any Person who, following such transfer, would not have Beneficial Ownership of Securities of the Corporation in excess of either the Common Stock Limit or the Aggregate Value Limit. Upon such a permitted transfer, the Corporation shall pay or distribute to the transferee any distributions on the Excess Securities not previously paid or distributed. -13-
SECTION 5. Additional Restrictions. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Corporation and its transfer agent may refuse to transfer any shares of capital stock of the Corporation, whether by voluntary transfer, by operation of law, or under the last will and testament of any stockholder, if such transfer would or might, in the opinion of the Board of Directors or counsel to the Corporation, disqualify the Corporation from taxation as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code. Nothing herein contained shall limit the ability of the Corporation to impose or to seek judicial or other imposition of additional restrictions if deemed necessary or advisable to preserve the Corporation's tax status as a qualified real estate investment trust. SECTION 6. Exemption Determinations by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may grant limited exemptions from the restrictions under this Article VI with respect to specified Persons so as to permit such Persons' Beneficial Ownership of capital stock of the Corporation to exceed the Common Stock Limit or the Aggregate Value Limit by such amounts as specified by the Board of Directors upon an affirmative determination by the Board of Directors that each such limited exemption for a specified Person is in the best interests of the Corporation and its stockholders. SECTION 7. Certificate Legend. All certificates representing Securities of the Corporation within the meaning of this Article shall, unless deemed unnecessary by the Board of Directors, be marked with a legend sufficient under the laws of the State of Delaware to provide a purchaser of such Securities with notice of the restrictions on transfer under this Article VI. SECTION 8. Invalidity of Provisions. If any provision of this Article or any application of any such provision is determined to be invalid by any federal or state court having jurisdiction over the issue, the validity of the remaining provisions shall not be affected and other applications of such provision shall be affected only to the extent necessary to comply with the determination of such court. SECTION 9. New York Stock Exchange Transactions. Nothing in this Article VI, including but not limited to Section 5, shall preclude the settlement of any transactions entered into through the facilities of the New York Stock Exchange or any other stock exchange or automatic quotation system of a national securities association. The fact that settlement of any transaction takes place shall not, however, negate the effect of any provision of this Article VI, and any transferee, and the shares of capital stock transferred to such transferee in such a transaction, shall be subject to all of the provisions and limitations in this Article VI. ARTICLE VII BUSINESS COMBINATIONS SECTION 1. Vote Requirement. In addition to any vote otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these By-Laws, a Business Combination, as defined herein, shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), voting together as a single class. -14-
SECTION 2. Exceptions. The provisions of Section 1 of this Article VII shall not apply to any Business Combination if: (a) The Corporation is at the time of the consummation of the Business Combination, and at all times throughout the preceding twelve months has been, directly or indirectly, the owner of a majority of each class of the outstanding Equity Securities, as defined herein, of the Interested Stockholder, as defined herein, that is a party to such transaction; or (b) Such Business Combination has been approved by a majority of the Board of Directors who, at the time such approval is given, were not Affiliates, as defined herein, or nominees of the Interested Stockholder; or (c) Both of the following conditions have been met: (i) The aggregate amount of the cash and the Fair Market Value, as defined herein, of consideration other than cash to be received per share by holders of Voting Stock in such Business Combination shall be at least equal to the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder for any shares of Voting Stock acquired by it (1) within the two-year period immediately prior to the first public announcement of the proposal of the Business Combination or (2) in the transaction in which it became an Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher; and (ii) The consideration to be received by holders of a particular class of outstanding Voting Stock shall be in cash or in the same form as the Interested Stockholder previously paid for shares of such Voting Stock. If the Interested Stockholder paid for shares of any class of Voting Stock with varying forms of consideration, the form of consideration to be paid by the Interested Stockholder for such class of Voting Stock shall be either cash or the form used to acquire the largest number of shares of such class of Voting Stock previously acquired by the Interested Stockholder. SECTION 3. Definitions. For purposes of this Article VII: (a) "Affiliate" or "Associate" shall have the meanings set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. (b) "Beneficial Owner" or "beneficially owned" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act. The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have the power and duty to determine for purposes of this Article, on the basis of information then known to it, whether any person is a beneficial owner of 5% or more of the outstanding Voting Stock. (c) A "Business Combination" shall mean: (i) Any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into (1) any Interested Stockholder (as hereinafter defined) or (2) any other corporation or entity (whether or not itself an Interested Stockholder) which is, or after such -15-
merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate (as herein defined) of an Interested Stockholder; or (ii) Any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) to or with any Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder of substantially all assets of the Corporation; or (iii) Any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or recapitalization of the Corporation or any other transaction (whether or not with or into or otherwise involving an Interested Stockholder) that has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of the outstanding shares of any class of Equity Securities of the Corporation that is directly or indirectly owned by any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder; or (iv) The adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder. (d) "Equity Securities" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 13a11-1 under the Exchange Act. (e) "Fair Market Value" shall mean the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined by the Board of Directors in good faith. (f) "Interested Stockholder" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation (other than the Corporation) or other entity that, as of the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote on any of the transactions described in clauses (i) through (iv) of subsection (c) of this Section 3, or immediately prior to the consummation of any such transaction, is the Beneficial Owner of five percent (5%) or more of the outstanding Voting Stock. ARTICLE VIII GENERAL PROVISIONS SECTION 1. Dividends. Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the restrictions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve. SECTION 2. Disbursements. All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. -16-
SECTION 3. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be a calendar year unless otherwise fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. SECTION 4. Books and Records. Subject to any provision of law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the books and records of the Corporation may be kept at such place or places in Toledo, Ohio, or other place or places, within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. SECTION 5. Notices. Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, such notice may be given by United States mail, addressed to such director, member of a committee or stockholder, at his or her address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be deposited in the United States mail. Written notice may also be given (i) personally, (ii) by nationally recognized express courier service, or (iii) by electronic facsimile, electronic mail transmission, or other electronic transmission, as defined in Section 232 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, if the recipient has consented to both such means of electronic transmission and the address to which the notice is sent, which consent remains in effect. Notice given personally shall be deemed effective when given, notice given by express courier service shall be deemed to be given at the time and on the date recorded by the delivery service as the time and date of delivery, and notice by electronic transmission shall deemed to be given when sent. SECTION 6. Waiver of Notice. Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed, by the person or persons entitled to said notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. SECTION 7. Income Tax Status. The Corporation is a real estate investment trust, and in order for the Corporation to qualify and maintain this status, it must satisfy certain organizational and operational requirements, such as compliance with complex limitations on the type and amount of income and assets that a real estate investment trust may receive or hold. There is no guarantee, however, that the Corporation will qualify or remain qualified as a real estate investment trust in any given taxable year, and the Board of Directors has no obligation to maintain the status of the Corporation as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code. The failure of the Corporation to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code shall not render the directors or officers of the Corporation liable to the stockholders or to any other person. ARTICLE IX INDEMNIFICATION SECTION 1. Indemnification Rights of Directors and Officers. To the full extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law as the same exists or may hereafter be enacted or amended, the Corporation shall indemnify any current or past director or officer of the Corporation who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or -17-
completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee, trustee, partner, agent or fiduciary of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, penalties, and amounts paid in settlement, actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with such threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding. SECTION 2. Expenses Payable in Advance. Expenses incurred by a current or past director or officer in defending or investigating a threatened or pending action, suit or proceeding of the nature referenced in Section 1 of this Article IX shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as provided in this Article IX. SECTION 3. Nonexclusivity of Rights. The rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted pursuant to this Article IX shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any By-Law, agreement, contract, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or pursuant to the direction (howsoever embodied) of any court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise. The provisions of this Article IX shall not be deemed to preclude the indemnification of any person who is not specified in Section 1 of this Article IX but whom the Corporation has the power or obligation to indemnify under the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or otherwise. SECTION 4. Survival of Rights. The rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by this Article IX shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. Any repeal or modification of this Article IX shall not adversely affect any rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses existing pursuant to this Article IX with respect to any acts or omissions occurring prior to such repeal or modification. SECTION 5. Limitation on Indemnification. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article IX to the contrary, except in connection with a claim by a person to enforce rights under this Article IX, the Corporation shall not be obligated under this Article IX to indemnify any person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. ARTICLE X AMENDMENTS SECTION 1. These By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new By-Laws may be adopted by either the stockholders or by the Board of Directors, provided, however, that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new By-Laws be contained in the notice of such meeting of stockholders or Board of Directors as the case may be. Any amendment by the Board of Directors must be approved by a majority of the entire Board of -18-
Directors then in office. Any amendment by the stockholders must be approved by holders of capital stock having a majority of the voting power in the election of directors of all outstanding capital stock of the Corporation voting together as a single class, provided that any amendment by the stockholders to Article III, Sections 1, 3, 6, and 7 of these By-Laws (concerning the number of directors, classification of the Board of Directors, vacancies in the Board of Directors, and removal of directors), Article VI of these By-Laws (concerning restrictions on issuance and transfer of stock) or Article VII of these By-Laws (concerning business combinations) must be approved by holders of capital stock having 75% of the voting power in the election of directors of all outstanding capital stock of the Corporation, voting together as a single class. [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] -19-

EXHIBIT 23 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-46561) dated March 20, 1992 pertaining to The 1985 Incentive Stock Option Plan of Health Care REIT, Inc., the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-1237) dated February 27, 1996 pertaining to The 1985 Incentive Stock Option Plan of Health Care REIT, Inc., the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-01239) dated February 27, 1996 pertaining to the Health Care REIT, Inc. 1995 Stock Incentive Plan, the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-40769) dated November 21, 1997 pertaining to the Health Care REIT, Inc. Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Health Care REIT, Inc., the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-40771) dated November 21, 1997 pertaining to the Health Care REIT, Inc. 1995 Stock Incentive Plan, the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-107280) dated July 23, 2003, as amended on August 1, 2003, and the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-110902) dated December 3, 2003, as amended on December 11, 2003 of Health Care REIT, Inc. of our report dated January 16, 2004 (except for Note 16 as to which the date is September 3, 2004) with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedules of Health Care REIT, Inc. included in this Current Report on Form 8-K. Toledo, Ohio /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP September 3, 2004

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Item 6.
Selected Financial Data
     The following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2003, are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements (in thousands, except per share data).
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Executive Summary
     Health Care REIT, Inc. is a self-administered, equity REIT that invests in health care facilities, primarily skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. We also invest in specialty care facilities. As of December 31, 2003, long-term care facilities, which include skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, comprised approximately 92% of our investment portfolio. Founded in 1970, we were the first REIT to invest exclusively in health care facilities.
     As of December 31, 2003, we had $2,003,466,000 of net real estate investments, inclusive of credit enhancements, in 328 facilities located in 33 states and managed by 47 different operators. At that date, the portfolio included 219 assisted living facilities, 101 skilled nursing facilities and eight specialty care facilities.
     Our primary objectives are to protect stockholders' capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments from annual increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest primarily in long-term care facilities managed by experienced operators and diversify our investment portfolio by operator and geographic location.
     Depending upon the availability and cost of external capital, we anticipate making additional investments in health care related facilities. New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our lines of credit arrangements, internally generated cash and the proceeds derived from asset sales. Permanent financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under the lines of credit arrangements, is expected to be provided through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence of secured debt. We believe our liquidity and various sources of available capital are sufficient to fund operations, meet debt service and dividend requirements and finance future investments.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
     On July 23, 2003, Moody's Investors Service upgraded its rating on our senior unsecured notes from Ba1 to Baa3. The credit strengths noted by Moody's included moderate financial leverage, negligible secured debt, strong portfolio management and underwriting skills and improved portfolio fundamentals in our skilled nursing and assisted living facilities.
     In August and September 2003, we solicited the consents of registered holders of our senior unsecured notes to the adoption of certain amendments to the Indenture, dated as of April 17, 1997 (as amended and supplemented) (the "1997 Indenture"), with Fifth Third Bank, as trustee (the "Trustee"), and the Indenture, dated as of September 6, 2002 (as amended and supplemented) (the "2002 Indenture"), with the Trustee. After receiving the requisite number of consents, we entered into Supplemental Indenture No. 5 to the 1997 Indenture with the Trustee and Supplemental Indenture No. 2 to the 2002 Indenture with the Trustee. As amended, the supplemental indentures modify the indentures to require us to (a) limit the use of secured debt to 40% of undepreciated assets, (b) limit total debt to 60% of undepreciated total assets, and (c) maintain total unencumbered assets at 150% of total secured debt. These amendments to all of our then outstanding $615,000,000 of senior unsecured notes are intended to modernize the covenant package and make it consistent with other investment-grade REITs. The $250,000,000 in senior unsecured notes issued in November 2003 have the same covenant package.
     The following table summarizes our capital activity during the year ended December 31, 2003 (in thousands):
     During the year ended December 31, 2003, the holder of our Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock converted 2,100,000 shares into 2,049,000 shares of common stock. At December 31, 2003, all of the shares of Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock had been converted into common stock.
     In July 2003, we instituted our enhanced dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan ("DRIP"). Existing stockholders, in addition to reinvesting dividends, may now purchase up to $5,000 of common stock per month at a discount. Investors who are not stockholders of the Company may now make an initial investment in the Company through the DRIP with a minimum of a $1,000 purchase. In some instances, we may permit investments in excess of $5,000 per month if we approve a request for a waiver. During the year ended December 31, 2003, we issued 1,452,000 shares of common stock under the standard provisions of our DRIP, which generated net proceeds of approximately $43,615,000. Additionally, we issued 825,000 shares of common stock under our DRIP waiver program, which generated net proceeds of approximately $25,245,000. As of December 11, 2003 we had an effective registration statement on file
 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission under which we may issue up to 6,314,213 shares of common stock pursuant to the DRIP. As of March 11, 2004, 5,735,402 shares of common stock remained available for issuance under this registration statement.
     On July 9, 2003, we closed a public offering of 4,000,000 shares of 7.875% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, which generated net proceeds of approximately $96,850,000. The shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at par on or after July 9, 2008. A portion of the proceeds from this offering were used to redeem all 3,000,000 shares of our 8.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock on July 15, 2003, at a redemption price of $25.00 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends.
     On September 29, 2003, we issued 1,060,000 shares of 6% Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock as partial consideration for an acquisition of assets by the Company, with the shares valued at $26,500,000 for such purposes. The shares were issued to Southern Assisted Living, Inc. and certain of its stockholders without registration in reliance upon the federal statutory exemption of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at par on or after August 15, 2008. The preferred shares are convertible into common stock at a conversion price of $32.66 per share at any time. During the year ended December 31, 2003, certain holders of our Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock converted 229,600 shares into 175,700 shares of common stock. At December 31, 2003, we had 830,400 shares of Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock outstanding.
     During 2003, we invested $378,342,000 in real property, provided permanent mortgage and loan financings of $78,245,000, made construction advances of $32,071,000 and funded $27,410,000 of subdebt investments. As of December 31, 2003, we had approximately $15,501,000 in unfunded construction commitments. Also during 2003, we sold real property generating $65,455,000 of net proceeds and collected $55,847,000 and $1,234,000 as repayment of principal on loans receivable and subdebt investments, respectively.
     As of December 31, 2003, we had stockholders' equity of $1,149,679,000 and a total outstanding debt balance of $1,013,184,000, which represents a debt to total capitalization ratio of 0.47 to 1.0.
     In May 2003, we announced the amendment and extension of our primary unsecured revolving line of credit. The line of credit was expanded to $225,000,000, expires in May 2006 (with the ability to extend for one year at our discretion if we are in compliance with all covenants) and currently bears interest at the lender's prime rate or LIBOR plus 1.3%, at our option. In August 2003, we further amended the line of credit to modify certain financial covenants that will enhance our financial flexibility and align our covenant package with other investment grade REITs. Finally, in December 2003 and January 2004, we expanded this line of credit to $310,000,000.
     Also in May 2003, we repaid our $4,000,000 secured note and terminated the corresponding agreement. At the same time, we increased our $25,000,000 unsecured line of credit to $30,000,000. This line of credit bears interest at the lender's prime rate or 2.0% plus LIBOR, at our option, and expires in May 2004. Also, at December 31, 2003, we had a secured line of credit in the amount of $60,000,000 bearing interest at the lender's prime rate or LIBOR plus 2.0%, at our option, with a floor of 7.0% that expired in February 2004. We do not intend to replace this secured facility. At December 31, 2003, we had no borrowings outstanding under the unsecured or secured lines of credit arrangements.
     As of March 11, 2004, we had an effective shelf registration on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission under which we may issue up to $581,794,619 of securities including debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate issuing securities under our shelf registration to invest in additional health care facilities and to repay borrowings under our lines of credit arrangements.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
     We have guaranteed the payment of industrial revenue bonds for one assisted living facility in the event that the present owner defaults upon its obligations. In consideration for this guaranty, we receive and recognize fees annually related to this arrangement. This guaranty expires upon the repayment of the industrial revenue bonds which currently mature in 2009. At December 31, 2003, we were contingently liable for $3,195,000 under this guaranty.
 
Contractual Obligations
     The following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2003 (in thousands):
     We have an unsecured credit arrangement with a consortium of eight banks providing for a revolving line of credit ("revolving credit") in the amount of $310,000,000, which expires on May 15, 2006. The agreement specifies that borrowings under the revolving credit are subject to interest payable in periods no longer than three months on either the agent bank's prime rate of interest or 1.3% over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (2.43% at December 31, 2003). In addition, we pay a commitment fee based on an annual rate of 0.325% and an annual agent's fee of $50,000. Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement. We have another unsecured line of credit arrangement with a bank for a total of $30,000,000, which expires May 31, 2004. Borrowings under this line of credit are subject to interest at either the bank's prime rate of interest or 2.00% over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (4.00% at December 31, 2003) and are due on demand. We had a $60,000,000 secured line of credit with interest at the lender's prime rate or 2.0% over LIBOR, at our option, with a floor of 7.0% (7.0% at December 31, 2003) that expired in February 2004. We do not intend to replace this secured facility. At December 31, 2003, we had no borrowings outstanding under the unsecured or secured lines of credit arrangements. As such, we had no contractual interest obligations related to unsecured or secured lines of credit at December 31, 2003.
     We have $865,000,000 of senior unsecured notes with fixed annual interest rates ranging from 6.00% to 8.17%, payable semi-annually. Contractual interest obligations on senior unsecured notes totaled $428,644,000 at December 31, 2003. Additionally, we have 30 mortgage loans totaling $148,184,000, collateralized by health care facilities, with fixed annual interest rates ranging from 6.18% to 12.00%, payable monthly. The carrying values of the health care properties securing the mortgage loans totaled $219,575,000 at December 31, 2003. Contractual interest obligations on mortgage loans totaled $59,372,000 at December 31, 2003.
     At December 31, 2003, we had operating lease obligations of $10,758,000 relating to Company office space and six assisted living facilities.
     Purchase obligations are comprised of unfunded construction commitments and contingent purchase obligations. At December 31, 2003, we had outstanding construction financings of $14,865,000 ($14,701,000 for leased properties and $164,000 for construction loans) and were committed to providing additional financing of approximately $15,501,000 to complete construction. At December 31, 2003, we had contingent purchase obligations totaling $62,443,000. These contingent purchase obligations primarily relate to deferred acquisition fundings. Deferred acquisition fundings are contingent upon an operator satisfying certain conditions such as payment coverage and value tests. Rents due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.
Results of Operations December 31, 2003 vs. December 31, 2002
     Revenues were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):
     We generated increased rental income as a result of the acquisition of properties for which we receive rent. This was partially offset by a reduction in interest income due to lower average yields on our loans receivable and non-recognition of interest income related to our
 
mortgage loan with Doctors Community Health Care Corporation. Transaction fees and other income increased primarily as a result of the gain from the sale of our investment in Atlantic Healthcare Finance L.P.
     Expenses were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):
     The increase in interest expense from 2002 to 2003 was primarily due to higher average borrowings during the year. This was partially offset by lower average interest rates and an increase in the amount of capitalized interest offsetting interest expense.
     We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used to finance the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. Capitalized interest for the year ended December 31, 2003, totaled $1,535,000, as compared with $170,000 for the same period in 2002.
     The provision for depreciation increased primarily as a result of additional investments in properties owned directly by us.
     General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues (including revenues from discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2003, were 5.39% as compared with 5.83% for the same period in 2002.
     The increase in loan expense was primarily due to the additional amortization of costs related to the unsecured lines of credit amendments and costs related to obtaining consents to modify the covenant packages of our senior unsecured notes.
     During the year ended December 31, 2003, it was determined that the projected undiscounted cash flows from a property did not exceed its related net book value and an impairment charge of $2,792,000 was recorded to reduce the property to its estimated fair market value. The estimated fair market value of the property was determined by an independent appraisal. During the year ended December 31, 2002, it was determined that the projected undiscounted cash flows from three properties did not exceed their related net book values and impairment charges of $2,298,000 were recorded to reduce the properties to their estimated fair market values. The estimated fair market values of the properties were determined by offers to purchase received from third parties or estimated net sales proceeds.
     In April 2002, we purchased $35,000,000 of our outstanding senior unsecured notes that were due in 2003 and recorded a charge of $403,000 in connection with this early extinguishment.
     Due to increased collectibility concerns related to portions of our loan portfolio, we increased our allowance for losses on loans receivable by an additional $1,870,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003.
     Other items were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):
     During the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, we sold properties with carrying values of $61,316,000 and $53,311,000 for net gains of $4,139,000 and net losses of $1,032,000, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2004, we sold properties with carrying values of $33,808,000 for net gains of $1,129,000. In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
 
No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We adopted the standard effective January 1, 2002. In accordance with Statement No. 144, we have reclassified the income and expenses attributable to the properties sold subsequent to January 1, 2002 to discontinued operations. These properties generated $3,969,000 and $6,973,000 of income after deducting depreciation and interest expense from rental revenue for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
     The decrease in preferred dividends is primarily due to the reduction in average outstanding preferred shares. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the holder of our Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock converted 2,100,000 shares into 2,049,000 shares of common stock, leaving no shares outstanding at December 31, 2003 as compared to 2,100,000 at December 31, 2002.
     In September 2003, we issued 1,060,000 shares of 6% Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock. During the three months ended December 31, 2003, certain holders of our Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock converted 229,600 shares into 175,700 shares of common stock, leaving 830,400 outstanding at December 31, 2003.
     In July 2003, we closed a public offering of 4,000,000 shares of 7.875% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. A portion of the proceeds from this offering were used to redeem all 3,000,000 shares of our 8.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock on July 15, 2003. In accordance with EITF Topic D-42, the costs to issue these securities were recorded as a non-cash, non-recurring charge of $2,790,000, or $0.06 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2003 to reduce net income available to common stockholders.
     As a result of the various factors mentioned above, net income available to common stockholders was $70,732,000, or $1.60 per diluted share, for 2003 as compared with $55,191,000, or $1.48 per diluted share, for 2002. Excluding the impact of the unusual and non-recurring preferred stock redemption charge, net income available to common stockholders was $73,522,000, or $1.66 per diluted share, for 2003.
Results of Operations December 31, 2002 vs. December 31, 2001
     Revenues were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):
     We generated increased rental income as a result of the acquisition of properties for which we receive rent. This was partially offset by a reduction in interest income due to the repayment of mortgage loans. Transaction fees and other income decreased primarily as a result of the completion of construction projects.
     During 2001, we received payoffs on mortgages that had significant prepayment fee requirements, generating $990,000 in that year. During 2002, we did not receive any prepayment fees with respect to mortgage loan payoffs.
     Expenses were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):
 
     The increase in interest expense from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher average borrowings during the year and a reduction in the amount of capitalized interest offsetting interest expense.
     We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used to finance the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. Capitalized interest for the year ended December 31, 2002, totaled $170,000, as compared with $841,000 for the same period in 2001.
     The provision for depreciation increased primarily as a result of additional investments in properties owned directly by us.
     General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues (including revenues from discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2002, were 5.83% as compared with 6.03% for the same period in 2001.
     The increase in loan expense was primarily due to the additional amortization of costs related to the unsecured line of credit renewal and the senior unsecured notes issued in 2001 and 2002.
     During the year ended December 31, 2002, it was determined that the projected undiscounted cash flows from three properties did not exceed their related net book values and impairment charges of $2,298,000 were recorded to reduce the properties to their estimated fair market values. The estimated fair market values of the properties were determined by offers to purchase received from third parties or estimated net sales proceeds.
     In April 2002, we purchased $35,000,000 of our outstanding senior unsecured notes that were due in 2003 and recorded a charge of $403,000 in connection with this early extinguishment. In September 2001, we purchased $7,750,000 of our outstanding unsecured senior notes that were due in 2002 and recorded a charge of $213,000 in connection with this early extinguishment.
     Other items were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):
     During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, we sold properties with carrying values of $61,316,000, $53,311,000 and $23,829,000 for net gains of $4,139,000, net losses of $1,032,000 and net losses of $1,250,000, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2004, we sold properties with carrying values of $33,808,000 for net gains of $1,129,000. In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We adopted the standard effective January 1, 2002. In accordance with Statement No. 144, we have reclassified the income and expenses attributable to the properties sold subsequent to January 1, 2002 to discontinued operations. These properties generated $6,973,000 and $7,783,000 of income after deducting depreciation and interest expense from rental revenue for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
     The decrease in preferred dividends is primarily due to the reduction in average outstanding preferred shares. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the holder of our Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock converted 900,000 shares into 878,000 shares of common stock, leaving 2,100,000 shares outstanding at December 31, 2002, as compared to 3,000,000 at December 31, 2001.
     As a result of the various factors mentioned above, net income available to common stockholders was $55,191,000, or $1.48 per diluted share, for 2002 as compared with $47,044,000, or $1.52 per diluted share, for 2001.
Critical Accounting Policies
     Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require us to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). We believe that of our significant accounting policies, the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition
     Revenue is recorded in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements ("SAB 101"), as amended. SAB 101 requires that revenue be recognized after four basic criteria are met. These four criteria include persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and determinable income and reasonably assured collectibility. If the collectibility of revenue is determined incorrectly, the amount and timing of our reported revenue could be significantly affected. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to
 
an evaluation of collectibility risk. Operating lease income generally includes base rent payments plus fixed annual rent increases, which are recognized on a straight-line basis over the minimum lease period subject to an evaluation of collectibility risk. This lease income is greater than the amount of cash received during the first half of the lease term. In some instances, the leases provide for additional payment of rent if the gross operating revenues from the property exceed a predetermined threshold. Revenues are not recognized until those thresholds have been met.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
     The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to determine if there are indicators of impairment. These indicators may include anticipated operating losses at the property level, the tenant's inability to make rent payments, a decision to dispose of an asset before the end of its estimated useful life and changes in the market that may permanently reduce the value of the property. If indicators of impairment exist, then the undiscounted future cash flows from the most likely use of the property are compared to the current net book value. If the undiscounted cash flows are less than the net book value, an impairment loss would be recognized to the extent that the net book value exceeds the current fair market value. This analysis requires us to determine if indicators of impairment exist and to estimate the most likely stream of cash flows to be generated from the property during the period the property is expected to be held. If the projections or assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge and reduce the net book value of the property owned.
Allowance for Loan Losses
     The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including general economic conditions and estimated collectibility of loan payments and principal. We evaluate the collectibility of our loans receivable based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of the underlying property. If such factors indicate that there is greater risk of loan charge-offs, additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the contractual terms of the original loan agreement. Consitent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. To the extent circumstances improve and the risk of collectibility is diminished, we will return these loans to full accrual status.
Depreciation and Useful Lives
     We compute depreciation on our properties using the straight-line method based on their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for improvements. A significant portion of the acquisition cost of each property is allocated to building (usually approximately 90%). The allocation of the acquisition cost to building and the determination of the useful life of a property are based on appraisals commissioned from independent real estate appraisal firms. If we do not allocate appropriately to the building or if we incorrectly estimate the useful life of our properties, the computation of depreciation will not appropriately reflect the carrying values of the properties over future periods.
Impact of Inflation
     During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation rate. Additionally, our earnings are primarily long-term investments with fixed rates of return. These investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured notes and borrowings under our lines of credit arrangements. During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest rates, our ability to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs. Presuming the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not increase significantly, we believe that inflation will not impact the availability of equity and debt financing.
 
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
     We have made and incorporated by reference statements in this Form 10-K that constitute "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements concern:
     When we use words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate" or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guaranties of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Our expected results may not be achieved and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to:
Risk factors related to our operators' revenues and expenses
     Our skilled nursing and specialty care facility operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and private pay rates. Our assisted living facility operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy and private pay rates. Expenses for these three types of facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue, to come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. Liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for our operators. To the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a facility not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon.
Risk factors related to operator bankruptcies
     We are exposed to the risk that our operators may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an operator bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an operator might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease agreements provide us the right to evict an operator, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our mortgage loans provide us the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. An operator in bankruptcy may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a mortgage loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies.
     The receipt of liquidation proceeds or the replacement of an operator that has defaulted on its lease or loan could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. In addition, we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of a facility, avoid the imposition of liens on a facility and/or to transition a facility to a new operator. In some instances, we have terminated our lease with an operator and relet the facility to another operator. In some of those situations, we provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new operator. If we cannot transition a leased facility to a new operator, we may take possession of that facility, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected.
     On November 20, 2002, Doctors Community Health Care Corporation and five subsidiaries ("Doctors") filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Columbia. Doctors stated that its bankruptcy filing was due to the bankruptcy of National Century Financial Enterprises and affiliates, which halted payments to health care providers, including Doctors. We have provided mortgage financing to Doctors in the form of a loan secured by the Pacifica Hospital of the Valley in Sun Valley, CA, and the other assets of the Pacifica of the Valley Corporation, one of the debtor subsidiaries. The outstanding principal balance of the loan was approximately $18,797,000 on December 31, 2003. Pursuant to procedures approved by the bankruptcy court, the assets of Doctors were the subject of an auction held on December 10 through December 16, 2003. At the conclusion of that auction, the debtors' independent director declared certain members of Doctors' management the winning bidder. Their bid contemplates a reorganization of Doctors and its subsidiaries with new equity and debt capitalization. The results of this auction are subject to bankruptcy court approval, which the debtors have stated they intend to seek in connection with a hearing on the confirmation of the debtors' proposed plan of reorganization. Doctors anticipates that this hearing should occur in March or April 2004. Doctors did not
 
make an interest payment for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003. We will not recognize any interest on the loan until payment is received.
     Alterra Healthcare Corporation ("Alterra") filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on January 23, 2003 in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. We have a master lease with Alterra for 45 assisted living facilities with a depreciated book value of $103,293,000 million at December 31, 2003. A joint venture between Fortress Investment Group LLC and Emeritus Corporation was the winning bidder at a bankruptcy auction held on July 17, 2003. The bankruptcy court confirmed Alterra's plan of reorganization on November 26, 2003. In connection with confirmation of Alterra's plan, our master lease was assumed and the acquisition of Alterra by the Fortress-Emeritus joint venture was approved. This transaction has closed. Alterra remained current on rental payments throughout the bankruptcy process.
Risk factors related to government regulations
     Our operators' businesses are affected by government reimbursement and private payor rates. To the extent that any skilled nursing or specialty care facility receives a significant portion of its revenues from governmental payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such facility. In recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. This trend in health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of the skilled nursing industry, the specialty care industry or on the health care industry in general. There can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be available for services provided by any facility operator, whether the facility receives reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an operator's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us. See "Item 1  Business  Certain Government Regulations  Reimbursement" above.
Risk factors related to liability claims and insurance costs
     Long-term care facility operators (assisted living and skilled nursing facilities) have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims in recent years, particularly in the states of Texas and Florida. As a result, general and professional liability costs have increased and may continue to increase. Nationwide, long-term care liability insurance rates are increasing because of large jury awards in states like Texas and Florida. Over the past two years, both Texas and Florida have adopted skilled nursing facility liability laws that modify or limit tort damages. Despite some of these reforms, the long-term care industry overall continues to experience very high general and professional liability costs. Insurance companies have responded to this claim crisis by severely restricting their capacity to write long-term care general and professional liability policies. No assurances can be given that the climate for long-term care general and professional liability insurance will improve in any of the foregoing states or any other states where the facility operators conduct business. Insurance companies may continue to reduce or stop writing general and professional liability policies for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. Thus, general professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the facility operators' future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the facility operators' ability to meet their obligations to us.
Risk factors related to acquisitions
     We are exposed to the risk that our future acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. If we agree to provide construction financing to an operator and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project or we could lose the property. Moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results. These costs may negatively affect our results of operations.
Risk factors related to environmental laws
     Under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination. These laws also expose us to the possibility that we become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person's relationship to the property. Our lessees or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property and since we are a passive landlord, we do not "participate in the management" of any property in which we have an interest. Moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to meet the "all appropriate inquiry" standard, which qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition.
 
Risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds
     From time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of shares of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. We must re-invest these proceeds, on a timely basis, in health care investments or in qualified short-term investments. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. This competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. Delays in acquiring properties may negatively impact revenues and perhaps our ability to increase our distributions to stockholders.
Risk factors related to our structure
     We are also subject to a number of risks on the corporate level. First, we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. We intend to operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of federal taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. Also, if we were not a REIT, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-REIT is not required to pay dividends to stockholders amounting to at least 90% of its annual taxable income. See "Item 1  Business  Taxation" for a discussion of the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code that apply to us and the effects of non-qualification.
     Second, our Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws contain anti-takeover provisions (staggered board provisions, restrictions on share ownership and transfer, and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent Board of Directors. Further, we have a "poison pill" rights plan that has anti-takeover effects. The rights plan, if triggered, would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by the Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.
     Third, we are dependent on key personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. We believe that losing more than one would have a material adverse impact on our business.
 
Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Stockholders and Directors Health Care REIT, Inc.
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Health Care REIT, Inc. as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15 (a). These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedules based on our audits.
     We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Health Care REIT, Inc. at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
     As discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2003 the Company adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. As discussed in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2002 the Company adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.
Toledo, Ohio January 16, 2004 except for Note 16, as to which the date is September 3, 2004
 
 
 
     
[Additional columns below]
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
See accompanying notes
 
See accompanying notes
 
1. Accounting Policies and Related Matters
Industry
     We are a self-administered, equity real estate investment trust that invests primarily in long-term care facilities, which include skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. We also invest in specialty care facilities.
Principles of Consolidation
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and our wholly owned subsidiaries after the elimination of all significant intercompany accounts and transactions.
Use of Estimates
     The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
     Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Loans Receivable
     Loans receivable consist of mortgage loans, construction loans, working capital loans and subdebt investments. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectibility risks. The mortgage loans are primarily collateralized by a first or second mortgage lien or leasehold mortgage on or assignment of partnership interest in the related facilities. The working capital loans are generally secured by interests in receivables and corporate guaranties. Subdebt investments represent debt instruments to operators of facilities that have been financed by us. These obligations are generally secured by the operator's leasehold rights and corporate guaranties.
Real Property Owned
     Real property owned consists of land, buildings and improvements owned by us. The allocation of the acquisition costs of properties is based on appraisals commissioned from independent real estate appraisal firms. Substantially all of the properties owned by us are leased under operating leases and are recorded at cost. These properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for improvements. The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to determine if facts and circumstances suggest that the assets may be impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider external factors relating to each asset. If these external factors and the projected undiscounted cash flows of the asset over the remaining depreciation period indicate that the asset will not be recoverable, the carrying value will be adjusted to the estimated fair market value. The leases generally extend for a minimum seven-year period and provide for payment of all taxes, insurance and maintenance by the tenants. In general, operating lease income includes base rent payments plus fixed annual rent increases, which are recognized on a straight-line basis over the minimum lease period subject to an evaluation of collectibility risks. This income is greater than the amount of cash received during the first half of the lease term.
Capitalization of Construction Period Interest
     We capitalize interest costs associated with funds used to finance the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest which approximates our cost of financing.
     We capitalized interest costs of $1,535,000, $170,000, and $841,000, during 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, related to construction of real property owned by us. Our interest expense reflected in the consolidated statements of income has been reduced by the amounts capitalized.
Deferred Loan Expenses
     Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection with the issuance and amendments of short-term and long-term debt. We amortize these costs over the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the interest yield method.
 
Allowance for Loan Losses
     The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including general economic conditions and estimated collectibility of loan payments. We evaluate the collectibility of our loans receivable based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of the underlying property. If such factors indicate that there is greater risk of loan charge-offs, additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the contractual terms of the original loan agreement. Consitent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. At December 31, 2003, we had loans with outstanding balances of $30,523,000 on non-accrual status ($15,311,000 at December 31, 2002). A significant portion of this balance relates to our mortgage loan with Doctors Community Health Care Corporation. To the extent circumstances improve and the risk of collectibility is diminished, we will return these loans to full accrual status.
Equity Investments
     We had an investment in Atlantic Healthcare Finance L.P., a property group that specializes in the financing, through sale and leaseback transactions, of nursing and care homes located in the United Kingdom. This investment was accounted for using the equity method of accounting because we had the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee due to our 31% ownership interest. In October 2003, we sold our investment in Atlantic Healthcare Finance L.P. generating a net gain of $902,000.
     Other equity investments, which consist of investments in private and public companies for which we do not have the ability to exercise influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method of accounting, investments in private companies are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, distributions of earnings and additional investments. For investments in public companies that have readily determinable fair market values, we classify our equity investments as available-for-sale and, accordingly, record these investments at their fair market values with unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of stockholders' equity. These investments represent a minimal ownership interest in these companies.
Foreign Currency Translation
     For our investment in Atlantic Healthcare Finance L.P., the functional currency was the local currency. The income and expenses of the entity were translated into U.S. dollars using the average exchange rates for the reporting period to derive our equity earnings. Translation adjustments were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of stockholders' equity.
Transaction Fees
     Transaction fees are earned by us for our agreement to provide direct and standby financing to, and credit enhancement for, owners and operators of health care facilities. We amortize transaction fees over the initial fixed term of the lease, the loan or the construction period related to such investments.
Federal Income Tax
     No provision has been made for federal income taxes since we have elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and we believe that we have met the requirements for qualification as such for each taxable year. See Note 11.
Net Income Per Share
     Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the period adjusted for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings per share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that the number of shares is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
     Accumulated other comprehensive income includes unrealized gains or losses on our equity investments ($1,000 and $12,000 at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively) and foreign currency translation adjustments ($0 and
 
($182,000) at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively). These items are included as components of stockholders' equity.
New Accounting Standards
     In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 62, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections. Statement 145 requires gains and losses on extinguishments of debt to be classified as income or loss from continuing operations rather than as extraordinary items as previously required under Statement 4. Extraordinary treatment will be required for certain extinguishments as provided in APB Opinion No. 30. Statement 145 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2002. We adopted the standard effective January 1, 2003.
     Effective January 1, 2003, we commenced recognizing compensation expense for employee stock options in accordance with Statement 123 on a prospective basis. See Note 9.
     In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (the Interpretation). The Interpretation requires the consolidation of variable interest entities in which an enterprise absorbs a majority of the entity's expected losses, receives a majority of the entity's expected residual returns, or both, as a result of ownership, contractual or other financial interests in the entity. Currently, entities are generally consolidated by an enterprise that has a controlling financial interest through ownership of a majority voting interest in the entity. The Interpretation is effective for financial statements issued for the first period ending after March 15, 2004. We are currently evaluating the effects, if any, of the issuance of the Interpretation.
     In May 2003, the FASB issued Statement No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity. Statement 150 requires that certain financial instruments be classified as liabilities (or assets in certain circumstances) rather than as equity. Statement 150 is effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. We adopted the standard effective July 1, 2003 and have determined that none of our financial instruments are impacted by Statement 150.
     Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Topic D-42, The Effect on the Calculation of Earnings per Share for the Redemption or Induced Conversion of Preferred Stock, provides, among other things, that any excess of (1) the fair value of the consideration transferred to the holders of preferred stock redeemed over (2) the carrying amount of the preferred stock should be subtracted from net earnings to determine net income available to common stockholders in the calculation of earnings per share. At the July 31, 2003 meeting of the EITF, the Securities and Exchange Commission Observer clarified that for purposes of applying EITF Topic D-42, the carrying amount of the preferred stock should be reduced by the issuance costs of the preferred stock, regardless of where in the stockholders' equity section those costs were initially classified upon issuance. On July 15, 2003, we redeemed all 3,000,000 shares of our 8.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. The costs to issue these securities were recorded as a reduction to paid-in capital, and to implement the clarified accounting pronouncement, we recorded a non-cash, non-recurring charge of $2,790,000, or $0.06 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2003 to reduce net income available to common stockholders.
2. Loans Receivable
     The following is a summary of loans receivable (in thousands):
     Loans to related parties (an entity whose ownership includes one Company director) included above are at rates comparable to other third-party borrowers equal to or greater than our net interest cost on borrowings to support such loans. The amount of interest income and commitment fees from related parties amounted to $36,000, $59,000, and $108,000 for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
     The following is a summary of mortgage loans at December 31, 2003:
 
     The following table summarizes certain information about our real property owned as of December 31, 2003 (dollars in thousands):
 
     At December 31, 2003, future minimum lease payments receivable under operating leases are as follows (in thousands):
     We purchased $12,433,000, $33,972,000 and $13,683,000 of real property that had previously been financed by the Company with loans in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. We converted $36,794,000 of completed construction projects into operating lease properties in 2003. We acquired properties which included the assumption of mortgages totaling $101,243,000 and $2,248,000 in 2003 and 2002, respectively. These non-cash activities are appropriately not reflected in the accompanying statements of cash flows.
     During the year ended December 31, 2003, it was determined that the projected undiscounted cash flows from a property did not exceed its related net book value and an impairment charge of $2,792,000 was recorded to reduce the property to its estimated fair market value. The estimated fair market value of the property was determined by an independent appraisal. During the year ended December 31, 2002, it was determined that the projected undiscounted cash flows from three properties did not exceed their related net book values and impairment charges of $2,298,000 were recorded to reduce the properties to their estimated fair market values. The estimated fair market values of the properties were determined by offers to purchase received from third parties or estimated net sales proceeds.
     As of December 31, 2003, long-term care facilities, which include skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, comprised 92% (92% at December 31, 2002) of our real estate investments and were located in 33 states. Investments in assisted living facilities comprised 60% (57% at December 31, 2002) of our real estate investments. The following table summarizes certain information about our operator concentration as of December 31, 2003 (dollars in thousands):
 
     The following is a summary of the allowance for loan losses (in thousands):
     We have an unsecured credit arrangement with a consortium of eight banks providing for a revolving line of credit ("revolving credit") in the amount of $310,000,000, which expires on May 15, 2006. The agreement specifies that borrowings under the revolving credit are subject to interest payable in periods no longer than three months on either the agent bank's prime rate of interest or 1.3% over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (2.43% at December 31, 2003). In addition, we pay a commitment fee based on an annual rate of 0.325% and an annual agent's fee of $50,000. Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement. We have another unsecured line of credit arrangement with a bank for a total of $30,000,000, which expires May 31, 2004. Borrowings under this line of credit are subject to interest at either the bank's prime rate of interest or 2.00% over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (4.00% at December 31, 2003) and are due on demand.
     The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the unsecured lines of credit arrangements (in thousands, except percentages):
7. Senior Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt
     We have $865,000,000 of senior unsecured notes with annual interest rates ranging from 6.00% to 8.17%.
     We have 30 mortgage loans totaling $148,184,000, collateralized by health care facilities with annual interest rates ranging from 6.18% to 12.00%. The carrying values of the health care properties securing the mortgage loans totaled $219,575,000 at December 31, 2003.
     We have a $60,000,000 secured line of credit with interest at the lender's prime rate or 2.0% over LIBOR, at our option, with a floor of 7.0% (7.0% at December 31, 2003) that expires in February 2004. We do not intend to renew or replace this secured facility.
 
     Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions.
     At December 31, 2003, the annual principal payments on these long-term obligations are as follows (in thousands):
8. Stock Incentive Plans and Retirement Arrangements
     Our 1995 Stock Incentive Plan authorizes up to 4,024,673 shares of common stock to be issued at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The 1995 Plan replaced the 1985 Incentive Stock Option Plan. The options granted under the 1985 Plan continue to vest through 2005 and expire ten years from the date of grant. Our officers and key salaried employees are eligible to participate in the 1995 Plan. The 1995 Plan allows for the issuance of stock options, restricted stock grants and Dividend Equivalency Rights. There were no Dividend Equivalency Rights outstanding under the 1995 Plan for any of the years presented. In addition, we have a Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, which authorizes up to 432,000 shares to be issued.
     The following summarizes the activity in the plans for the years ended December 31 (shares in thousands):
     Vesting periods for options and restricted shares range from six months for directors to five years for officers and key salaried employees. Options expire ten years from the date of grant. We granted 110,000, 8,000, and 75,750 restricted shares during 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, including 12,000, 8,000, and 8,000 shares for directors in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Expense, which is recognized as the shares vest based on the market value at the date of the award, totaled $1,984,000, $1,555,000 and $1,164,000, in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2003 (shares in thousands):
     We have a 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan and Money Purchase Pension Plan ("the Plans") covering all eligible employees. Under the Plans, eligible employees may make contributions, and we may make matching contributions and a profit sharing contribution. Our contributions to these Plans totaled $206,000, $184,000 and $175,000 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
     We have a non-qualified senior executive retirement plan designed to provide pension benefits for certain officers. Pension benefits are based on compensation and length of service and the plan is unfunded. The accrued liability for the plan was $412,000 at December 31, 2003 ($206,000 at December 31, 2002).
9. Other Equity
     Other equity consists of the following (in thousands):
     Unamortized restricted stock represents the unamortized value of restricted stock granted to employees and directors. Expense, which is recognized as the shares vest based on the market value at the date of the award, totaled $1,182,000, $1,555,000 and $1,164,000 for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
     In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure, which we are required to adopt for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2002, with transition provisions for certain matters. Statement 148 amends FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation. In addition, Statement 148 amends the disclosure requirements of Statement 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. Effective January 1, 2003, we commenced recognizing compensation expense in accordance with Statement 123 on a prospective basis. Accumulated option compensation expense represents the amount of amortized compensation costs related to stock options awarded to employees and directors in 2003.
     The following table illustrates the effect on net income available to common stockholders if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of Statement 123 to stock-based compensation for options granted since 1995 but prior to adoption at January 1, 2003 (in thousands, except per share data):
 
     The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:
 
10. Preferred Stock
     In January 1999, we sold 3,000,000 shares of Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. These shares had a liquidation value of $25.00 per share and paid dividends equivalent to the greater of (i) the annual dividend rate of $2.25 per share (a quarterly dividend rate of $0.5625 per share); or (ii) the quarterly dividend then payable per common share on an as converted basis. The preferred shares were convertible into common stock at a conversion price of $25.625 per share. We had the right to redeem the preferred shares after five years. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the holder of our Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock converted 2,100,000 shares into 2,049,000 shares of common stock. At December 31, 2003, the Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock has been fully converted into common stock.
     In July 2003, we closed a public offering of 4,000,000 shares of 7.875% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at par plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the redemption date on or after July 9, 2008. A portion of the proceeds from this offering were used to redeem all 3,000,000 shares of our 8.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock on July 15, 2003, at a redemption price of $25.00 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends.
     In September 2003, we issued 1,060,000 shares of 6% Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock as partial consideration for an acquisition of assets by the Company, with the shares valued at $26,500,000 for such purposes. The shares were issued to Southern Assisted Living, Inc. and certain of its stockholders without registration in reliance upon the federal statutory exemption of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at par plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the redemption date on or after August 15, 2008. The preferred shares are convertible into common stock at a conversion price of $32.66 per share at any time. During the three months ended December 31, 2003, certain holders of our Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock converted 229,600 shares into 175,700 shares of common stock, leaving 830,400 outstanding at December 31, 2003.
11. Income Taxes and Distributions
     To qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, 90% of taxable income (including 100% of capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders. Real estate investment trusts that do not distribute a certain amount of current year taxable income in the current year are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The principal reasons for the difference between undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and financial statement purposes are the recognition of straight-line rent for reporting purposes, different useful lives and depreciation methods for real property and the provision for loan losses for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes. Cash distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as follows:
 
12. Commitments and Contingencies
     We have guaranteed the payment of industrial revenue bonds for one assisted living facility, in the event that the present owner defaults upon its obligations. In consideration for this guaranty, we receive and recognize fees annually related to this arrangement. This guaranty expires upon the repayment of the industrial revenue bonds which currently mature in 2009. At December 31, 2003, we were contingently liable for $3,195,000 under this guaranty.
     At December 31, 2003, we had operating lease obligations of $10,758,000 relating to Company office space and six assisted living facilities.
     At December 31, 2003, we had outstanding construction financings of $14,865,000 ($14,701,000 for leased properties and $164,000 for construction loans) and were committed to providing additional financing of approximately $15,501,000 to complete construction. At December 31, 2003, we had contingent purchase obligations totaling $62,443,000. These contingent purchase obligations primarily relate to deferred acquisition fundings. Deferred acquisition fundings are contingent upon an operator satisfying certain conditions such as payment coverage and value tests. Rents received from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.
     On November 20, 2002, Doctors Community Health Care Corporation and five subsidiaries ("Doctors") filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Columbia. Doctors stated that its bankruptcy filing was due to the bankruptcy of National Century Financial Enterprises and affiliates, which halted payments to health care providers, including Doctors. We have provided mortgage financing to Doctors in the form of a loan secured by the Pacifica Hospital of the Valley in Sun Valley, CA, and the other assets of the Pacifica of the Valley Corporation, one of the debtor subsidiaries. The outstanding principal balance of the loan was approximately $18,797,000 on December 31, 2003. Pursuant to procedures approved by the bankruptcy court, the assets of Doctors were the subject of an auction held on December 10 through December 16, 2003. At the conclusion of that auction, the debtors' independent director declared certain members of Doctors' management the winning bidder. Their bid contemplates a reorganization of Doctors and its subsidiaries with new equity and debt capitalization. The results of this auction are subject to bankruptcy court approval, which the debtors have stated they intend to seek in connection with a hearing on the confirmation of the debtors' proposed plan of reorganization. Doctors anticipates that this hearing should occur in March or April 2004. Doctors did not make an interest payment for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003. We will not recognize any interest on the loan until payment is received.
     Alterra Healthcare Corporation ("Alterra") filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on January 23, 2003 in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. We have a master lease with Alterra for 45 assisted living facilities with a depreciated book value of $103,293,000 at December 31, 2003. A joint venture between Fortress Investment Group LLC and Emeritus Corporation was the winning bidder at a bankruptcy auction held on July 17, 2003. The bankruptcy court confirmed Alterra's plan of reorganization on November 26, 2003. In connection with confirmation of Alterra's plan, our master lease was assumed and the acquisition of Alterra by the Fortress-Emeritus joint venture was approved. This transaction has closed. Alterra remained current on rental payments throughout the bankruptcy process.
13. Stockholder Rights Plan
     Under the terms of a stockholder rights plan approved by our Board of Directors in July 1994, a preferred share right is attached to and automatically trades with each outstanding share of common stock.
     The rights, which are redeemable, will become exercisable only in the event that any person or group becomes a holder of 15% or more of our common stock, or commences a tender or exchange offer, which, if consummated, would result in that person or group owning at least 15% of our common stock. Once the rights become exercisable, they entitle all other stockholders to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of a new series of junior participating preferred stock for an exercise price of $48.00. The rights will expire on August 5, 2004, unless exchanged earlier or redeemed earlier by us for $0.01 per right at any time before public disclosure that a 15% position has been acquired.
 
14. Earnings Per Share
     The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):
     The diluted earnings per share calculation excludes the dilutive effect of 0, 10,000 and 1,301,000 options for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, because the exercise price was greater than the average market price. The Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock were not included in this calculation as the effect of the conversions were anti-dilutive.
15. Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
     The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value.
     The fair value of all mortgage loans receivable is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities.
Mortgage Loans Receivable 
     The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value based on the interest rates received, which approximates current market rates.
Working Capital Loans, Construction Loans and Subdebt Investments 
     The carrying amount approximates fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
     Equity investments are recorded at their fair market value.
Equity Investments 
     The carrying amount of the lines of credit arrangements and secured debt approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.
Borrowings Under Lines of Credit Arrangements and Secured Debt 
     The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable was estimated by discounting the future cash flows using the current borrowing rate available to the Company for similar debt.
Senior Unsecured Notes 
     Mortgage loans payable is a reasonable estimate of fair value based on the interest rates paid, which approximates current market rates.
Mortgage Loans Payable 
 
     The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as follows (in thousands):
16. Discontinued Operations
     In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We adopted the standard effective January 1, 2002 and have reflected the results of properties disposed of through June 30, 2004 in discontinued operations for all periods presented.
     During the year ended December 31, 2003, we sold properties with carrying values of $61,316,000 for net gains of $4,139,000. During the six months ended June 30, 2004, we sold properties with carrying values of $33,808,000 for net gains of $1,129,000. In accordance with Statement No. 144, we have reclassified the income and expenses attributable to these properties to discontinued operations. Expenses include an allocation of interest expense based on property carrying values and our weighted average cost of debt. The following illustrates the reclassification impact of Statement No. 144 as a result of classifying the properties as discontinued operations (in thousands):
 
17. Subsequent Events
     During December 2003 and January 2004, we expanded our unsecured revolving line of credit from $225,000,000 to $310,000,000. The existing bank group, in conjunction with two new participants, First Tennessee Bank, N.A. and LaSalle Bank National Association, provided the additional capacity. See Note 6 for additional information regarding this arrangement.
18. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)
     The following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 (in thousands, except per share data):
 
(Dollars in thousands)
     
[Additional columns below]
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
 
SCHEDULE III  Continued
(Dollars in thousands)
     
[Additional columns below]
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
 
SCHEDULE III  Continued
(Dollars in thousands)
     
[Additional columns below]
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
 
SCHEDULE III  Continued
(Dollars in thousands)
     
[Additional columns below]
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
 
SCHEDULE III  Continued
(Dollars in thousands)
     
[Additional columns below]
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
 
SCHEDULE III - Continued
(Dollars in thousands)
     
[Additional columns below]
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
 
SCHEDULE III - Continued
(Dollars in thousands)
     
[Additional columns below]
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
 
SCHEDULE III - Continued (Dollars in thousands)
     
[Additional columns below]
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
 
SCHEDULE III - Continued
 
     
[Additional columns below]
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
 
SCHEDULE IV - Continued


