FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20050505172509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 5, 2005, Health Care REIT, Inc. issued a press release that announced operating results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2005. The press release is posted on the Company's Web site (www.hcreit.com) under the heading Press Releases. A copy of the press release has been furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Item 8.01
Other Events.
On May 5, 2005, the Company issued a press release that announced the results of its tender offer for any and all of its $100 million aggregate principal amount of 7.625% senior notes due March 2008, the redemption of all of its $50 million aggregate principal amount of 8.17% senior notes due March 2006 and the initiation of the redemption of $122.5 million of its outstanding $175 million aggregate principal amount of 7.5% senior notes due August 2007. The press release is posted on the Company's Web site (www.hcreit.com) under the heading Press Releases. A copy of the press release has been furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
None.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
None.
(c) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Its: Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Dated: May 5, 2005

 
Exhibit 99.1
        
F O R
I M M E D I A T E
R E L E A S E
Toledo, Ohio, May 5, 2005........ announced today operating results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2005.
Health Care REIT, Inc. (NYSE/HCN)
"Our investment activity and operating results were substantially as anticipated," commented George L. Chapman, chief executive officer of Health Care REIT, Inc. " We had strong recurring FAD growth and significant portfolio payment coverage improvement over the previous year. After three excellent years for investing, we were cautious about investment prospects for 2005 given aggressive valuations, especially in the high end assisted living sector. As we continue to diligently pursue quality investments, we will maintain our underwriting and asset management discipline. The liquidity in the long-term care sector should also permit us to further strengthen our portfolio by repositioning our capital with the best assets and operators."
As previously announced, the Board of Directors declared a dividend for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 of $0.62 per share as compared to $0.60 per share for the same period in 2004. The dividend represents the 136 consecutive dividend payment. The dividend will be payable May 20, 2005 to stockholders of record on April 29, 2005.
th
(In thousands, except per share data)
Summary of First Quarter Results
The company had a total outstanding debt balance of $1.2 billion at March 31, 2005, as compared with $1.0 billion at March 31, 2004, and stockholders' equity of $1.3 billion. At March 31, 2005, the company's debt to total book capitalization ratio was 48 percent and the debt to total market capitalization was 38 percent.
Page 1 of 14
 
For the three months ended March 31, 2005, the company's coverage ratio of EBITDA to interest was 3.26 to 1.00 and the coverage ratio of EBITDA to fixed charges was 2.56 to 1.00.
The company recorded $2.9 million of straight-line rent for the three months ended March 31, 2005. Straight-line rent is net of $852,000 in cash payments outside normal monthly rental payments for the three month period.
Straight-line Rent
.
The company affirms its 2005 guidance and expects to report net income available to common stockholders in the range of $1.39 to $1.47 per diluted share and FFO in the range of $2.90 to $2.98 per diluted share. The guidance assumes net new investments of $200 million with leases that will not require rents to be straight-lined. The company continues to anticipate that general and administrative expenses will total between $17.5 million and $18.5 million for the full year 2005. The company now expects to record straight-line rent of approximately $13 million for the full year 2005, before any additional cash payments outside normal monthly rental payments, and expects to report FAD in the range of $2.66 to $2.74 per diluted share.
Outlook for 2005
.
The company's guidance does not account for any impairments or unanticipated additions to the loan loss reserve. Additionally, the company plans to manage itself to maintain investment grade status with a capital structure consistent with its current profile. Please see Exhibit 15 for a reconciliation of the outlook for net income to FFO and FAD.
The company believes that net income, as defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP), is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, the company considers funds from operations (FFO) and funds available for distribution (FAD) to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FAD represents FFO excluding the non-cash straight-line rental adjustments.
Supplemental Reporting Measures
.
EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Additionally, the company excludes the non-cash provision for loan losses. The company believes that EBITDA, along with net income and cash flow provided from operating activities, is an important supplemental measure because it provides additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of its operations. Additionally, restrictive covenants in the company's long-term debt arrangements contain financial ratios based on EBITDA. The company primarily utilizes EBITDA to measure its interest coverage ratio which represents EBITDA divided by interest expense.
FFO, FAD and EBITDA are financial measures that are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. The company's management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results, in making operating decisions and for budget planning purposes. Additionally, FFO and FAD are internal evaluation metrics utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. FFO, FAD and EBITDA do not represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, FFO, FAD and EBITDA, as defined by the company, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Please see Exhibits 13, 14 and 16 for reconciliations of FAD, FFO and EBITDA to net income.
Page 2 of 14
 
The company has scheduled a conference call on May 6, 2005, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time to discuss its first quarter results, industry trends, portfolio performance and outlook for 2005. To participate on the webcast, log on to www.hcreit.com or www.fulldisclosure.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days through the same Web sites. This earnings release is posted on the company's Web site under the heading Press Releases.
Conference Call Information
.
Health Care REIT, Inc., with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is a real estate investment trust that invests primarily in skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. At March 31, 2005, the company had investments in 398 facilities in 35 states with 51 operators and had total assets of approximately $2.6 billion. The portfolio included 237 assisted living facilities, 153 skilled nursing facilities and eight specialty care hospitals. More information is available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.
This document may contain "forward-looking" statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements concern and are based upon, among other things, the possible expansion of the company's portfolio; the performance of its operators and properties; its ability to make distributions; its policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; its ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; its ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; and its ability to meet its earnings guidance. When the company uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," or similar expressions, it is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. The company's expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from expectations. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates; serious issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies and operators' difficulty in obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and senior housing industries; changes in federal, state and local legislation; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; the company's ability to transition or sell facilities with a profitable result; inaccuracies in any of the company's assumptions; and changes in rules or practices governing the company's financial reporting. Finally, the company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Page 3 of 14
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited)
(In thousands)
Page 4 of 14
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited)
(In thousands, except per share data)
Page 5 of 14
 
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. Financial Supplement  March 31, 2005
Page 6 of 14
 
Page 7 of 14
 
Notes: Data as of December 31, 2004.
Page 8 of 14
 
Operating Lease Expirations & Loan Maturities
Page 9 of 14
 
Page 10 of 14
 
Page 11 of 14
 
Exhibit 14
(Amounts in 000's except per share data)
Funds From Operations Reconciliation
Notes: (1) Provision for depreciation includes provision for depreciation from discontinued operations.
Page 12 of 14
 
Exhibit 15
(Amounts in 000's except per share data)
Outlook Reconciliations
Notes: (1) Provision for depreciation includes provision for depreciation from discontinued operations.
Page 13 of 14
 
Exhibit 16
EBITDA Reconciliation ($000's)
Page 14 of 14

 
Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
May 5, 2005 For more information contact: Ray Braun  (419) 247-2800 Mike Crabtree  (419) 247-2800 Scott Estes  (419) 247-2800
Toledo, Ohio, May 5, 2005...announced today the results of its cash tender offer for any and all of its $100 million aggregate principal amount of 7.625% senior notes due March 2008. Holders of approximately $57.7 million in aggregate principal amount of the notes tendered their notes prior to 5:00 p.m., Eastern time, on May 4, 2005, the expiration date. After the completion of the tender, the company will have approximately $42.3 million of the 7.625% senior notes due March 2008 that will remain outstanding.
Health Care REIT, Inc. (NYSE/HCN)
The company has initiated the redemption of $122.5 million of its outstanding $175 million aggregate principal amount of 7.5% senior notes due August 2007. After the completion of the partial redemption, the company will have $52.5 million of the 7.5% senior notes due August 2007 that will remain outstanding.
On May 3, 2005 the company also redeemed all of its outstanding $50 million aggregate principal amount of 8.17% senior notes due March 2006.
The company will recognize one-time charges on the extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $17.5 million to $18.0 million in the second quarter of 2005 as a result of this activity.
The company intends to use the net proceeds from its recent public offering of $250 million of 5.875% senior notes due May 2015 to fund the tender offer and redemptions described above. Any remaining net proceeds will be used to repay borrowings under its unsecured lines of credit arrangements.
A summary of the company's senior note debt maturities schedule as of March 31, 2005, adjusted for the activity above is as follows:
 
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor will there be any sale of any of the notes described above in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.
Health Care REIT, Inc., with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is a real estate investment trust that invests primarily in skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. At March 31, 2005, the company had investments in 237 assisted living facilities, 153 skilled nursing facilities and eight specialty care facilities located in 35 states and managed by 51 different operators.
This document may contain "forward-looking" statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When the company uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," or similar expressions, it is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. The company's expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from expectations. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates; serious issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies and operators' difficulty in obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and senior housing industries; changes in federal, state and local legislation; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; the company's ability to transition or sell facilities with a profitable result; inaccuracies in any of the company's assumptions; and changes in rules or practices governing the company's financial reporting. Finally, the company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.


