FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20051018184638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 18, 2005, Health Care REIT, Inc. issued a press release that announced operating results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2005. The press release is posted on the Company's Web site (www.hcreit.com) under the heading Press Releases. A copy of the press release has been furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
None.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
None.
(c) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Its: Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Dated: October 18, 2005

 
Exhibit 99.1
Toledo, Ohio, October 18, 2005 announced today operating results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2005.
Health Care REIT, Inc. (NYSE/HCN)
"We are pleased to report a 13% increase in third quarter FAD to $0.77," commented George L. Chapman, chief executive officer of Health Care REIT, Inc. "Our record quarterly earnings resulted from the $217 million of net new investments completed during the first half of 2005. We intend to maintain our disciplined approach to investing, leaving us well-positioned for 2006 and beyond."
The Board of Directors declared a dividend for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 of $0.62 per share as compared to $0.60 per share for the same period in 2004. The dividend represents the 138 consecutive dividend payment. The dividend will be payable November 21, 2005 to stockholders of record on October 31, 2005.
th
Summary of Third Quarter Results
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
Page 1 of 15
 
Summary of Year to Date Results
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
The company had a total outstanding debt balance of $1.4 billion at September 30, 2005, as compared with $1.1 billion at September 30, 2004, and stockholders' equity of $1.3 billion. At September 30, 2005, the company's debt to total book capitalization ratio was 51% and the debt to total market capitalization ratio was 37%. For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, the company's coverage ratio of EBITDA to interest was 3.25 to 1.00 and the coverage ratio of EBITDA to fixed charges was 2.58 to 1.00, after adjusting for the one-time debt extinguishment charge of $18.4 million in the second quarter of 2005.
The company recorded $0.1 million and $4.1 million of straight-line rent for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005, respectively. Straight-line rent is net of $2.8 million and $6.0 million in cash payments outside normal monthly rental payments for the three and nine month periods, respectively.
.
Straight-line Rent
The company is refining its 2005 net new investment guidance to a range of $125 to $175 million from $100 to $200 million. The net new investment guidance excludes approximately $300 million of portfolio acquisitions currently in underwriting with an average yield of 8.25%. All new investments will primarily comprise leases that will not require rents to be straight-lined. The company currently expects to report net income available to common stockholders in the range of $1.02 to $1.04 per diluted share. Excluding the loss on extinguishment of debt and any additional one-time items, the company is also narrowing its guidance for 2005 FFO to a range of $2.91 to $2.93 from $2.90 to $2.98 per diluted share. The company now expects to record straight-line rent of approximately $7 million for the full year 2005, before any additional cash payments outside normal monthly rental payments, and is revising its 2005 FAD guidance to a range of $2.78 to $2.80 from $2.72 to $2.80 per diluted share. The company also anticipates that general and administrative expenses will total between $17.8 million and $18.3 million for the full year 2005. For the fourth quarter of 2005, the company has assumed: (1) gross investments of $35 to $65 million at an average initial yield of 9.0% occurring on average during the latter half of the fourth quarter; (2) dispositions of $100 to $150 million at an average yield of 9.25%; (3) any proceeds from dispositions are used to pay down the company's outstanding line of credit balance; (4) general and administrative expenses of $4.8 to $5.3 million; and (5) no additional capital raising activities outside of the company's DRIP plan.
.
Outlook for 2005
Page 2 of 15
 
The company's guidance does not account for any impairments or unanticipated additions to the loan loss reserve. Additionally, the company will be managed to maintain investment grade status with a capital structure consistent with its current profile. Please see Exhibit 15 for a reconciliation of the outlook for net income to FFO and FAD.
The company believes that net income, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, the company considers funds from operations (FFO) and funds available for distribution (FAD) to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FAD represents FFO excluding the non-cash straight-line rental adjustments.
.
Supplemental Reporting Measures
EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Additionally, the company excludes the non-cash provision for loan losses. The company believes that EBITDA, along with net income and cash flow provided from operating activities, is an important supplemental measure because it provides additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of its operations. Additionally, restrictive covenants in the company's long-term debt arrangements contain financial ratios based on EBITDA. The company primarily utilizes EBITDA to measure its interest coverage ratio which represents EBITDA divided by interest expense.
In October 2003, NAREIT informed its member companies that the SEC had changed its position on certain aspects of the NAREIT FFO definition, including impairment charges. Previously, the SEC accepted NAREIT's view that impairment charges were effectively an early recognition of an expected loss on an impending sale of property and thus should be excluded from FFO similar to other gains and losses on sales. However, the SEC's clarified interpretation is that recurring impairments taken on real property may not be added back to net income in the calculation of FFO and FAD. Although the company has adopted this recommendation, it has also disclosed FFO and FAD adjusted for the impairment charge in 2004 for enhanced clarity.
In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 145 that requires gains and losses on extinguishments of debt to be classified as income or loss from continuing operations rather than as extraordinary items as previously required under Statement No. 4. The company adopted the standard effective January 1, 2003 and has properly reflected the current quarter loss on extinguishment of debt which may not be added back to net income in the calculation of FFO. Although the company has adopted this treatment, it has also disclosed FFO, FAD and EBITDA adjusted for the loss on extinguishment of debt in 2005 for enhanced clarity.
FFO, FAD and EBITDA are financial measures that are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. The company's management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results, in making operating decisions and for budget planning purposes. Additionally, FFO and FAD are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. FFO, FAD and EBITDA do not represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, FFO,
Page 3 of 15
 
FAD and EBITDA, as defined by the company, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Please see Exhibits 13, 14 and 16 for reconciliations of FAD, FFO and EBITDA to net income.
The company has scheduled a conference call on October 19, 2005, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time to discuss its third quarter results, industry trends, portfolio performance and outlook for 2005. To participate in the webcast, log on to www.hcreit.com or www.earnings.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days through the same Web sites. This earnings release is posted on the company's Web site under the heading Press Releases.
.
Conference Call Information
Health Care REIT, Inc., with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is a real estate investment trust that invests primarily in skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. At September 30, 2005, the company had investments in 426 facilities in 37 states with 52 operators and had total assets of approximately $2.7 billion. The portfolio included 233 assisted living facilities, 180 skilled nursing facilities and 13 specialty care facilities. More information is available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.
This document may contain "forward-looking" statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements concern and are based upon, among other things, the possible expansion of the company's portfolio; the performance of its operators and properties; its ability to make distributions; its policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; its ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; its ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; and its ability to meet its earnings guidance. When the company uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," or similar expressions, it is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. The company's expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from expectations. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates; current serious issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, operators' difficulty in obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance, and competition within the health care and senior housing industries; changes in financing terms available to the company; changes in federal, state and local legislation; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; changes in the company's ability to transition or sell facilities with a profitable result; inaccuracies in any of the company's assumptions; and changes in rules or practices governing the company's financial reporting. Finally, the company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Page 4 of 15
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited)
(In thousands)
Page 5 of 15
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited)
(In thousands, except per share data)
Page 6 of 15
 
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. Financial Supplement  September 30, 2005
 
 
Page 7 of 15
 
Page 8 of 15
 
 
 
Page 9 of 15
 
Operating Lease Expirations & Loan Maturities
 
 
Page 10 of 15
 
Page 11 of 15
 
 
Page 12 of 15
 
 
Page 13 of 15
 
 
Page 14 of 15
 
 
Page 15 of 15


