FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20061113194703.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Throughout this document, the Registrant, Health Care REIT, Inc., is referred to as "we" or "Health Care REIT."
On November 13, 2006, Health Care REIT announced that it intends to offer, subject to market and other conditions, $300 million of convertible senior notes. The press release is posted on our Web site () under the heading Press Releases. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
www.hcreit.com
Also, Health Care REIT is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K in order to incorporate by reference into its registration statements, including the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-134082), information about its pending acquisition of Windrose Medical Properties Trust ("Windrose"). Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Information as of and for the period ended September 30, 2006, derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of Health Care REIT and Windrose and adjusted to give effect to Health Care REIT's acquisition of Windrose, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference. The Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule included in Windrose's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.3 and 99.4, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Information set forth in this filing contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Health Care REIT's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Health Care REIT disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this filing based on new information or otherwise.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 12
 

 
Exhibit 23
The Board of Trustees Windrose Medical Properties Trust:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements No. 333-107280, 333-110877, 333-110902, 333-120917 and 333-134082 on Form S-3, in the registration statements No. 333-01239, 333-40769, 333-40771, 333-73916, 333-120915 and 333-126195 on Form S-8 and in the registration statement No. 333-138006 on Form S-4 of Health Care REIT, Inc. of our report dated March 15, 2006, relating to the consolidated balance sheets of Windrose Medical Properties Trust and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and shareholders' equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, and the related financial statement schedule III as of December 31, 2005, which report appears in the Current Report on Form 8-K of Health Care REIT, Inc. dated November 13, 2006.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Indianapolis, Indiana November 13, 2006

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 13, 2006 For more information contact: Mike Crabtree  (419) 247-2800 Scott Estes  (419) 247-2800
Toledo, Ohio, November 13, 2006...today announced that it intends to offer, subject to market and other conditions, $300 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due 2026. The notes will be convertible, in certain circumstances, into a combination of cash and Health Care REIT common stock. In general, upon conversion, the holder of each note would receive, in respect of the conversion value of such note, cash up to the principal amount of such note and Health Care REIT common stock for the note's conversion value in excess of such principal amount. Health Care REIT intends to grant the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional $45 million of the Convertible Senior Notes to cover over allotments, if any. The notes will be registered under Health Care REIT's existing shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Health Care REIT, Inc. (NYSE:HCN)
Health Care REIT intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to invest in additional health care and senior housing properties. Pending such use, the proceeds will primarily be used to repay borrowings under Health Care REIT's unsecured line of credit arrangements.
The joint bookrunning managers for the offering are UBS Investment Bank and Deutsche Bank Securities. Banc of America Securities LLC is acting as co-lead manager, and JPMorgan and Wachovia Securities are acting as co-managers for the offering.
A copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement and related prospectus relating to the proposed offering may be obtained by contacting UBS Investment Bank, Prospectus Department, 299 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10171, or Deutsche Bank Securities, 60 Wall Street, 4 Floor, New York, New York 10005.
th
This press release is not an offer to sell, nor a solicitation of an offer to buy securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which the offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such state or jurisdiction.
 
Health Care REIT, Inc., with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is a real estate investment trust that invests in health care and senior housing properties. At September 30, 2006, Health Care REIT had investments in 477 facilities located in 37 states and managed by 58 different operators. The portfolio included 39 independent living/continuing care retirement communities, 204 assisted living facilities, 220 skilled nursing facilities and 14 specialty care facilities. More information is available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.
This document may contain "forward-looking" statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements concern and are based upon, among other things, our expectations about the offering of the notes and the use of net proceeds from such offering. When Health Care REIT uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "estimate" or similar expressions, it is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect our current plans and expectations and are based on information currently available. They are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Completion of the proposed notes offering is subject to various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy and the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates. Health Care REIT assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements presented below have been prepared based on certain pro forma adjustments to the historical consolidated financial statements of Health Care REIT and Windrose as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005. The historical consolidated financial statements of Health Care REIT are contained in its Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2005, its Quarterly Report on for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2006 and its Current Report on filed on October 20, 2006, which modifies certain financial information included in its Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2005, each of which is incorporated by reference into this proxy statement/prospectus. The historical consolidated financial statements of Windrose are contained in its Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2005 and its Quarterly Report on for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2006, each of which is incorporated by reference into this proxy statement/prospectus. The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2006 has been prepared as if the merger of Health Care REIT and Windrose and the issuance of Health Care REIT common and preferred stock had occurred as of that date.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q
Form 8-K
Form 10-K
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005 have been prepared as if the merger had occurred as of January 1, 2005 and reflect the issuance of Health Care REIT common stock and preferred stock in the mergers. In addition, the Windrose historical operations have been adjusted to reflect the historical combined operating results of all properties acquired by Windrose during 2005 for the period January 1, 2005 through the date of acquisition by Windrose and all properties acquired by Windrose during the first six months of 2006 for the periods January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2006 through the date of acquisition by Windrose. Windrose has had no significant acquisitions since June 30, 2006. The allocation of the aggregate purchase price, including assumed liabilities, of Windrose as reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements has been based upon preliminary estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In the opinion of Health Care REIT's and Windrose's management, all significant adjustments necessary to reflect the effects of the mergers that can be factually supported within the SEC regulations covering the preparation of pro forma financial statements have been made.
 
A final determination of the fair values of Windrose's assets and liabilities, which cannot be made prior to the completion of the mergers, will be based on the actual net tangible and intangible assets of Windrose that exist as of the date of completion of the mergers. Consequently, amounts preliminarily allocated to assets and liabilities could change significantly from those used in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements presented below.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are provided for informational purposes only. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are not necessarily and should not be assumed to be an indication of the results that would have been achieved had the transactions been completed as of the dates indicated or that may be achieved in the future. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet does not include restructuring charges and other related liabilities that may result from Health Care REIT's integration of Windrose following completion of the mergers. In addition to the uncertainties discussed above, the impact of integration activities, the timing of completion of the mergers and other changes in Windrose's net tangible and intangible assets that occur prior to completion of the mergers could cause material differences in the information presented. Furthermore, following completion of the mergers, Health Care REIT expects to apply its own methodologies and judgments in accounting for the assets and liabilities acquired and assumed in the mergers. Those judgments and methodologies may differ from those reflected in Windrose's adjusted historical financial statements and the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto that follow.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the respective historical financial statements and the notes thereto of Health Care REIT and Windrose, which are incorporated by reference in this proxy statement/prospectus. See the section titled "Where You Can Find More Information" for more information on where you can obtain copies of the documents incorporated by reference into this proxy statement/prospectus.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
(A) The historical consolidated balance sheet of Health Care REIT contained in its Quarterly Report on for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2006 is on file with the SEC and is incorporated by reference into this proxy statement/prospectus.
Form 10-Q
 
(B) The historical consolidated balance sheet of Windrose contained in its Quarterly Report on for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2006 is on file with the SEC and is incorporated by reference into this proxy statement/prospectus. The following reclassifications were made to the historical consolidated balance sheet of Windrose to conform certain Windrose amounts with Health Care REIT's presentation:
Form 10-Q
 
 
(C) In the merger, each Windrose common shareholder will receive shares of Health Care REIT common stock as determined by an exchange ratio to be determined by dividing $18.06 by the volume-weighted average price per share of Health Care REIT common stock for the 10 trading days, selected by lot, from the 15 trading day period ending on and including the fifth trading day prior to the closing of the mergers. The exchange ratio is subject to a floor of 0.4509 and a ceiling of 0.4650 which correlates to Health Care REIT common stock prices per share of $40.05 and $38.84, respectively. For purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet presentation, the total purchase price is based on the number of Windrose common shares outstanding on September 30, 2006 after giving effect to the conversion of all of the Windrose OP units outstanding on September 30, 2006, an exchange ratio of 0.4579 and market price per share of Health Care REIT common stock of $39.44. The exchange ratio and market price per share represents the average of the high and low of the respective ranges.
 
In addition, at the effective time of the mergers, to the extent that Windrose preferred shares have not been converted into Windrose common shares, each holder of Windrose 7.5% Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares will receive an equivalent number of shares of Health Care REIT 7.5% Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. For purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet presentation, the total purchase price is based on the number of Windrose preferred shares outstanding on September 30, 2006 and a price per share of Health Care REIT preferred stock of $25.00.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The calculation of the merger consideration and total purchase price is as follows (in thousands, except prices per share and exchange ratio):
 
 
The estimated fees and other expenses related to the mergers are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
(D) Windrose's real estate assets have been adjusted to their estimated fair market values as of September 30, 2006. Windrose's historical accumulated depreciation and amortization balances have been eliminated when real estate assets are recorded at their fair market value. A final determination of the fair values of Windrose's assets and liabilities, which cannot be made prior to the completion of the mergers, will be based on the actual net tangible and intangible assets of Windrose that exist as of the date of completion of the mergers. Consequently, amounts preliminarily allocated to assets and liabilities could change significantly from those used in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
 
 
(E) Adjustments to Windrose's historical deferred loan expenses, as follows (in thousands):
 
 
(F) Adjustments to Windrose's historical receivables and other assets, as follows (in thousands):
 
 
(G) Borrowings under Health Care REIT's unsecured lines of credit arrangements will be used to fund certain costs of the mergers to be paid in cash aggregating $28,050,000 and to payoff $60,800,000 of Windrose variable-rate secured debt outstanding at September 30, 2006.
 
(H) Adjustments to Windrose's historical secured debt, as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Secured debt, net of the variable-rate secured debt payoffs, will be assumed by Health Care REIT in the mergers. Windrose's secured debt that will be assumed will be recorded at its estimated fair market value based on Health Care REIT management's estimates of the interest rates that would be available to Health Care REIT for the issuance of secured debt with similar terms and maturities. Health Care REIT's management considers the interest rates on the assumed debt to be above market for secured debt that would be incurred by Health Care REIT with similar terms and maturities.
 
(I) Adjustment to the Windrose liability to a subsidiary trust issuing preferred securities to its estimated fair market value based on Health Care REIT management's estimate of the interest rate that would be available to Health Care REIT for the issuance of debt with similar terms and maturity as the preferred securities issued by Windrose's subsidiary trust. The liability to Windrose's subsidiary trust issuing the preferred securities will be assumed by Health Care REIT in the mergers. Health Care REIT's management considers the interest rate on the assumed liability to be above market.
 
(J) Adjustments to Windrose's historical accrued expenses and other liabilities, as follows (in thousands):
 
 
(K) Adjustments reflect the elimination of the historical amounts applicable to the minority interest in Windrose OP. Windrose OP units will be exchanged for Health Care REIT common stock in connection with the operating partnership merger. The remaining amounts represent minority interests applicable to other joint ventures.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
(L) Adjustments represent the elimination of historical Windrose balances and the issuance of shares of Health Care REIT common and preferred stock in the mergers. The shares of Health Care REIT common and preferred stock issued in the mergers are valued as follows (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
The shares of Health Care REIT common stock issued are recorded as follows (in thousands):
 
 
(M) Adjustments represent the issuance of Health Care REIT common stock related to certain costs associated with the mergers. The shares of Health Care REIT common stock issued are valued as follows (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
The shares of Health Care REIT common stock issued are recorded as follows (in thousands):
 
 
(N) Adjustments represent the accounting treatment of certain non-recurring costs of the mergers aggregating approximately $6,023,000. Approximately $5,673,000 of these costs represent retention bonuses and related excise taxes for certain Windrose officers and approximately $350,000 of these costs represent estimated equity issuance costs.
 
(O) The historical consolidated statements of income of Health Care REIT are contained in its Current Report on filed October 20, 2006, which updates certain financial information included in its Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2005, and its Quarterly Report on for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2006 on file with the SEC and are incorporated by reference into this proxy statement/prospectus. Income tax expenses have been reclassified from "General and administrative expenses" to a separate line item.
Form 8-K
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
 
 
 
(P) The following table represents the Windrose adjusted unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2005 to include the pre-acquisition historical results of operations for Windrose acquisitions during 2005 and the six months ended June 30, 2006 (Windrose has had no significant acquisitions since June 30, 2006) (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table represents the Windrose adjusted unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 to include the pre-acquisition historical results of operations for Windrose acquisitions during the six months ended June 30, 2006 (Windrose has had no significant acquisitions since June 30, 2006) (in thousands):
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Q) Adjustments to rental income are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
(R) Adjustments to interest expense are as follows (in thousands):
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The pro forma increase in interest expense associated with draws on unsecured lines of credit to fund merger related costs is calculated using market rates Health Care REIT management believes would have been available to Health Care REIT for the unsecured lines of credit as of September 30, 2006. The assumed interest rate associated with draws on unsecured lines of credit was 7.0%.
 
(S) Adjustments to depreciation and amortization are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The following useful lives were used to compute the adjustments to depreciation and amortization:
 
 
(T) General and administrative expenses are adjusted to include the amortization of non-compete contract intangibles. Individuals covered under the non-compete agreements have two-year consulting contracts. The non-compete provisions of the consulting agreements extend for two years beyond the applicable termination dates. Thus, a four-year period was used to compute amortization expense.
 
Management of Health Care REIT expects that the mergers will create general and administrative cost savings, including costs associated with corporate administrative functions. There can be no assurance that Health Care REIT will be successful in achieving these anticipated cost savings. No estimate of these expected future cost savings has been included in the unaudited pro forma financial statements. Such adjustments cannot be factually supported within the SEC regulations governing the preparation of pro forma financial statements until such time as the operations of the companies have been fully integrated.
 
(U) Adjustments to loan expense are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
An estimated remaining term of 6.4 years was assumed to compute the amortization of deferred loan expenses associated with the secured debt assumption costs in the mergers.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
(V) The pro forma basic weighted-average common shares outstanding are the historical basic weighted-average common shares outstanding of Health Care REIT for the periods presented, adjusted for the assumed issuance of 9,876,000 shares of Health Care REIT common stock on a weighted-average basis for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the nine months ended September 30, 2006. The pro forma diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding include the potentially dilutive impact of 311,000 options on a weighted-average basis for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the nine months ended September 30, 2006.
 
(W) The calculations of basic and diluted income (loss) from continuing operations available to common stockholders per common share are as follows (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
 
The Board of Trustees and Shareholders of Windrose Medical Properties Trust
We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Windrose Medical Properties Trust and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and shareholders' equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule III. These consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Windrose Medical Properties Trust and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule III, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Indianapolis, Indiana March 15, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
1. THE COMPANY
The Company was formed to acquire, selectively develop and manage specialty medical properties, such as medical office buildings, outpatient treatment diagnostic facilities, physician group practice clinics, ambulatory surgery centers, specialty hospitals, and other healthcare related specialty properties. The Company had no operations prior to its initial public offering on August 16, 2002. The Company's rental operations are conducted through Windrose Medical Properties, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership"). The Company is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and owns approximately 98.1% of the Operating Partnership as of December 31, 2005.
The Company also conducts third party facility planning, project management, medical equipment planning and implementation services and related activities ("Service Operations") through Hospital Affiliates Development Corporation, or HADC, a wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary of the Operating Partnership.
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries. The equity interests in these subsidiaries not owned by the Company are reflected as minority interests in the consolidated financial statements. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements.
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS
Real Estate Investments to be held and used are stated at the lower of cost less accumulated depreciation or fair value if impairment is identified. Real estate investments to be disposed of are reported at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less the cost of sale. Buildings are depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated life not to exceed 40 years. Tenant Improvements are depreciated using the straight-line method over the term of the related lease.
All direct and indirect costs, including interest and real estate taxes clearly associated with the development, construction or expansion of real estate investments are capitalized as a cost of the property. All external costs associated with the acquisition of real estate investments are capitalized as a cost of the property.
We analyze our investments in joint ventures under Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46 (R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities to determine if the joint venture is considered a variable interest entity and would require consolidation.
In June 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") FASB ratified the consensus reached in Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") No. 04-5, ("EITF 04-5"). EITF 04-5 is effective for all newly formed limited partnerships after the consensus was ratified and as of January 2006 for all prexisting limited partnership agreements. This consensus applies to limited partnerships or similar entities, such as limited liability companies, that have governing provisions that are the functional equivalent of a limited partnership. The Company has consolidated a limited partnership in which it was the sole general partner and the limited partners did not have substantial participating rights or substantial kickout rights.
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
The Company evaluates its real estate investments to be held and used upon occurrence of significant changes in the operations to assess whether any impairment indications are present that affect the recovery of the recorded value by comparing the sum of expected future cash flows (on an undiscounted basis) from a rental property over its anticipated holding period to the historical net cost basis. If any real estate investment is considered impaired, a loss is provided to reduce the carrying value of the property to its estimated fair value.
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, "Business Combinations" (SFAS 141), the Company allocates the purchase price of acquired properties to net tangible and identified intangible assets based on their respective fair values. The allocation to tangible assets (building and land) is based upon management's determination of the value of the property as if it were vacant using discounted cash flow models similar to those used by independent appraisers. Factors considered by management include an estimate of carrying costs during the expected lease-up periods considering current market conditions and costs to execute similar leases. The remaining purchase price is allocated among three categories of intangible assets consisting of the above or below market component of in-place leases, the value of in-place leases and the value of customer relationships.
 
The value allocable to the above or below market component of the acquired in-place lease is determined based upon the present value (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the acquired leases) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining term, and (ii) management's estimate of the amounts that would be paid using fair market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated to above market leases are included in acquired lease intangibles and below market leases are included in other liabilities in the balance sheet and are amortized to rental income over the remaining terms of the respective leases.
The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values and customer relationship values based on management's evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant's lease and the Company's overall relationship with that respective tenant. Characteristics considered by management in allocating these values include the nature and extent of the Company's existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenant's credit quality and expectations of lease renewals, among other factors.
The following table shows the estimated aggregate amortization expense for acquired lease intangibles for each of the next five years:
Lease Intangible Amortization
CASH EQUIVALENTS
Highly liquid investments with maturity of three months or less when purchased are classified as cash equivalents.
ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS
The Company reviews each account receivable (receivables from tenants and straight line rent receivables) for collectibility and provides an allowance for doubtful accounts as specific accounts receivable are deemed uncollectible.
DEFERRED COSTS
Costs incurred in connection with obtaining financing are amortized to interest expense on the effective interest method over the term of the related loan. Costs associated with the leasing of real estate investments are amortized over the term of the related lease. Unamortized costs are charged to expense upon the early termination of the lease or upon early payment of the financing.
RENTAL OPERATIONS
Rental income from leases with scheduled rental increases during their terms is recognized on a straight-line basis.
In determining what constitutes the leased asset, we evaluate whether we or the lessee are the owner, for accounting purposes, of the tenant improvements. If we are the owner, for accounting purposes, of the tenant improvements, then the leased asset is the finished space and revenue recognition begins when the lessee takes possession of the finished space, typically when the improvements are substantially complete. If we conclude we are not the owner, for accounting purposes, of the tenant improvements (the lessee is the owner), then any tenant improvement allowances funded under the lease are treated as lease incentives and the leased asset is the unimproved space. In these circumstances, we began revenue recognition when the lessee takes possession of the unimproved space for the lessee to construct improvements. The determination of who is the owner, for accounting purposes, of the tenant improvements determines the nature of the leased asset and when revenue recognition under a lease begins.
SERVICE OPERATIONS
Contract revenues are recognized using the percentage of completion method based on the efforts expended, whereby the percentage complete is based on hours incurred in relation to total estimated hours to be incurred. Costs associated with obtaining contracts are expensed as incurred. The Company does not combine contracts for purposes of recognizing revenue. Customers are billed based on the terms included in the contracts, which are generally upon delivery of certain products or information, or achievement of certain milestones defined in the contracts. When billed, such amounts are recorded as accounts receivable. Revenue earned in excess of billings represents revenue related to services completed but not billed, and billings in excess of revenue earned represent billings in advance of services performed.
 
Contract costs include labor costs and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor and supplies. Losses on contracts are recognized in the period such losses are determined. Changes in job performance, job conditions, and estimated profitability, including those arising from contract penalty provisions, and final contract settlements may result in revisions to costs and income and are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined.
Leasing commissions are recorded as income at the time the services are provided unless future contingencies exist, in which case the income is recorded when the contingency is resolved.
NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE
Basic net income per common share is computed by dividing basic net income available for common shares by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per common share is computed by dividing the sum of net income available for common shares and minority interest in earnings of common unit holders, by the sum of the weighted average number of common shares and common units outstanding and dilutive potential common shares issuable for the period, based on the treasury stock method. The conversion of the Series A Cumulative Convertible preferred shares is anti-dilutive (i.e., common shares issuable upon conversion would increase net income per common share) and, therefore, are not included in the calculation of dilutive potential common shares.
The following table reconciles the components of basic and diluted net income per common share for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:
 
FEDERAL INCOME TAXES
The Company is taxed as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") under the Internal Revenue Code. To qualify as a REIT, the Company must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its taxable income to its shareholders. Management intends to continue to adhere to these requirements and to maintain the Company's REIT status. As a REIT, the Company is entitled to a tax deduction for some or all of the dividends it pays to shareholders. Accordingly, the Company generally will not be subject to federal income taxes as long as it distributes an amount equal to or in excess of its taxable income currently distributed to its shareholders. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years.
 
REIT qualification reduces, but does not eliminate, the amount of state and local taxes paid by the Company. In addition, the Company's financial statements include the operations of a taxable REIT subsidiary that is not entitled to a dividend paid deduction and is subject to corporate federal, state, and local income taxes. As a REIT, the Company may also be subject to certain federal excise taxes if it engages in certain types of transactions.
The following table reconciles the Company's net income to its taxable income before the dividends paid deduction for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:
The Company's dividends paid deduction is summarized below:
A summary of the tax characterization of the dividends paid per common share and preferred share for the year ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 follows:
 
Income taxes for the taxable REIT subsidiary are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.
The Company assesses the realizability of deferred tax assets and considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible.
STOCK BASED COMPENSATION
The Company applies the recognition and measurement provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations in accounting for its stock option plan. Accordingly, no compensation expense is reflected in net income as all options granted had an exercise price equal to or greater than the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. If compensation cost for the Company's fixed stock option plan had been determined consistent with SFAS No. 123, the Company's net income and net income per share for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:
The fair values of the options were determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:
 
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company periodically enters into certain interest rate protection agreements that convert or cap variable-rate debt to a fixed-rate and that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133, as amended ("SFAS 133"). Net amounts paid or received under these agreements are recognized as an adjustment to the interest expense of the corresponding debt. The Company does not utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,
SFAS 133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities at their fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must be adjusted to fair value through the recording of income or expense. If a derivative qualifies as a cash flow hedge, the change in fair value of the derivative is recognized in other comprehensive income to the extent the hedge is effective, while the ineffective portion of the derivative's change in fair value is recognized in earnings. The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when it is determined that the derivative is no longer effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item, the derivative expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, the derivative is dedesignated as a hedging instrument, because it is unlikely that a forecasted transaction will occur, a hedged firm commitment no longer meets the definition of a firm commitment, or management determines that designation of the derivative as a hedging instrument is no longer appropriate.
In all situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued and the derivative is retained, the Company continues to carry the derivative at its fair value on the balance sheet and recognizes any subsequent changes in its fair value in earnings. For all hedging relationships, the Company formally documents the hedging relationship and its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge, the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged, how the hedging instrument's effectiveness in offsetting the hedged risk will be assessed prospectively and retrospectively, and a description of the method of measuring ineffectiveness.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The fair values of the Company's financial instruments are generally calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows using a discount rate commensurate with the risks involved. The fair value approximates the carrying value for all financial instruments except for indebtedness, which is discussed in Footnote 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
USE OF ESTIMATES
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management of the Company to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reported amount of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
RECLASSIFICATIONS
Certain amounts in the 2004 and 2003 financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation.
3. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
As of December 31, 2005, the Company has one interest rate swap contract that meets the criteria of SFAS No. 133 to qualify for hedge accounting. On November 1, 2005, the Company entered into an interest swap contract with a notional amount of $6.5 million as a hedge to effectively fix the rate on a secured loan assumed with the acquisition of a medical office building in Lakewood, California. The swap qualified for
 
hedge accounting under SFAS 133; therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income. The fair value of the swap was a liability of $0.01 million as of December 31, 2005.
In February 2004, the Company entered into a $23 million interest rate swap contract as a hedge to effectively fix the rate on a secured loan assumed with the acquisition of a medical office building in Voorhees, NJ. The fair value of the swap was an asset of $0.2 million as of December 31, 2004. The swap qualified for hedge accounting under SFAS 133; therefore, changes in fair value were recorded in other comprehensive income. The swap did not have a fair value as of December 31, 2005 since the contract matured and was not renewed.
An interest rate swap was acquired in connection with the acquisition of the Urology Center of the South and the debt related to the swap was retired at the time of the acquisition. Therefore, this swap did not qualify for hedge accounting. At the time the associated debt was retired, the breakage fee for the swap was $0.4 million and the Company recorded this amount as a liability. For the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, the Company recognized a gain of $0.1 million and $0.3 million. This interest rate swap was settled on March 4, 2005 at a price of approximately $0.2 million resulting in an additional gain during the first quarter of 2005 of $0.07 million.
In May 2003, FASB issued SFAS No. 150, ("SFAS 150"). SFAS 150 establishes standards for classifying and measuring as liabilities certain financial instruments that embody obligations of the issuer and have characteristics of both liabilities and equity. SFAS 150 was effective for all financial instruments created or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise was effective July 1, 2003. The Company consolidated the operations of two partnerships in its consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005. These partnerships are owned by unaffiliated parties that have noncontrolling interests. SFAS 150 requires the disclosure of the estimated settlement value of these noncontrolling interests in these consolidated partnerships. As of December 31, 2005, the estimated settlement value of the noncontrolling interests in these consolidated partnerships was approximately $3.5 million, as compared to the $0.2 million minority interest liability reported in our financial statements for these partnerships.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity
4. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
The Company utilizes the guidelines established under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS 144"). SFAS 144 requires the Company to report in discontinued operations the results of operations of a property which has either been disposed or is classified as held-for-sale, unless certain conditions are met.
The Company classified operations of one building as discontinued operations at December 31, 2004. On February 2, 2005, the Company sold its property classified as "held-for-sale", at a gain, net of minority interest, of approximately $1.2 million. This gain is also being reported as net income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005.
The following table illustrates the major classes and operations affected by the building classified as discontinued operations:
 
5. RELATED PARTIES AND OTHER TRANSACTIONS
In the normal course of business and, in management's opinion, at terms comparable to those available from unrelated third parties, the Company has engaged in transactions with certain affiliates from-time-to-time.
The Company has an overhead sharing agreement with a company in which certain executive officers and members of the Company's Board of Trustees have an ownership interest to provide the Company executive office space and certain office support staff services in return for monthly payments of $17,500. The term of the agreement is for one year and renews automatically for an additional year unless either party provides 90 days notice of termination prior to the expiration of the then current term.
The Company also pays this related company $3,000 per month for human resources and employee search services through an annual agreement. These services include: recruiting, benefits administration, COBRA and ERISA compliance, labor law compliance, record keeping and compensation plan administration.
The Company also pays amounts to other companies majority owned and controlled by the Company's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer including the lease of the Company's headquarters office space for its corporate activities other than the Service Operations, in the monthly amount of approximately $3,700 in 2003, $5,000 in 2004 and $7,300 in 2005 and effective January 1, 2006, $10,505 per month plus expense reimbursement above a specified expense stop. During the Company also occasionally uses a private aircraft partially owned by FSK & J Jet, LLC, a company owned and controlled by the Company's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer primarily for financing and acquisition activities. The Company pays a variable cost based on an hourly usage rate plus fuel surcharges for actual use of the aircraft. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company paid $0.2 million for these services.
HADC provides property management services to an entity that owns a healthcare property that is not owned by the Company, but in which certain executive officers of the Company have a minority ownership interest, but control the general partner. HADC also uses the services of National Healthcare Associates ("NHA"), which is owned by the wife of the President of HADC. NHA performs consultant work such as market analysis and feasibility studies. Contract approval from the Company's Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer is required.
6. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, REVENUE EARNED IN EXCESS OF BILLINGS AND BILLINGS IN
EXCESS OF REVENUES EARNED
At December 31, 2005, the estimated period to complete contracts in process ranges from one month to three years, and the Company expects to collect substantially all related accounts receivable and revenue earned in excess of billings within this time period. The following summarizes contracts in process at:
 
Contracts in progress at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are included in the balance sheets under the following captions:
7. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK
Although the Company had no tenant that leased more than 10% of its total rentable square footage, the Company does have a significant number of properties located in two geographic locations. Specifically, 23% and 10% of the Company's rentable square footage is located in Southern Florida (in proximity to West Palm Beach, Florida) and in the Houston, Texas metropolitan area, respectively. Those two locations represented 21% and 10% of the Company's total rental operations revenue as of December 31, 2005, respectively. As a result, localized adverse events or conditions, such as economic recession or overbuilding in the local real estate market that could have a significant adverse effect on the operations of these properties, and ultimately on the amounts available for distribution to shareholders.
8. INDEBTEDNESS
On September 30, 2005, the Company entered into an amended and restated secured revolving credit facility with The Huntington National Bank ("Huntington") that provides for three loan facilities: (i) a $50 million secured revolving credit facility which is available for working capital purposes and for the acquisition of real estate assets (the "Revolving Facility"), which matures on September 30, 2007; (ii) a secured revolving line of credit of $10 million to acquire real estate assets (the "Secondary Revolving Facility"), which matures on September 30, 2006, but may be extended at the Company's election to September 2006; and (iii) an unsecured line of credit in an amount not to exceed $3 million for the issuance of letters of credit (the "Unsecured Facility"), which matures on September 30, 2007. The $50 million Revolving Facility has a $20 million accordion feature that allows the Company to request an increase of the Revolving Facility to $70 million. Huntington, or participating lenders if the credit facility, is syndicated, has no obligation to increase its commitment under the accordion feature of the Revolving Facility. Borrowing availability under the Revolving Facility and the Secondary Revolving Facility are dependent upon the collateral pool securing the facility. Currently, Huntington is the lead arranger and administrative agent and plans to syndicate the facility. Amounts borrowed under the Revolving Facility bear interest, at the Company's option, at an annual rate of either LIBOR plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.5% to 2.5% (5.96% at December 31, 2005), depending on the leverage ratio of the
 
Company, the Partnership and all of its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, or a rate equal to Huntington's prime rate. The Unsecured Facility bears interest at an annual rate equal to Huntington's prime rate. The Secondary Revolving Facility bears interest at variable rates of LIBOR plus 2.75% (no outstanding balance at December 31, 2005) or a rate equal to prime. The secured revolving credit facility with Huntington contains covenants that require, among other things, the maintenance of certain financial ratios. There was approximately $39.2 million outstanding as of December 31, 2005.
The Company has a $4 million secured credit facility with Regions Bank, secured by the first mortgage on the 310 25th Avenue medical office building located in Nashville, Tennessee. Amounts borrowed under the secured credit facility have a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.5% (5.79% at December 31, 2005). This loan was renewed on October 1, 2005 for a term of one year. There was $3 million outstanding as of December 31, 2005.
A subsidiary of the Company has a $24 million construction loan, structured as a secured construction draw note, for the development of a hospital in Houston, Texas, which matures on September 1, 2006. In addition, another subsidiary of the Company has an $18 million construction loan for the development of a professional office building ("POB") contiguous to this hospital in Houston, Texas, which matures on December 1, 2006. These projects were developed by HADC and are owned by subsidiaries of the Company. The two construction loans are guaranteed by the Company and secured by a deed of trust on the real estate and improvements. The loans require payment of interest only, which is calculated using the outstanding balance at prime plus 1% (8.25% at December 31, 2005) for the hospital and prime plus 0.25% (7.50% at December 31, 2005) for the POB, with principal due at maturity. On July 11, 2005, the Company's subsidiary that is the borrower under each of these loans amended and restated each of these loans primarily to add LaSalle Bank National Association and KeyBank National Association as lenders, in addition to The Huntington National Bank. The amount that may be borrowed under these loans, the term and the interest rates were not amended. The outstanding construction loan balances for the hospital and POB as of December 31, 2005 were approximately $19.5 million and approximately $15.5 million, respectively.
On December 6, 2005, the Company and the operating Partnership entered into a commitment for a $20 million unsecured bridge loan with KeyBank National Association, which has a nine month term from the closing date and an interest rate of LIBOR plus 3% or the lender's base rate plus 1.75% (4.75% at December 31, 2005). There was $10 million outstanding as of December 31, 2005.
The following is a summary of the outstanding mortgage debt, excluding the facilities mentioned above as of:
 
 
Included in the amounts shown as outstanding are fair value adjustments added to the principal amounts outstanding and amortized over the life of the loans. The fair value assigned to fixed-rate debt at the date of acquisition was based on market interest rates ranging from 5.1% to 6.5%. The current unamortized total of a net debt discount on all fixed rate acquisition loans as of December 31, 2005 is approximately $1.7 million. The total unpaid principal as of December 31, 2005 was approximately $436.8 million.
At December 31, 2005, scheduled amortization and maturities of indebtedness, exclusive of debt discount, including lines of credit, for the next five years and thereafter follows:
The fair value of our indebtedness as of December 31, 2005 was approximately $417.2 million. The fair value of the Company's long-term debt is estimated by discounting the future cash flows of each instrument at rates currently offered to the Company for similar debt instruments of comparable maturities.
9. INCOME TAXES
Income taxes are provided for the tax effects of transactions reported by the Operating partnership's wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary, HADC.
The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:
Differences in income taxes at the statutory rate and the Company's actual provision for 2003, 2004 and 2005 result primarily from the establishment of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
 
The net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consists of the following components:
The deferred tax asset primarily consists of a net operating loss carry forward. The deferred tax liability is the result of a cash to accrual adjustment, which was phased in over four years, as HADC was a cash basis tax payer until January 1, 2002.
In assessing the potential use of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. Management believes that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax asset will be realized.
At December 31, 2005, the Company has net operating loss carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes of approximately $0.5 million which are available to offset future federal and state taxable income, if any, through 2023.
10. STOCK BASED COMPENSATION
The Company has established a stock plan for the purpose of attracting and retaining our executive officers, employees, trustees and other persons and entities that provide services to us. The stock plan authorizes the issuance of options to purchase common shares and the grant of stock awards, performance shares, stock appreciation rights and incentive awards. Our officers and employees and those of our operating partnership and other subsidiaries are eligible to participate in the stock plan. Our trustees and other persons and entities that provide services to us are also eligible to participate in the stock plan. Up to 800,000 common shares are available for issuance under the stock plan.
Administration of the stock plan is carried out by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Trustees. The Compensation Committee may delegate its authority under the stock plan to one or more officers but it may not delegate its authority with respect to awards to individuals subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act. As used in this summary, the term "administrator" means the Compensation Committee or its delegate.
A summary of the status of the Company's stock option plans as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and changes during the years ended on those dates follows:
 
The stock options outstanding at December 31, 2005 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of approximately 8.5 years.
All options to employees vest at the rate of 20% per year commencing on the grant date except for options to purchase 28,534 and 6,534 common shares issued to Messrs. Klipsch and Farrar, respectively, on August 16, 2002, 50% of which vested on the grant date and 50% of which vested on the first anniversary of the grant date. Also excluded from the 20% per year vesting are options to purchase 21,466 common shares issued to both Messrs. Klipsch and Farrar on August 16, 2002, 8,333 of which vested on the grant date, 8,333 of which vested on the first anniversary of the grant date, and 1,600 of which vest in each of the next three years. Also excluded for the 20% per year vesting are options to purchase 50,000 common shares issued to Messrs. Klipsch and Farrar on August 5, 2003 of which 50% vested on the date of grant and 50% vest on the first anniversary of the grant date. Also excluded from the 20% per year vesting are options to purchase 50,000 common shares issued to Messrs. Klipsch and Farrar on August 1, 2004, of which 50% vested on the date of grant and 50% vest on the first anniversary of the grant date.
Options to trustees vest at the rate of 50% per year commencing on the first anniversary of the grant date except for options to purchase 6,000 shares issued to trustees on August 16, 2002 which were 100% vested on the grant date.
From time to time, the Company awards restricted common shares under the Company's stock incentive plan to trustees, executive officers and employees, which generally vest over one to eight years provided they remain in continuous employment with the Company. In the interim, restricted shareholders will receive dividends on the shares. Upon vesting, shares will be certificated. The Company recognizes compensation expense over the vesting period equal to the fair market value of the shares on the date of issuance, adjusted for any forfeiture. In 2005 and 2004, 84,250 and 18,000 shares, respectively, of restricted common shares were granted to certain trustees, executive officers and employees. In 2005, 3,000 restricted common shares were forfeited. Deferred compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, was approximately $0.3 million and $0.02 million, respectively. The weighted average grant fair value per share granted during 2005 and 2004, was $14.74 and $12.98, respectively. Under these awards, 99,250 shares were outstanding, of which 81,550 were unvested, as of December 31, 2005.
The shares for board members vest on the first anniversary of the date of grant while the shares for employees vest over three years (1/3 on each anniversary) provided that they remain in the continuous full-time employ of the Company. In the interim restricted shareholders will receive dividends on the shares. Upon vesting, shares will be certificated. The amount of compensation cost was based upon the fair market value of the shares at date of grant and is amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period after amounts that vest immediately are expensed.
11. RETIREMENT PLAN
The Company has a 40l(k) retirement plan. New employees must be employed for six consecutive months before becoming eligible for semiannual enrollment. The Company contributes a matching contribution equal to 50% of employee contributions. The maximum amount of matching contributions paid by the Company is 3% of the employee's salary which vests 20% per year. Total contributions for the year ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 amounted to approximately $0.04 million, $0.02 million and $0.03 million respectively.
12. LEASING
The following table displays the Company's portfolio of in-service leases, which contain escalation provisions and provisions requiring tenants to pay their pro rata share of operating expenses. The leases typically include renewal options and all are classified and accounted for as operating leases.
At December 31, 2005, future minimum rentals to be received during the next five years (and thereafter) under existing non-cancelable leases, excluding tenants' current pro rata share of operating expenses, are as follows:
The Company has entered into fourteen ground leases as lessee in connection with its real estate portfolio. In addition, the Company has entered into leases for certain office space and office equipment.
The following is a schedule by year of future minimum rental payments required under operating leases that have initial or remaining noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31, 2005:
Total rental expense for all operating leases was approximately $0.3 million, $0.3 million and $0.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
13. SEGMENT REPORTING
The Company is engaged in two operating segments: the ownership and rental of specialty medical facilities ("Rental Operations"), and the providing of various real estate services such as third-party facility planning, project management, medical equipment planning and implementation services and related activities through its taxable REIT subsidiary, HADC ("Service Operations"). The Company's reportable segments offer different products or services and are managed separately because each requires different operating strategies and management expertise.
To reconcile to total assets, non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including cash, deferred financing costs and other assets.
The Company assesses and measures segment operating results based on an industry performance measure referred to as Funds From Operations ("FFO"). The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts defines FFO as net income or loss, excluding gains or losses from sales of depreciated operating property, plus operating property depreciation and amortization and adjustments for minority interest and unconsolidated companies on the same basis. FFO is not a measure of operating results or cash flows from operating activities as measured by generally accepted accounting principles, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity. The Company believes that FFO is helpful in understanding the Company's operating performance in that FFO excludes depreciation and amortization expense on real estate assets. The Company believes that GAAP historical cost depreciation of real estate assets is generally not correlated with changes in the value of those assets, whose value does not diminish predictably over time, as historical cost depreciation implies. The revenues and FFO for each of the reportable segments for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and the assets for each of the reportable segments as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and the reconciliation of consolidated FFO to net income available for common shareholders, are summarized as follows:
REVENUES FOR SEGMENTS
 
FFO FOR SEGMENTS
ASSETS FOR SEGMENTS
 
14. Shareholders' Equity
We periodically access the public equity markets to fund the development and acquisition of additional rental properties or to pay down debt.
On March 15, 2005, the Company completed an offering of 1,700,000 (plus an additional 253,500 shares to cover the over-allotments) common shares at an offering price of $13.91 per share. The net proceeds of this offering, after deducting placement agent fees and estimated offering expenses, were approximately $22.2 million (plus $3.3 million for the over-allotment). The Company used the proceeds of this offering primarily to repay outstanding indebtedness and the Company's secured revolving credit facility and for working capital purposes.
On April 1, 2005, the Company filed a registration statement to expand its Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) to include a direct stock purchase feature. Newly issued common shares purchased under the DRIP directly from the Company will be purchased at a 3% discount from the average market price at the time of purchase with the Company having the authority to change the discount at any time in the future. During 2005, the Company sold approximately 565,000 shares under this plan and received proceeds of approximately $8.0 million as a result.
On June 30, 2005, the Company issued and sold 2,100,000 shares of 7.5% Series A Cumulative Preferred Shares. The net proceeds from the offering were approximately $51.1 million, after placement fees and expenses, and were used to repay indebtedness, for general corporate purposes, to pay a portion of the purchase price for one medical office property acquired on July 14, 2005, and to fund future acquisitions. Each Series A preferred share is convertible by the holder into the Company's common shares of beneficial interest at a conversion price of $15.75, equivalent to a conversion rate of 1.5873 common shares per Series A preferred share. The Series A preferred shares have no stated maturity and are not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption, but may be redeemed by the Company at a price of $25.00 per share, plus any accrued but unpaid dividends, beginning on June 30, 2010. The Series A preferred shares require cumulative distributions.
On September 12, 2005, the Company's registration statement to issue and sell 1,200,000 of common shares from time to time in "at the market" equity offerings was declared effective by the SEC. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company issued and sold 66,800 common shares and received net proceeds of approximately $1.0 million as a result.
On November 22, 2005, the Company completed an offering of 3,000,000 common shares at an offering price of $14.10 per share. The net proceeds of this offering, after deducting placement agent fees and other offering expenses, were approximately $40.7 million. The Company used the proceeds of this offering primarily to fund a portion of the purchase prices of a multi-property portfolio acquired in the second half of the fourth quarter of 2005.
15. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In December 2004, FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (R), "Share-Based Payment," which is a revision of SFAS No. 123," Accounting for Stock Based Compensation," ("SFAS 123"). In April 2005, the SEC delayed the effective date on SFAS No. 123 (R) from July 2005 to January 2006. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 123 (R) effective as of January 1, 2006. The adoption of 123 (R) will not have a material impact on earnings per share.
In March 2005, FASB Interpretation No. 47, ("FIN 47"), was issued for all fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. This is an interpretation of SFAS No. 143, Upon evaluation, the Company has determined that the adoption of FIN 47 did not have a material impact on its financial statements.
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations and is effective.
In June 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") FASB ratified the consensus reached in Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") No. 04-5, ("EITF 04-5"). EITF 04-5 is effective for all newly formed limited partnerships after the consensus was ratified and as of January 2006 for all prexisting limited partnership agreements. This consensus applies to limited partnerships or similar entities, such as limited liability companies, that have governing provisions that are the functional equivalent of a limited partnership. The Company has consolidated a limited partnership in which it was the sole general partner and the limited partners did not have substantial participating rights or substantial kickout rights.
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
16. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On January 30, 2006, the Company borrowed an additional $7.0 million under its commitment for a $20 million unsecured bridge loan with KeyBank National Association. On January 30, 2006, the lenders' obligation to fund loan requests under the bridge loan terminated. As of January 30, 2006, the Company had approximately $17.0 million of outstanding indebtedness under the bridge loan. The additional $7.0 million loan bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 3.0% or the lender's base rate plus 1.75% (7.58% at January 30, 2006).
 
On March 3, 2006, the Company entered into three purchase agreements to acquire three medical office properties. Two of the properties are located in Houston, Texas, and the third is located in San Antonio, Texas. The three properties total approximately 231,530 rentable square feet. The total aggregate price for the three properties is approximately $81.3 million, subject to certain customary closing adjustments and other allocations. There can be no assurances that the Company will close any, or all, of these acquisitions in a timely manner or at all.
The Company expects to fund the purchase price with cash drawn from the Company's second amended and restated senior secured revolving lines of credit, mortgage financing to be placed on the properties at the time of acquisition and units of limited partnership interest ("Units") of the Operating Partnership. The Company expects to issue a total of 470,558 Units with an initial aggregate value of approximately $5.6 million (the "Unit Value") based on a price per Unit of $15.00. Each of the Sellers represented in the Purchase Agreements that it qualified as an "accredited investor" as that term is defined in Rule 501(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and the Units will be issued pursuant to certain exemptions from registration, including, without limitation, the exemptions provided by Rule 506 of Regulation D under the Securities Act and by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
If the five-day average closing price of the Company's common shares, as reported by the NYSE, on the date immediately preceding the closing of the properties acquisition is less than $12.00 per share, then the Partnership will not issue Units. In this event, the Company will issue a note to the Sellers having an aggregate value equal to the Unit Value. The note will be payable within 30 days of the closing, without interest.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     The interim condensed consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by Windrose Medical Properties Trust ("Windrose" or the "Company") without audit, except for the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005, which was derived from audited consolidated financial statements. The statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") for interim financial information and in accordance with Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
     The preparation of the interim condensed consolidated financial statements requires management of the Company to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reported amount of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
2. THE COMPANY
Overview
     The Company was formed to acquire, selectively develop and manage specialty medical properties, such as medical office buildings, ambulatory surgery centers, outpatient treatment and diagnostic facilities, and specialty hospitals and other treatment centers. The Company had no operations prior to its initial public offering on August 16, 2002. The Company's rental operations are conducted through Windrose Medical Properties, LP ("Windrose OP" or the "Operating Partnership"). The Company is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and owned approximately 98.4% of the Operating Partnership as of September 30, 2006. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, the Operating Partnership and their majority-owned subsidiaries.
     The Company also conducts third party facility planning, project management, medical equipment planning and implementation services and related activities through Hospital Affiliates Development Corporation ("HADC"), a wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS") of the Operating Partnership.
Significant Changes and Events
     On September 13, 2006, the Company and Health Care REIT, Inc. announced a definitive merger agreement whereby the Company will merge with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of Health Care REIT, Inc. ("Health Care REIT"). The transaction will be consummated through the issuance of Health Care REIT, Inc. common stock in exchange for the Company's outstanding common shares and partnership interests in the Operating Partnership and a new series of preferred stock with substantially similar terms to the Company's preferred shares and the assumption of the Company's liabilities. The Company anticipates that the merger will close near the end of the fourth quarter of 2006.
3. NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE
     Basic net income per common share is computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per common share is computed by dividing the sum of net income available to common shareholders and minority interest in income of common unit holders, by the sum of the weighted average number of common shares and common units outstanding and dilutive potential common shares issuable for the period based on the treasury stock method. The common shares issuable upon conversion of the Company's Series A cumulative convertible preferred shares are anti-dilutive (, would increase net income per common share) and, therefore, are not included in the calculation of dilutive potential common shares issuable for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005.
i.e.
     Due to the net loss for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, loss per share, basic and dilutive common shares are the same since the effect of potential common shares would have an anti-dilutive effect. The following table reconciles the components of basic and diluted net income per common share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 (in thousands):
 
 
4. STOCK BASED COMPENSATION
     Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for its stock-based employee compensation arrangements under the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, ("APB No. 25"), as allowed by SFAS No. 123, ("SFAS No. 123"), as amended by SFAS No. 148, ("SFAS No. 148"). As a result, no expense was recognized for options to purchase the Company's common shares that were granted with an exercise price equal to fair market value at the date of grant. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) ("SFAS No. 123R"), which replaces SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB No. 25. SFAS No. 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values beginning with the first annual period after December 15, 2005. Subsequent to the effective date, the pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS No. 123 are no longer an alternative to financial statement recognition. For purposes of pro forma disclosure, the estimated fair value of the stock awards, as prescribed by SFAS No. 123, would have been amortized to expense over the vesting period of such awards as shown in the following table (in thousands, except per share data):
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure
Share-Based Payment
 
     Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method. Under this method, compensation cost recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 includes the compensation cost for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimate in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123, and the compensation cost for all share-based payments granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123R amortized on a straight-line basis over the options' vesting period. As a result of adopting SFAS No. 123R on January 1, 2006, the Company's net income was lower by approximately $72,000 and $124,000 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, respectively, than had the Company continued to account for stock-based employee compensation under APB No. 25. There was no effect on basic and diluted earnings per common share as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. The adoption of SFAS No. 123R had no impact on cash flows from operating or financing activities.
Stock Option Plan
     Over time, the Company has utilized various features of its stock-based compensation program, the key components of which are further described below. The primary active stock-based compensation program is the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, which was amended and restated, effective as of May 18, 2006 (the "2002 Plan"). All stock-based compensation programs are administered by the Board of Trustees or its Compensation Committee. The 2002 Plan reserves for issuances an aggregate of 2.0 million common shares, of which approximately 1.1 million were available for future awards under the 2002 Plan as of September 30, 2006.
     The compensation expense for stock options for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 was approximately $72,000 and $124,000, respectively. All options granted to employees, including executive officers, vest ratably in five annual installments commencing on the grant date except for: (1) options to purchase 35,068 common shares issued to executive officers on August 16, 2002 (50% of which vested on the grant date and 50% of which vested on the first anniversary of the grant date); (2) options to purchase 21,466 common shares issued to executive officers on August 16, 2002 (8,333 of which vested on the grant date, 8,333 of which vested on the first anniversary of the grant date, and 1,600 of which vested in each of the following three years); (3) options to purchase 50,000 common shares issued to executive officers on August 5, 2003 (50% of which vested on the date of grant and 50% of which vested on August 5, 2004); and (4) options to purchase 50,000 common shares issued to executive officers on August 1, 2004 (50% of which vested on the date of grant and 50% of which vested on August 1, 2005). All stock options granted have a 10 year contractual term.
     Options granted to trustees vest ratably in two equal annual installments beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date, except for options to purchase 6,000 common shares issued to trustees on August 16, 2002, which were fully vested on the grant date.
     The fair value of the options granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 was determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:
 
     The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon interest rates appropriate for the term of the Company's employee stock options. The dividend yield assumption is based on the Company's history and expectation of dividend payouts. The computation of expected volatility for the valuation of stock options granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 is based on historical volatility. The expected life of employee stock options represents the period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding.
     A summary of the status of the Company's shares issuable upon exercise of options as of September 30, 2006, and changes during the nine months ended September 30, 2006, follows:
     The total fair value of shares vested was approximately $175,000 and $126,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, and 2005, respectively.
     Total unrecognized compensation expense for non-vested restricted common shares was approximately $915,000 as of September 30, 2006. Total unrecognized compensation expense for non-vested stock options was approximately $375,000 as of September 30, 2006.
     The amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options was approximately $118,000 and $815,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
     The intrinsic value of stock options exercised in the nine months ended September 30, 2006 was approximately $28,000. The intrinsic values of stock options exercised were based on the closing prices of the Company's common shares on the dates of the exercise.
Restricted Shares
     From time to time, the Company awards restricted common shares under the Company's 2002 Plan to trustees, executive officers and employees, which generally vest over one to eight years provided the recipient remains in continuous employment with the Company. Holders of restricted common shares receive dividends on the vested and unvested portions of their restricted common shares. Upon vesting, shares are certificated. The Company recognizes compensation expense over the vesting period equal to the fair market value of the shares on the date of issuance, which is adjusted by the estimated forfeiture calculation, in accordance with SFAS No. 123R. In the nine months ended September 30, 2006, 1,200 restricted common shares were granted to an executive. These restricted common shares vest ratably in three equal
 
annual installments on October 1, 2006, 2007, and 2008. In the nine months ended September 30, 2006, 3,350 restricted common shares were forfeited. The compensation expense for restricted common shares for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 was approximately $95,000 and $285,000, respectively. The compensation expense for restricted common shares for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 was approximately $28,000 and $121,000, respectively. The weighted average grant date fair value per share granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 was $14.84. Under these awards, 98,000 shares were outstanding, of which 74,200 were unvested, as of September 30, 2006.
     A summary of the status of the Company's restricted common shares as of September 30, 2006 and changes during the nine months ended September 30, 2006, follows:
5. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
     The Company is exposed to capital market risk, such as changes in interest rates. In order to manage the volatility relating to interest rate risk, the Company may enter into interest rate hedging arrangements from time to time. The Company does not utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The Company accounts for derivative instruments under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, ("SFAS 133"), as amended by SFAS No. 138, ("SFAS 138").
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities
     As of September 30, 2006, the Company had the following interest rate swap contracts that met the criteria of SFAS 133 to qualify for hedge accounting:
     In February 2004, the Company entered into an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $23.0 million as a hedge to effectively fix the rate on a secured loan assumed with the acquisition of a specialty medical office building in Voorhees, New Jersey. The swap qualified for
 
hedge accounting under SFAS 133; therefore, changes in fair value were recorded in other comprehensive income. The interest rate swap matured during 2005 and was not renewed.
     In addition, an interest rate swap was acquired in connection with the acquisition of the Urology Center of the South, and the debt related to the swap was retired at the time of the acquisition. Therefore, the swap did not qualify for hedge accounting. At the time the associated debt was retired, the breakage fee for the swap was approximately $400,000, and the Company recorded this amount as a liability. This interest rate swap was settled on March 4, 2005 at a price of approximately $200,000, resulting in an additional gain during the first quarter of 2005 of approximately $70,000.
     The Company consolidated the operations of two partnerships in its consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005. These partnerships are partially owned by unaffiliated parties that have non-controlling interests. SFAS No. 150, ("SFAS 150"), requires the disclosure of the estimated settlement value of the non-controlling interests in these consolidated partnerships. As of September 30, 2006, the estimated settlement value of the non-controlling interests in these consolidated partnerships was approximately $4.0 million, as compared to approximately $212,000 minority interest liability reported in our financial statements for these partnerships.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity
6. REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS
     As of September 30, 2006, the Company owned 92 buildings consisting of approximately 3.5 million rentable square feet, which included 74 medical office buildings, four outpatient treatment diagnostic centers, seven ambulatory surgery centers/physician group practice clinics, one specialty hospital and treatment center and six commercial office buildings. The Company also owns two undeveloped parcels of land.
     The Company utilizes the guidelines established under the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, ("SFAS 144"). SFAS 144 requires the Company to report in discontinued operations the results of operations of a property which has either been disposed or is classified as held-for-sale, unless certain conditions are met.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
     The following table illustrates the operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 of a building sold on February 2, 2005 and included in discontinued operations for such period (in thousands):
7. RELATED PARTIES AND OTHER TRANSACTIONS
     In the normal course of business and, in management's opinion, at terms comparable to those available from unrelated third parties, the Company has engaged in transactions with certain affiliates from time to time.
     The Company, through its Operating Partnership, has an overhead sharing agreement with Klipsch Audio, Inc. The Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Fred S. Klipsch, serves as Chairman of the Board of Klipsch Audio, Inc. The Company's President, Chief Operating Officer and Treasurer, Frederick L. Farrar currently maintains the title of Executive Vice President of, but has no daily
 
responsibilities to, Klipsch Audio, Inc. Under this agreement, Klipsch Audio, Inc. provides the Company with executive office space and certain office support services in exchange for monthly payments of $17,500. The term of this agreement is for one year and renews automatically for an additional year on each anniversary of its effective date unless either party provides notice to the other party 90 days prior to the expiration of the current term. The Company also paid Klipsch Audio, Inc. approximately $10,505 per month to lease office space for certain business units within the Company during 2005. Effective in the second quarter of 2006, the total monthly lease payments increased to approximately $16,900 per month, reflecting the expansion of the Company into additional office space. The Company also pays approximately $3,000 per month to Klipsch Audio, Inc. for human resources and employee search services. The Company also occasionally uses a private aircraft partially owned by a company affiliated with the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, usually for financing and acquisition activities. The Company pays an hourly rate for its use of the aircraft. The Company also pays this company certain miscellaneous pass through expenses on a monthly basis.
     HADC provides property management services to a third party entity, Sumner Medical Plaza, L.L.C., in which certain of our executive officers, including Messrs. Klipsch, Farrar and McCoin, have an ownership interest. Mr. McCoin, Executive Vice President of the Company, serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of HADC. Mr. Farrar, President, Chief Operating Officer and Treasurer of the Company, also serves as Chairman of the Board of HADC.
     National Healthcare Associates ("NHA"), a consulting firm that is owned by the wife of Mr. McCoin, performs consulting services for HADC. Contract approval is required from the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
8. LEASING
     The following table displays the Company's portfolio of in-service leases, which contain escalation provisions and provisions requiring tenants to pay their pro rata share of operating expenses. The leases typically include renewal options, and all are classified and accounted for as operating leases.
     At September 30, 2006, future minimum rentals to be received during the next five years (and thereafter) under existing non-cancelable leases, excluding tenants' current pro rata share of operating expenses, are as follows (in thousands):
9. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK
     Although the Company had no tenant that leased more than 10% of its total rentable square footage as of September 30, 2006, the Company does have a significant number of properties located in two geographic locations. Approximately 20% and 8% of the Company's rentable square footage is located in Southern Florida (in proximity to West Palm Beach, Florida) and in the Houston, Texas metropolitan area, respectively. The Southern Florida area represented approximately 23% and 22% of the Company's total rental revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, respectively. The Houston, Texas metropolitan area represented approximately 11% of the Company's total rental revenue for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006. As a result, localized adverse events or conditions, such as economic recession, overbuilding in the local real estate markets or severe weather could have a significant adverse effect on the operations of these properties, and ultimately on the amounts available for distribution to shareholders.
10. INDEBTEDNESS
$125.0 Million Secured Revolving Credit Facility with Health Care REIT
     On September 12, 2006, Windrose OP entered into a loan agreement, dated as of September 12, 2006, with Health Care REIT, pursuant to which Health Care REIT has agreed to provide Windrose OP with a $125.0 million secured revolving line of credit. If the proposed merger between Health Care REIT and Windrose, which is discussed above in Note 2, "The Company  Significant Changes and
 
Events," does not close by January 10, 2007 and certain other conditions are satisfied, the maximum amount of this revolving credit facility may be increased, at Windrose OP's option, to $150.0 million. Windrose OP's obligations under the revolving credit facility have been guaranteed by Windrose pursuant to an unconditional and continuing guaranty, dated as of September 12, 2006, between Windrose and Health Care REIT.
     Interest accrues on the principal amount outstanding under the revolving credit facility at a rate equal to LIBOR plus 2.5%, subject to adjustment (as discussed below) (the "Stated Interest Rate"). Except as discussed below, the revolving credit facility requires the monthly payment of interest only at a rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.6% (the "Current Interest Rate"). If Windrose and Health Care REIT complete the merger, Windrose OP will be obligated to repay the outstanding principal balance of the loan, accrued and unpaid interest at a rate equal to the Current Interest Rate and all other amounts payable by Windrose OP in cash at closing. Additionally, if the merger is completed, Windrose OP will not be required to repay the amount of interest equal to the difference between the amount of interest accrued at the Stated Interest Rate minus the amount of interest accrued at the Current Interest Rate.
     If the merger agreement between Windrose and Health Care REIT is terminated for any reason, the Stated Interest Rate will be increased by 0.2% beginning on the date that is 91 days after the date the merger agreement is terminated. The Stated Interest Rate will continue to increase by 0.2% each month beginning in the second full month after the date that is 91 days after the date the merger agreement is terminated. Upon the termination of the merger agreement, the principal amount outstanding under the revolving credit facility and accrued and unpaid interest will be repaid as follows:
     Windrose OP may prepay all or any portion of the outstanding principal balance of the loan, all accrued and unpaid interest and all other amounts payable by Windrose OP without payment of any prepayment fee. In addition, the Loan Agreement contains customary events of default. Whenever any event of default occurs, Health Care REIT may, among other remedies, declare the outstanding principal balance of the loan, all accrued and unpaid interest and all other amounts payable by Windrose OP under the revolving credit facility immediately due and payable, without notice. All such amounts will bear interest at the default rate, which is equal to the Stated Interest Rate plus 4.0% per annum, from the date of the event of default until paid.
     Pursuant to the terms of the Mortgage, Security Agreement, Assignment of Leases and Rents and Fixture Filing (the "Mortgage"), Windrose OP has granted Health Care REIT a lien on and security interest in certain real estate assets acquired by Windrose OP with borrowings under the revolving credit facility. The Mortgage also provides that if the credit facility with The Huntington National Bank described below is terminated, Windrose OP will grant Health Care REIT a lien on and security interest in the property securing the indebtedness under the Huntington credit facility.
     As of September 30, 2006, there was no outstanding balance under the revolving credit facility with Health Care REIT.
Secured Revolving Credit Facility and Unsecured Line of Credit
     On September 19, 2006, Windrose OP entered into the Third Amended and Restated Secured Revolving Credit Agreement (the "New Credit Agreement") with the Huntington National Bank ("Huntington"), which amended and restated the Second and Amended Secured Revolving Credit Agreement with Huntington (the "Old Credit Agreement"). The New Credit Agreement provides for two loan facilities: (1) a secured revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $50.0 million, subject to increase as discussed below, for the acquisition and development of real estate assets and for working capital purposes (the "Revolving Facility"), and (ii) an unsecured line of credit in an amount not to exceed $3.0 million for the issuance of letters of credit (the "LOC Facility"). The Revolving Facility matures on September 30, 2007. However, the Revolving Facility's maturity date may be extended to September 30, 2008 if Windrose OP is not in default and pays Huntington an extension fee in the amount of 0.25% of the maximum principal amount of the Revolving Facility. Amounts borrowed under the LOC Facility are due and payable on demand and, in any event, not later than the applicable maturity date of the Revolving Facility.
     The Revolving Facility contains an accordion feature that permits Windrose OP to request an increase in the size of the revolving Facility to $70 million to the extent that Huntington or any other participating lenders elect to increase their commitments under the Revolving
 
Facility, provided that Windrose OP may not request an increase in the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Facility if an event of default has occurred and is continuing.
     Amounts borrowed under the Revolving Facility up to $38.5 million bear interest, at Windrose OP's option, at an annual rate of either LIBOR plus 1.5%, or a rate equal to Huntington's prime rate. Amounts borrowed under the Revolving Facility in excess of $38.5 million bear interest, at Windrose OP's option, at an annual rate of either LIBOR plus 1.75%, or a rate equal to Huntington's prime rate. The LOC Facility will bear interest at an annual rate equal to Huntington's prime rate. The Revolving Facility is collateralized by a secured asset pool consisting of certain real estate assets owned by special purpose entities controlled by Windrose OP's future subordinated indebtedness and are absolutely and unconditionally guaranteed by Windrose pursuant to the Third Amended and Restated Guaranty, dated as of September 19, 2006, made by Windrose to and for the benefit of Huntington (the "New Guaranty").
     The New Credit Agreement contains customary representation and warranties. In addition, the New Credit Agreement limits Windrose OP's ability to, among other things, change the nature of its business, incur indebtedness, create liens, engage in mergers, consolidations or certain other transactions, or enter into, modify, amend, alter, terminate, or cancel any "Major Lease" (as defined in the New Credit Agreement) for a property that collateralizes the Revolving Facility. The New Credit Agreement contains certain customary events of default that generally give the lenders the right to accelerate payments of outstanding debt, including but not limited to the following; failure to maintain required financial covenant ratios, as described below; failure to make any payment when due within 10 days of its due date; occurrence of certain insolvency proceedings with respect to Windrose OP, Windrose or a subsidiary thereof; a change of control of Windrose OP and Windrose; Windrose's dividends exceed 100% of its funds from operations as determined in accordance with the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trust's definition of the term in any calendar year; the aggregate occupancy of the properties that collateralize the Revolving Facility is less than 85%; or if Fred Klipsch shall cease to be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Windrose or Fred Farrar shall cease to be President and Chief Operating Officer of Windrose OP and replacement(s) acceptable to the lenders are not in place within 90 days.
     Under the New Credit Agreement, Windrose OP, and in certain cases in conjunction with Windrose and Windrose OP's subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, must comply with certain financial covenants including the following: (i) a leverage ratio less than 70%, (ii) a minimum tangible net worth greater than $120 million plus 75% of additional net proceeds of future stock sales, (iii) a debt service coverage ratio greater than 1.8 to 1.0 during any calendar quarter and (iv) a debt service coverage ratio for the Revolving Facility greater than 1.4 to 1.0. Windrose, Windrose OP and their subsidiaries are also limited to incurring recourse indebtedness in an amount not to exceed 30% of the total current value of their assets on a consolidated basis.
     As of September 30, 2006, Windrose OP was in default of one covenant due to significant expenses incurred during the third quarter of 2006 and related to the pending merger with Health Care REIT; however, Huntington has waived compliance for the quarter. There was $50.0 million outstanding under this credit facility as of September 30, 2006.
Secured Working Capital Line of Credit
     The Company has a $4.0 million secured credit facility with Regions Bank, secured by the first mortgage on the 310 25th Avenue medical office building located in Nashville, Tennessee. Amounts borrowed under the secured credit facility have a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.5% (6.83% at September 30, 2006). The maturity date of this loan was extended to January 2007. There was $4.0 million outstanding under this credit facility as of September 30, 2006.
Secured Term Loans
     On March 27, 2006, a property-level subsidiary of the Company entered into a $19 million secured term loan with Charter One Bank, N.A. ("Charter One"). The proceeds from the loan were used to pay off the outstanding balance of a $24 million secured construction loan incurred in connection with the development of the Foundation Surgical Hospital (the "Foundation Hospital Loan"). The loan is secured by a first mortgage on Foundation Surgical Hospital and requires regular scheduled payments of principal and interest. The loan is fixed through an interest rate swap (5.21% at September 30, 2006) effective September 5, 2006. This loan has a maturity date of March 27, 2011. There was $19 million outstanding under this secured term loan as of September 30, 2006.
     On March 27, 2006, a property-level subsidiary of the Company entered into a $17 million secured term loan with Charter One. The proceeds from the loan were used to pay off the outstanding balance of an $18 million secured construction loan incurred in connection with the development of the Foundation Professional Office Building (the "Foundation Office Building Loan"). The loan is secured by a first mortgage on Foundation Professional Office Building and requires regular scheduled payments of principal and interest. The loan is fixed through an interest rate swap (5.21% at September 30, 2006) effective September 5, 2006. This loan has a maturity date of March 27, 2011. There was $17 million outstanding under this secured term loan as of September 30, 2006.
Construction Loan Facility
 
     On March 29, 2006, a property-level subsidiary of the Company repaid in full the outstanding principal and interest and terminated the $24 million Foundation Hospital Loan made by The Huntington National Bank, LaSalle National Association, and KeyBank National Association. In addition, a property-level subsidiary of the Company repaid in full the outstanding principal and interest and terminated the $18 million Foundation Office Building Loan made by The Huntington National Bank, LaSalle National Association, and KeyBank National Association.
Senior Unsecured Bridge Loan
     On March 24, 2006, the Company repaid all outstanding indebtedness under a senior unsecured bridge loan, totaling approximately $17.1 million. Upon repayment of this indebtedness, the bridge loan was terminated.
Trust Preferred Securities
     On March 24, 2006, the Operating Partnership's wholly-owned subsidiary, Windrose Capital Trust I (the "Trust"), completed the issuance and sale in a private placement of $50 million in aggregate principal amount of fixed/floating rate preferred securities (the "Trust Preferred Securities"). The Trust Preferred Securities mature on March 30, 2036, are redeemable at the Company's option beginning March 30, 2011, and require quarterly distributions of interest by the Trust to the holders of the Trust Preferred Securities. The Trust Preferred Securities bear a fixed rate per annum equal to 7.22% through March 30, 2011, and a variable rate per annum equal to LIBOR plus 2.05% thereafter.
     The Operating Partnership purchased the common stock of the Trust (the "Common Securities") for $1.0 million. The Trust used the proceeds from the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities together with the proceeds from the sale of the Common Securities to purchase $51 million in aggregate principal amount of unsecured fixed/floating junior subordinated notes due March 30, 2036 issued by the Operating Partnership (the "Junior Subordinated Notes"). The Operating Partnership received approximately $49 million in net proceeds, after the payment of fees and expenses, from the sale of the Junior Subordinated Notes to the Trust. The Operating Partnership used approximately $17.1 million of the net proceeds to repay all outstanding indebtedness under the bridge loan described above.
     In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) the Company has not consolidated the Trust because the Operating Partnership is not considered the primary beneficiary.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,
Mortgage Debt
     On September 29, 2006, a property-level subsidiary of the Company entered into a $6.8 million secured term loan with The Huntington National Bank. The loan is secured by a first mortgage on the Clearlake Rehabilitation Hospital located in Webster, TX and requires regular scheduled payments of principal and interest. Amounts borrowed under the secured term loan have a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.4% (6.72% at September 30, 2006). This loan has a maturity date of September 29, 2011. There was $6.8 million outstanding under this secured term loan as of September 30, 2006.
     The following is a summary of the book value of outstanding mortgage debt, excluding the lines of credit and Trust Preferred Securities mentioned above, as of September 30, 2006 (in thousands):
 
 
     At September 30, 2006, scheduled amortization and maturities of indebtedness, exclusive of debt premiums, including lines of credit, for the next five years and thereafter follows (in thousands):
11. SEGMENT REPORTING
     The Company is engaged in two operating segments: the ownership and rental of specialty medical facilities ("Rental Operations"), and the provision of various real estate services such as third party facility planning, project management, medical equipment planning and implementation services and related activities through its taxable REIT subsidiary, HADC ("Service Operations"). The Company's reportable segments offer different products or services and are managed separately because each requires different operating strategies and management expertise.
     To reconcile to total assets, non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including cash, deferred financing costs and other assets. The revenues for each of the reportable segments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the assets for each of the reportable segments as of September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, are summarized as follows (in thousands):
 
12. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
     The Company periodically accesses the public equity markets to fund the development and acquisition of additional rental properties or to pay down debt.
     On April 1, 2005, the Company filed a registration statement to expand its Dividend Reinvestment Plan ("DRIP") to include a direct stock purchase feature. On January 24, 2006, the Company filed a new registration statement to register 4.0 million additional shares under the DRIP. Newly issued common shares purchased under the DRIP directly from the Company will be purchased at a 3% discount from the average market price at the time of purchase with the Company having the authority to change the discount at any time. During the three months and nine ended September 30, 2006, the Company sold approximately 236,000 and approximately 1.0 million shares, respectively, under this plan and received net proceeds of approximately $3.4 million and approximately $14.9 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2006, there were approximately 3.0 million common shares remaining on the current registration statement available for future sale. The Company agreed in the merger agreement with Health Care REIT that it would not issue any common shares under the DRIP prior to either the completion of the merger or the termination of the merger agreement.
     On September 12, 2005, the Company's registration statement to issue and sell 1.2 million common shares from time to time in "at the market" equity offerings was declared effective by the SEC. There were no shares issued under this registration statement for the three months ended September 30, 2006. For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, there were approximately 89,000 shares issued for net proceeds of approximately $1.3 million. As of September 30, 2006, there were approximately 1.0 million shares remaining on this registration statement available for future sale. The Company agreed in the merger agreement with Health Care REIT that it would not issue any common shares under this registration statement prior to either the completion of the merger or the termination of the merger agreement.
     In April 2006, the Company sold approximately 2.3 million common shares at $14.80 per share raising approximately $32.3 million in net proceeds after underwriting discounts, commissions, and estimated offering expenses. With the proceeds of this offering, the Company repaid approximately $3.0 million of outstanding indebtedness under the Company's secured revolving facility and approximately $4.0 million of outstanding indebtedness under the secured working capital line of credit on April 18, 2006. Additionally, the Company used a portion of the proceeds to repay some of its outstanding variable rate indebtedness. The underwriters had a 30-day option to purchase an additional 345,000 common shares to cover any over-allotments. On May 4, 2006, the underwriters exercised the over-allotment option to purchase 299,277 additional common shares in connection with the April 2006 offering of common shares for additional net proceeds of approximately $4.2 million after underwriting discounts, commissions and estimated offering expenses.
     On June 16, 2006, the Company filed a registration statement to register for future issuance and sale of an aggregate of $350 million in securities consisting of common and preferred shares of beneficial interest and debt securities.
13. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
     On October 2, 2006, the Company completed the purchase of a medical office building for a purchase price of approximately $18.9 million. The building is located in Middletown, New York. The Company funded the purchase using approximately $11.7 million from its secured revolving credit facility with Huntington and the remainder with cash.
14. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
     In June 2006, FASB Interpretation No. 48, ("FIN 48"), was issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. This is an interpretation of SFAS No. 109, . Upon evaluation, the Company has determined that the adoption of FIN 48 will not have a material impact on its financial statements.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
Accounting for Income Taxes
     In September 2006, FASB issued FASB No. 157, ("SFAS 157"), which is effective prospectively for the fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2007. SFAS 157 provides a single authoritative definition of fair value, a framework for measuring fair value, and requires additional disclosure about fair value measurements. Although the Company has not completed its analysis of SFAS 157, it is not expected to have a material impact.
Fair Value Measurements
 
     In September 2006, the Securities Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, ("SAB 108). SAB 108 provides guidance regarding the process of qualifying financial statement misstatements. In order to halt the current diversity in practice, SAB 108 recommends that registrants should quantify errors using both a balance sheet approach (the "iron curtain" method) and an income statement approach (the "rollover" approach). The balance sheet approach quantifies a misstatement based on the effects of correcting the misstatement existing in the balance sheet at the end of the current year, irrespective of the misstatement's year(s) of origination. The income statement qualifies a misstatement based on the amount of the error originating in the current year income statement, while ignoring the carryover effects of prior year misstatements. SAB 108 recommends that companies quantify an error under both the rollover and iron curtain approaches and by evaluating the materiality of the error measured under each approach. If deemed material, companies would be required to adjust their financial statements. SAB 108 is effective for the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006. The Company will adopt SAB 108 in the fourth quarter of 2006 and is in the process of assessing the impact on its results of operations, financial position and liquidity.
Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Qualifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements
15. RECLASSIFICATIONS
     Certain 2005 balances have been reclassified to conform to the 2006 presentation.


