FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20060510170459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01
Other Events.
Discontinued Operations
          Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, certain assets of the Company are now classified as discontinued operations due to their sale during the three months ended March 31, 2006 or their classification as held for sale at March 31, 2006. As a result, the Company is reclassifying in this Current Report its operations, including rental income, interest expense and provision for depreciation related to those assets for prior periods. In so doing, the Company is updating portions of Items 6, 7 and 8 of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, including the information regarding discontinued operations contained in "Item 6  Selected Financial Data," "Item 7  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Results of Operations" and "Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." The application of Statement No. 144 had no effect on net income available to common stockholders.
          All other information contained in the Form 10-K and the other portions of Items 6, 7 and 8 have not been updated or modified (with the exception of certain minor changes to Items 7 and 8 to reflect proper cross-references). For more recent information regarding the Company, please see the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports and information filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission since May 10, 2006. Additionally, the Company is including, for informational purposes, Financial Statement Schedules III and IV, which are unchanged from Item 15 of the Form 10-K. The foregoing items are attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Adoption of Trading Plan
          Effective October 23, 2000, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") adopted new rules related to insider trading. One of these rules, Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), provides an exemption to the insider trading rules in the form of an affirmative defense. Rule 10b5-1 recognizes the creation of formal programs under which executives and other insiders may sell the securities of publicly traded companies on a regular basis pursuant to written plans that are entered into at a time when the plan participants are not aware of material non-public information and that otherwise comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1.
 
          On January 28, 2003, the Board of Directors of Health Care REIT, Inc. (the "Company") adopted a resolution modifying its insider trading policy to allow insiders to sell securities of the Company pursuant to pre-arranged trading plans.
          On May 8, 2006, George L. Chapman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, entered into a new plan pursuant to which he instructed his broker to exercise options and sell up to 77,879 shares of the Company's common stock during the period between May 15, 2006 and June 30, 2007. The number of shares to be exercised and sold under Mr. Chapman's plan ranges from 2,500 to 20,879 shares per month, not including any unsold shares that might be carried over from a previous month.
          Reports of the details of actual sales under the plan will be filed by Mr. Chapman on Form 4 in accordance with SEC regulations.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
None.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
None.
(c) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Its: Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Dated: May 10, 2006

 
EXHIBIT 23
We consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 22, 2006 (except for Note 15 as to which the date is May 9, 2006) with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedules of Health Care REIT, Inc. included in this Current Report on Form 8-K in the following registration statements of Health Care REIT, Inc.:
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
Toledo, Ohio May 9, 2006

 
Exhibit 99.1
Item 6.
Selected Financial Data
          The following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2005 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
          The following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated financial statements of Health Care REIT, Inc. for the periods presented and should be read together with the notes thereto. Other important factors are identified in "Item 1  Business" and "Item 1A  Risk Factors" in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Executive Overview
     
Business
          Health Care REIT, Inc. is a self-administered, equity real estate investment trust that invests in health care and senior housing properties. Founded in 1970, we were the first REIT to invest exclusively in health care facilities. The following table summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2005:
 
          Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest in properties managed by experienced operators and diversify our investment portfolio by operator and geographic location.
          Substantially all of our revenues and sources of cash flows from operations are derived from operating lease rentals and interest earned on outstanding loans receivable. These items represent our primary source of liquidity to fund distributions and are dependent upon our operators' continued ability to make contractual rent and interest payments to us. To the extent that our operators experience operating difficulties and are unable to generate sufficient cash to make payments to us, there could be a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of facility and operator. Our asset management process includes review of monthly financial statements for each facility, periodic review of operator credit, periodic facility inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. In monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a proprietary database to collect and analyze facility-specific data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research to ascertain industry trends and risks. Through these asset management and research efforts, we are typically able to intervene at an early stage to address payment risk, and in so doing, support both the collectibility of revenue and the value of our investment.
          In addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also structure our investments to help mitigate payment risk. We typically limit our investments to no more than 90% of the appraised value of a property. Operating leases and loans are normally credit enhanced by guaranties and/or letters of credit. In addition, operating leases are typically structured as master leases and loans are generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the operator and its affiliates. As of December 31, 2005, 87% of our real property was subject to master leases.
 
          For the year ended December 31, 2005, rental income and interest income represented 90% and 8%, respectively, of total gross revenues (including discontinued operations). Prior to June 2004, our standard lease structure contained fixed annual rental escalators, which were generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period. Beginning in June 2004, our new standard lease structure contains annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant's properties. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. This lease structure initially generates lower revenues and earnings compared to leases with fixed escalators that require straight-lining, but enables us to generate additional organic growth and minimize non-cash straight-line rent over time. This change does not affect our cash flow or our ability to pay dividends. Our yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, the average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments.
          Depending upon the availability and cost of external capital, we anticipate making investments in additional facilities. New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our unsecured lines of credit arrangements, internally generated cash and the proceeds from sales of real property. Our investments generate internal cash from rent and interest receipts and principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under the unsecured lines of credit arrangements, is expected to be provided through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence of secured debt. We believe our liquidity and various sources of available capital are sufficient to fund operations, meet debt service obligations (both principal and interest), make dividend distributions and finance future investments.
          Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate returns to our stockholders. We expect to complete gross new investments of $450,000,000 to $550,000,000 in 2006, including acquisitions of $300,000,000 and funded new development of $150,000,000 to $250,000,000. We anticipate the sale of real property and the repayment of loans receivable totaling approximately $100,000,000 to $150,000,000 during 2006. It is possible that additional loan repayments or sales of real property may occur in the future. To the extent that loan repayments and real property sales exceed new investments, our revenues and cash flows from operations could be adversely affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any loan repayments and real property sales in new investments. To the extent that new investment requirements exceed our available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our unsecured lines of credit arrangements. At December 31, 2005, we had $36,237,000 of cash and cash equivalents and $345,000,000 of available borrowing capacity under our unsecured lines of credit arrangements.
     
Key Transactions in 2005
          We completed the following key transactions during the year ended December 31, 2005:
 
     
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties
          We utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of our business. These indicators are discussed below and relate to operating performance, credit strength and concentration risk. Management uses these key performance indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results, in making operating decisions and for budget planning purposes.
          We believe that net income available to common stockholders ("NICS") is the most appropriate earnings measure. Other useful supplemental measures of our operating performance include funds from operations ("FFO") and funds available for distribution ("FAD"); however, these supplemental measures are not defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principals ("U.S. GAAP"). Please refer to the section entitled "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for further discussion of FFO and FAD and for reconciliations of FFO and FAD to NICS. These earning measures and their relative per share amounts are widely used by investors and analysts in the valuation, comparison and investment recommendations of companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends of our operating performance measures (in thousands, except per share data):
Operating Performance.
          We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. Our leverage ratios include debt to book capitalization and debt to market capitalization. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt. Our coverage ratios include interest coverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to service interest and fixed charges (interest plus preferred dividends). We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain investment grade ratings with Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings. The coverage ratios are based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") which is discussed in further detail, and reconciled to net income, below in "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors, analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment recommendations and rating of companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends for our credit strength measures:
Credit Strength.
          We evaluate our concentration risk in terms of asset mix, investment mix, operator mix and geographic mix. Concentration risk is a valuable measure in understanding what portion of our investments could be at risk if certain sectors were to experience downturns. Asset mix measures the portion of our investments that are real property. In order to qualify as an equity REIT, at least 75% of our real estate investments must be real property whereby each property, which includes the land, buildings, improvements and related rights, is owned by us and
Concentration Risk.
 
leased to an operator pursuant to a long-term operating lease. Investment mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our various facility types. Operator mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our top five operators. The following table reflects our recent historical trends of concentration risk:
 
          We evaluate our key performance indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical trends are indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be achieved and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Management regularly monitors various economic and other factors to develop strategic and tactical plans designed to improve performance and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and to appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-specific trends. Please refer to "Item 1A  Risk Factors" in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 for further discussion.
     
Portfolio Update
          Payment coverages in our portfolio continue to improve. Our overall payment coverage is at 1.92 times and represents an increase of 14 basis points from 2004 and 39 basis points from 2003. The following table reflects our recent historical trends of portfolio coverages. Coverage data reflects the 12 months ended for the periods presented. CBMF represents the ratio of facilities' earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees to contractual rent or interest due us. CAMF represents the ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and rent (but after management fees) to contractual rent or interest due us.
 
     
Corporate Governance
          Maintaining investor confidence and trust has become increasingly important in today's business environment. Health Care REIT, Inc.'s Board of Directors and management are strongly committed to policies and procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our corporate governance guidelines provide the framework for our business operations and emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder value while meeting all applicable legal requirements. In March 2004, the Board of Directors adopted its Corporate Governance Guidelines. These guidelines meet the listing standards adopted by the New York Stock Exchange and are available on our Web site at www.hcreit.com and from us upon written request sent to the Vice President  Administration and Corporate Secretary, Health Care REIT, Inc., One SeaGate, Suite 1500, P.O. Box 1475, Toledo, Ohio 43603-1475.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
     
Sources and Uses of Cash
          Our primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, borrowings under unsecured lines of credit arrangements, public and private offerings of debt and equity securities, proceeds from the sales of real property and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property acquisitions, loan advances and general and administrative expenses. These sources and uses of cash are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are discussed in further detail below.
          The following is a summary of our sources and uses of cash flows (dollars in thousands):
          The increases in net cash provided from operating activities are primarily attributable to increases in net income, excluding the provision for depreciation and net straight-line rental income. Net income and the provision for depreciation increased primarily as a result of net new investments in properties owned by us. See the discussion of investing activities below for additional details. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our net income and provision for depreciation will change accordingly. Net straight-line rental income decreased primarily due to a decrease in gross straight-line rental income and increases in cash payments outside normal monthly rental payments.
Operating Activities.
 
          The following is a summary of our straight-line rent (dollars in thousands):
          Gross straight-line rental income represents the non-cash difference between contractual cash rent due and the average rent recognized pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13 "Accounting for Leases." This amount is positive in the first half of a lease term (but declining every year due to annual increases in cash rent due) and is negative in the second half of a lease term. The decrease in gross straight-line rental income is primarily due to annual increases in cash rent due on leases with fixed increases and our decision in 2004 to change our standard lease structure. Prior to June 2004 our standard lease structure contained fixed annual rental escalators, which were generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period. Beginning in June 2004, our new standard lease structure contains annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant's properties. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded. Instead, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payment due for the period. The increase in non-recurring cash receipts are primarily attributable to cash received in connection with real property sales that resulted in the payoff of existing straight-line receivable balances.
          The changes in net cash used in investing activities are primarily attributable to net changes in loans receivable and real property investments. The following is a summary of our investment and disposition activities (dollars in thousands):
Investing Activities.
          The changes in net cash provided from or used in financing activities are primarily attributable to changes related to our long-term debt, common stock issuances, preferred stock issuances and redemptions, and cash distributions to stockholders.
Financing Activities.
 
          The following is a summary our senior unsecured note issuances (dollars in thousands):
           We repaid $40,000,000 of 8.0% senior unsecured notes upon maturity in April 2004. In May 2005, we redeemed all of our outstanding $50,000,000 8.17% senior unsecured notes due March 2006, we completed a public tender offer for $57,670,000 of our outstanding $100,000,000 7.625% senior unsecured notes due March 2008, and we redeemed $122,500,000 of our outstanding $175,000,000 7.5% senior unsecured notes due August 2007. The increase in principal payments on secured debt during 2005 is primarily due to early extinguishments of outstanding mortgages. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we paid off mortgages with outstanding balances of $72,309,000 and average interest rates of 7.481%.
          The change in common stock is primarily attributable to public and private issuances and common stock issuances related to our dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan ("DRIP"). The remaining difference in common stock issuances is primarily due to issuances pursuant to stock incentive plans.
          The following is a summary our common stock issuances (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
          In July 2003, we closed on a public offering of 4,000,000 shares of 7.875% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, which generated net proceeds of approximately $96,850,000. A portion of the proceeds from this offering were used to redeem all 3,000,000 shares of our 8.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock on July 15, 2003, at a redemption price of $25 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. In September 2004, we closed on a public offering of 7,000,000 shares of 7.625% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, which generated net proceeds of approximately $169,107,000. The proceeds were used to repay borrowings under our unsecured lines of credit arrangements and to invest in additional properties.
          In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (including 100% of capital gains) to our stockholders. The increases in dividends are primarily attributable to increases in outstanding common and preferred stock shares as discussed above and increases in our annual common stock dividend per share.
          The following is a summary of our dividend payments (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
          We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of certain insurance companies that provide workers' compensation insurance to one of our tenants. Our obligation under the letter of credit matures in 2009. At December 31, 2005, our obligation under the letter of credit was $2,450,000.
          We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates, our perception of the future volatility of interest rates and our relative levels of variable rate debt and variable rate investments. As of December 31, 2005, we participated in two interest rate swap agreements related to our long-term debt. Our interest rate swaps are discussed below in "Contractual Obligations."
     
Contractual Obligations
          The following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in thousands):
 
          We have an unsecured credit arrangement with a consortium of ten banks providing for a revolving line of credit ("revolving credit") in the amount of $500,000,000, which expires on June 22, 2008 (with the ability to extend for one year at our discretion if we are in compliance with all covenants). The agreement specifies that borrowings under the revolving credit are subject to interest payable in periods no longer than three months at either the agent bank's prime rate of interest or the applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (5.387% at December 31, 2005). The applicable margin is based on our ratings with Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and was 0.9% at December 31, 2005. In addition, we pay a facility fee annually to each bank based on the bank's commitment under the revolving credit facility. The facility fee depends on our ratings with Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and was 0.225% at December 31, 2005. We also pay an annual agent's fee of $50,000. Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement. We have another unsecured line of credit arrangement with a bank for a total of $40,000,000, which expires May 31, 2006. Borrowings under this line of credit are subject to interest at either the bank's prime rate of interest (7.25% at December 31, 2005) or 1.3% over LIBOR interest rate, at our option. Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement. At December 31, 2005, we had $195,000,000 outstanding under the unsecured lines of credit arrangements and estimated total contractual interest obligations of $26,262,000. Contractual interest obligations are estimated based on the assumption that the balance of $195,000,000 at December 31, 2005 is constant until maturity at interest rates in effect at December 31, 2005.
          We have $1,194,830,000 of senior unsecured notes principal outstanding with fixed annual interest rates ranging from 5.875% to 8.0%, payable semi-annually. Total contractual interest obligations on senior unsecured notes totaled $647,298,000 at December 31, 2005. Additionally, we have mortgage loans totaling $107,540,000, collateralized by owned properties, with fixed annual interest rates ranging from 5.8% to 8.5%, payable monthly.
 
The carrying values of the properties securing the mortgage loans totaled $167,230,000 at December 31, 2005. Total contractual interest obligations on mortgage loans totaled $32,715,000 at December 31, 2005.
          On May 6, 2004, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements (the "Swaps") for a total notional amount of $100,000,000 to hedge changes in fair value attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate of $100,000,000 of fixed rate debt with a maturity date of November 15, 2013. The Swaps are treated as fair-value hedges for accounting purposes and we utilize the short-cut method in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended. The Swaps are with highly rated counterparties in which we receive a fixed rate of 6% and pay a variable rate based on six-month LIBOR plus a spread. At December 31, 2005, total contractual interest obligations were estimated to be $43,200,000.
          At December 31, 2005, we had operating lease obligations of $14,257,000 relating to our office space, five assisted living facilities and three skilled nursing facilities.
          Purchase obligations are comprised of unfunded construction commitments and contingent purchase obligations. At December 31, 2005, we had outstanding construction financings of $3,906,000 for leased properties and were committed to providing additional financing of approximately $36,519,000 to complete construction. At December 31, 2005, we had contingent purchase obligations totaling $44,930,000. These contingent purchase obligations primarily relate to deferred acquisition fundings and capital improvements. Deferred acquisition fundings are contingent upon a tenant satisfying certain conditions in the lease. Upon funding, amounts due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.
     
Capital Structure
          As of December 31, 2005, we had stockholders' equity of $1,430,756,000 and a total outstanding debt balance of $1,500,818,000, which represents a debt to total book capitalization ratio of 51%. Our ratio of debt to market capitalization was 40% at December 31, 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our coverage ratio of EBITDA to interest was 3.08 to 1.00. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our coverage ratio of EBITDA to fixed charges was 2.45 to 1.00. Also, at December 31, 2005, we had $36,237,000 of cash and cash equivalents and $345,000,000 of available borrowing capacity under our unsecured lines of credit arrangements.
          Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements. None of our debt agreements contain provisions for acceleration which could be triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our unsecured lines of credit arrangements, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes are used to determine the fees and interest payable.
          Our senior unsecured notes are rated Baa3 (stable), BBB- (positive) and BBB- (stable) by Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings, respectively. We plan to manage the Company to maintain investment grade status with a capital structure consistent with our current profile. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the noted rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.
          As of April 30, 2006, we had an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission under which we may issue up to $321,344,619 of securities including debt securities, common and preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and units. Also, as of April 30, 2006, we had an effective registration statement on file in connection with our enhanced DRIP program under which we may issue up to 6,314,213 shares of common stock. As of April 30, 2006, 2,486,942 shares of common stock remained available for issuance under this registration statement. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate issuing securities under our registration statements to invest in additional properties and to repay borrowings under our unsecured lines of credit arrangements.
 
Results of Operations
          Net income available to common stockholders decreased 14% from 2004 and 11% from 2003 primarily due to the losses on extinguishment of debt totaling $21,484,000, or $0.39 per diluted share, and increases in interest expense, provision for depreciation and preferred stock dividends, offset by increases in rental income. Net income available to common stockholders increased 3% from 2003 to 2004 due to an increase in rental income offset by increases in interest expense and provision for depreciation. These changes are discussed in further detail below. Net income available to common stockholders decreased on a per share basis during 2005 due to the lower net income available to common stockholders discussed above and higher outstanding shares. Net income available to common stockholders decreased on a per share basis during 2004 primarily due to higher outstanding shares. On a fully diluted basis, average common shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2005 was 54,499,000, a 5% increase from 52,082,000 for the same period in 2004 and an 18% increase from 44,201,000 for the same period in 2003. The increase in fully diluted average common shares outstanding is primarily the result of public and private common stock offerings and common stock issuances pursuant to our DRIP.
          The following table represents the changes in outstanding common stock for the period from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2005 (in thousands):
          The decrease in FFO for the year ended December 31, 2005 is primarily due to the losses on extinguishment of debt. The increase in FFO for the year ended December 31, 2004 is primarily due to the increase in net income available to common stockholders. The increases in FAD are primarily due to the changes in net straight-line rental income offset by the losses on extinguishment of debt. Please refer to the discussion of "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below for further information regarding FFO and FAD and for reconciliations of FFO and FAD to NICS.
          The increases in EBITDA are primarily due to increases in net income, excluding interest expense and provision for depreciation. Our coverage ratio of EBITDA to total interest was 3.10 times for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared with 3.24 times for the same period in 2004 and 3.50 times for the same period in 2003. Our coverage ratio of EBITDA to fixed charges was 2.47 times for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared with 2.77 times for the same period in 2004 and 3.01 times for the same period in 2003. Our coverage ratios declined from the prior years primarily due to the losses on extinguishment of debt and increases in interest expense. Please refer to the discussion of "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below for further information regarding EBITDA and a reconciliation of EBITDA and net income.
          Revenues were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):
 
          The increase in gross revenues is primarily attributable to increased rental income resulting from the acquisitions of new properties from which we receive rent. See the discussion of investing activities in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" above for further information. In addition, as discussed above, prior to June 2004, our standard lease structure contained fixed annual rental escalators, which were generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the minimum lease period. Beginning in June 2004, our new standard lease structure contains annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant's properties. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. While this change does not affect our cash flow or our ability to pay dividends, it is anticipated that we will generate additional organic growth and minimize non-cash straight-line rent over time. If gross operating revenues at our facilities and/or the Consumer Price Index do not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to increase. Sales of real property would offset revenue increases and, to the extent that they exceed new acquisitions, could result in decreased revenues. Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income. As of December 31, 2005, we had no leases expiring prior to 2009 with the exception of our master lease with Commonwealth Communities Holdings LLC. In October 2005, Kindred Healthcare, Inc. ("Kindred") announced its intent to acquire Commonwealth. As part of this transaction, which closed on February 28, 2006, we leased the Commonwealth facilities to Kindred under two master leases.
          Interest income increased in 2005 primarily due to recognition of additional interest income of approximately $4,509,000 offset by loan payoffs. The additional interest income related to the payoffs of loans that were either on non-accrual or partial accrual and all contractual interest was received from the borrowers. Transaction fees and other income fluctuated primarily due to $822,000 of extinguishment recoveries, $750,000 in termination fees as well as additional fees from loan payoffs recognized during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease from 2003 to 2004 is primarily due to the $902,000 gain from the sale of our investment in Atlantic Healthcare Finance L.P. in October 2003.
          Expenses were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):
     The increase in total expenses is primarily attributable to increases in interest expense, the provision for depreciation and the recognition of losses on extinguishment of debt. The increases in interest expense are primarily due to higher average borrowings and changes in the amount of capitalized interest offsetting interest expense. This was partially offset by lower average interest rates and savings generated from interest rate swap agreements. If we borrow under our unsecured lines of credit arrangements, issue additional senior unsecured notes or assume additional secured debt, our interest expense will increase.
 
     The following is a summary of our interest expense (dollars in thousands):
     The increase in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to the net effect and timing of issuances and extinguishments. See the discussion of financing activities in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" above for further information.
     The following is a summary of our senior unsecured notes principal activity (dollars in thousands):
     The increase in interest expense on secured debt is due to the net effect and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our secured debt activity (dollars in thousands):
     The increase in interest expense on unsecured lines of credit arrangements is due primarily to higher average outstanding borrowings. The following is a summary of our unsecured lines of credit arrangements (dollars in thousands):
     We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used to finance the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the borrowings outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. Capitalized interest for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 totaled $1,535,000, $875,000 and $665,000, respectively.
     On May 6, 2004, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements (the "Swaps") for a total notional amount of $100,000,000 to hedge changes in fair value attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate of $100,000,000 of fixed rate debt with a maturity date of November 15, 2013. We receive a fixed rate of 6.0% and pay a variable rate based on six-month LIBOR plus a spread. For the years ended December 31, 2005, and 2004, we generated $972,000 and $1,770,000, respectively, of savings related to our Swaps that was recorded as a reduction of interest expense. We had no interest rate swap agreements outstanding during 2003.
 
     The provision for depreciation increased primarily as a result of additional investments in properties owned directly by us. See the discussion of investing activities in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" above for further information. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our provision for depreciation will change accordingly.
     General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues (including revenues from discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2005, were 5.89% as compared with 6.54% and 5.55% for the same periods in 2004 and 2003, respectively. The change from 2004 to 2005 is due to increased costs to attract and retain appropriate personnel to achieve our business objectives offset by a decrease in professional service fees and other operating costs as a result of focused expense control. Approximately one-half of the increases from 2003 to 2004 were related to costs associated with our initiatives to attract and retain appropriate personnel to achieve our business objectives. The remainder was comprised of increases relating to professional services fees (including costs associated with SOX compliance), taxes and transition costs associated with the removal of an underperforming operator in December 2004.
     The change in loan expense was primarily due to increased costs in 2003 and 2004 related to amending our primary unsecured line of credit arrangement, costs related to obtaining consents to modify the covenants under our senior unsecured notes and costs related to the issuance of senior unsecured notes.
     During the year ended December 31, 2004, it was determined that the projected undiscounted cash flows from a property did not exceed its related net book value and an impairment charge of $314,000 was recorded to reduce the property to its estimated fair market value. The estimated fair market value of the property was determined by an independent appraisal. During the year ended December 31, 2003, it was determined that the projected undiscounted cash flows from a property did not exceed its related net book value and an impairment charge of $2,792,000 was recorded to reduce the property to its estimated fair market value. The estimated fair market value of the property was determined by an independent appraisal.
     The provision for loan losses is related to our critical accounting estimate for the allowance for loan losses and is discussed below in "Critical Accounting Policies."
     Other items were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):
     During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, we sold properties with carrying values of $61,316,000, $37,710,000 and $88,098,000 for net gains of $4,139,000, net losses of $143,000 and net gains of $3,227,000, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2006, we sold properties with carrying values of $15,393,000 for a net gain of $1,553,000. Also, at March 31, 2006, three assisted living facilities and one skilled nursing facility were classified as held for sale. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, we have reclassified the income and expenses attributable to the properties held for sale at March 31, 2006 or sold subsequent to January 1, 2002 to discontinued operations. These properties generated $7,865,000, $4,396,000 and $2,932,000 of income after deducting depreciation and interest expense from rental revenue for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Please refer to Note 15 of our audited consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 for further discussion.
 
     The increase in preferred dividends is primarily due to the increase in average outstanding preferred shares. The following is a summary of our preferred stock activity:
     In July 2003, we closed a public offering of 4,000,000 shares of 7.875% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. A portion of the proceeds from this offering were used to redeem all 3,000,000 shares of our 8.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock on July 15, 2003. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Topic D-42, the costs to issue these securities were recorded as a non-cash, non-recurring charge of $2,790,000, or $0.06 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2003 to reduce net income available to common stockholders. No such transactions or charges occurred in 2004 or 2005.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     We believe that net income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, we consider FFO and FAD to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FAD represents FFO excluding the non-cash straight-line rental adjustments. Additionally, our historical results include an adjustment for a preferred stock redemption charge for the year ended December 31, 2003 but exclude adjustments for impairment charges.
     In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 145 that requires gains and losses on extinguishment of debt to be classified as income or loss from continuing operations rather than as extraordinary items as previously required under Statement No. 4. We adopted the standard effective January 1, 2003 and have properly reflected the $21,484,000, or $0.39 per diluted share, of losses on extinguishment of debt for the year ended December 31, 2005. These charges have not been added back for the calculations of FFO, FAD or EBITDA.
     In August 2003, we adopted the SEC clarification of EITF Topic D-42. To implement the clarified accounting pronouncement, our 2003 results reflect a reduction in net income available to common stockholders resulting from a non-cash, non-recurring charge of $2,790,000, or $0.06 per diluted share, due to the redemption of our 8.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock in July 2003. NAREIT has issued its recommendation that preferred stock redemption charges should not be added back to net income in the calculation of FFO and FAD. Although we have adopted this recommendation, we have also disclosed FFO and FAD adjusted for the preferred stock redemption charge for enhanced clarity. Additionally, we believe that the nature of the charge is non-recurring because there was not a similar charge during the two preceding years and we do not anticipate a similar charge in the succeeding two years.
     In October 2003, NAREIT informed its member companies that the SEC had changed its position on certain aspects of the NAREIT FFO definition, including impairment charges. Previously, the SEC accepted NAREIT's view that impairment charges were effectively an early recognition of an expected loss on an impending sale of property and thus should be added back to net income in the calculation of FFO and FAD similar to other gains and losses on sales. However, the SEC's clarified interpretation is that recurring impairments taken on real property may not be added back to net income in the calculation of FFO and FAD. We have adopted this interpretation and have not added back impairment charges of $2,792,000, or $0.06 per diluted share, recorded for the year ended December 31, 2003 and $314,000, or $0.01 per diluted share, recorded for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
     EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Additionally, we exclude the non-cash provision for loan losses in calculating EBITDA. We believe that EBITDA, along with net income and cash flow provided from operating activities, is an important supplemental measure because it provides additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. Additionally, restrictive covenants in our long-term debt arrangements contain financial ratios based on EBITDA. We primarily utilize EBITDA to measure our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest and preferred dividends.
     FFO, FAD and EBITDA are financial measures that are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment recommendations and rating of companies. Management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results, in making operating decisions and for budget planning purposes. Additionally, FFO and FAD are internal evaluation metrics utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. FFO, FAD and EBITDA do not represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, FFO, FAD and EBITDA, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies.
     The table below reflects the reconciliation of FFO to net income available to common stockholders, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. The provision for depreciation includes provision for depreciation from discontinued operations. Amounts are in thousands except for per share data.
 
     The table below reflects the reconciliation of FAD to net income available to common stockholders, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. The provision for depreciation includes provision for depreciation from discontinued operations. Amounts are in thousands except for per share data.
 
     The table below reflects the reconciliation of EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. The provision for depreciation and interest expense includes provision for depreciation and interest expense from discontinued operations. Amortization includes amortization of deferred loan expenses, restricted stock and stock options. Dollars are in thousands.
Critical Accounting Policies
     Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions. Management considers an accounting estimate or assumption critical if:
     Management has discussed the development and selection of its critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented below relating to them. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are appropriate and are not reasonably likely to change in the future. However, since these estimates require assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, they bear the risk of change. If actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. Please refer to Note 1 of our audited consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact us. There were no material changes to these policies in 2005.
     We adopted the fair value-based method of accounting for share-based payments effective January 1, 2003 using the prospective method described in FASB Statement No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure. Because Statement 123(R) must be applied not only to new awards but to previously granted awards that are not fully vested on the effective date of Statement 123(R), and because we adopted Statement 123 using the prospective transition method (which applied only to awards granted, modified or settled after the adoption date of Statement 123), compensation cost for some previously granted awards that were not recognized under Statement 123 will be recognized under Statement 123(R). Additionally, we amortize compensation cost for share based payments to the date that the awards become fully vested or to the expected
 
retirement date, if sooner. Effective with the adoption of Statement 123(R) on January 1, 2006, we will begin recognizing compensation cost to the date the awards become fully vested or to the retirement eligible date, if sooner. Had we adopted Statement 123(R) in prior periods, the impact of that standard would have approximated the impact of Statement 123 as described in the disclosure of pro forma net income and earnings per share in Note 9 to our audited consolidated financial statements. We expect that the adoption of Statement 123(R) will increase compensation cost by approximately $1,287,000 for 2006 as a result of amortizing share based awards to the retirement eligible date.
     The following table presents information about our critical accounting policies, as well as the material assumptions used to develop each estimate:
 
Impact of Inflation
     During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation rate. Additionally, our earnings are primarily long-term investments with fixed rates of return. These investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured notes and borrowings under our unsecured lines of credit arrangements. During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest rates, our ability to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs. Presuming the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not increase significantly, we believe that inflation will not impact the availability of equity and debt financing for us.
 
Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Stockholders and Directors Health Care REIT, Inc.
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Health Care REIT, Inc. as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2) of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedules based on our audits.
     We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Health Care REIT, Inc. at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
     We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Health Care REIT, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 22, 2006 (not provided herein) expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Toledo, Ohio February 22, 2006 except for Note 15, as to which the date is May 9, 2006
 
 
 
     
 
 
1. Accounting Policies and Related Matters
Industry
     We are a self-administered, equity real estate investment trust that invests in health care and senior housing properties, which primarily include skilled nursing facilities, independent living/continuing care retirement communities, assisted living facilities and specialty care facilities.
Principles of Consolidation
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and our wholly owned subsidiaries after the elimination of all significant intercompany accounts and transactions.
Use of Estimates
     The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
     Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Loans Receivable
     Loans receivable consist of mortgage loans, construction loans and working capital loans. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectibility risks. The mortgage loans and construction loans are primarily collateralized by a first or second mortgage lien or leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership interest in, the related facilities. Working capital loans are generally either unsecured or secured by the operator's leasehold rights, corporate guaranties and/or personal guaranties.
Allowance for Loan Losses
     The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including general economic conditions and estimated collectibility of loan payments. We evaluate the collectibility of our loans receivable based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of the underlying collateral. If such factors indicate that there is greater risk of loan charge-offs, additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the contractual terms of the original loan agreement. Consistent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. At December 31, 2005, we had loans with outstanding balances of $16,770,000 on non-accrual status ($35,918,000 at December 31, 2004). To the extent circumstances improve and the risk of collectibility is diminished, we will return these loans to full accrual status. While a loan is on non-accrual status, any cash receipts are applied against the outstanding balance.
Real Property Owned
     The cost of our real property is allocated to land, buildings, improvements and intangibles in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations. The allocation of the acquisition costs of properties is based on appraisals commissioned from independent real estate appraisal firms. Substantially
 
all of the properties owned by us are leased under operating leases and are recorded at cost. These properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for improvements. The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to determine if facts and circumstances suggest that the assets may be impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider external factors relating to each asset. If these external factors and the projected undiscounted cash flows of the asset over the remaining depreciation period indicate that the asset will not be recoverable, the carrying value may be reduced to the estimated fair market value. The leases generally extend for a minimum seven-year period and provide for payment of all taxes, insurance and maintenance by the tenants. Prior to June 2004, our standard lease structure contained fixed annual rental escalators, which are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the minimum lease period subject to an evaluation of collectibility risks. This income is greater than the amount of cash received during the first half of the lease term. Beginning in June 2004, our new standard lease structure contains annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenants' properties. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. We recognized $4,274,000 and $922,500 of contingent rental income for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We did not recognize any contingent rental income for the year ended December 31, 2003.
     
Capitalization of Construction Period Interest
          We capitalize interest costs associated with funds used to finance the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest which approximates our cost of financing. We capitalized interest costs of $665,000, $875,000, and $1,535,000, during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to construction of real property owned by us. Our interest expense reflected in the consolidated statements of income has been reduced by the amounts capitalized.
     
Deferred Loan Expenses
          Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection with the issuance and amendments of short-term and long-term debt. We amortize these costs over the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the interest yield method.
     
Equity Investments
          We had an investment in Atlantic Healthcare Finance L.P., a property group that specializes in the financing, through sale and leaseback transactions, of nursing and care homes located in the United Kingdom. This investment was accounted for using the equity method of accounting because we had the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee due to our 31% ownership interest. In October 2003, we sold our investment in Atlantic Healthcare Finance L.P. generating a net gain of $902,000.
          Other equity investments, which consist of investments in private and public companies for which we do not have the ability to exercise influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method of accounting, investments in private companies are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, distributions of earnings and additional investments. For investments in public companies that have readily determinable fair market values, we classify our equity investments as available-for-sale and, accordingly, record these investments at their fair market values with unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of stockholders' equity. These investments represent a minimal ownership interest in these companies.
 
Foreign Currency Translation
          For fiscal year 2003, the functional currency of our investment in Atlantic Healthcare Finance L.P. was the local currency. The income and expenses of the entity were translated into U.S. dollars using the average exchange rates for the reporting period to derive our equity earnings. Translation adjustments were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of stockholders' equity. As noted above, we sold this investment in October 2003.
     
Transaction Fees
          Transaction fees are earned by us for our agreement to provide direct and standby financing to, and credit enhancement for, owners and operators of health care and senior housing properties. We amortize transaction fees over the initial fixed term of the lease, the loan or the construction period related to such investments.
     
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
          Accumulated other comprehensive income includes unrealized gains or losses on our equity investments and foreign currency translation adjustments. Accumulated unrealized gains and losses totaled $0, $1,000 and $1,000 at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and is included as a component of stockholders' equity.
     
Fair Value of Derivative Instruments
          We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates.
          In June 2000, the FASB issued Statement No. 138, Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities, which amends Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Statement No. 133, as amended, requires companies to record derivatives at fair market value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.
          On May 6, 2004, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements (the "Swaps") for a total notional amount of $100,000,000 to hedge changes in fair value attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate of $100,000,000 of fixed rate debt with a maturity date of November 15, 2013. The Swaps are treated as fair-value hedges for accounting purposes and we utilize the short-cut method in accordance with Statement No. 133, as amended. The Swaps are with highly rated counterparties in which we receive a fixed rate of 6.0% and pay a variable rate based on six-month LIBOR plus a spread. The hedging arrangement is considered highly effective and, as such, changes in the Swaps' fair values exactly offset the corresponding changes in the fair value of senior unsecured notes and, as a result, the changes in fair value do not result in an impact on net income. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Swaps were reported at their fair value of $2,211,000 and $4,206,000, respectively, in other assets with an offsetting adjustment to the underlying senior unsecured notes. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, we generated $972,000 and $1,770,000, respectively, of savings related to the Swaps that was recorded as a reduction in interest expense. We had no interest rate swap agreements outstanding at December 31, 2003.
          The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair values for our derivatives are estimated by a third party consultant, which utilizes pricing models that consider forward yield curves and discount rates. Such amounts and the recognition of such amounts are subject to significant estimates that may change in the future.
 
     
Net Income Per Share
          Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the period adjusted for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings per share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that the number of shares is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.
     
Federal Income Tax
          No provision has been made for federal income taxes since we have elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and we believe that we have met the requirements for qualification as such for each taxable year. See Note 11.
     
New Accounting Standards
          We adopted the fair value-based method of accounting for share-based payments effective January 1, 2003 using the prospective method described in FASB Statement No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure. Currently, we use the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to estimate the value of stock option grants and expect to continue to use this acceptable option valuation model upon the required adoption of Statement of 123(R) on January 1, 2006. Because Statement 123(R) must be applied not only to new awards but to previously granted awards that are not fully vested on the effective date of Statement 123(R), and because we adopted Statement 123 using the prospective transition method (which applied only to awards granted, modified or settled after the adoption date of Statement 123), compensation cost for some previously granted awards that were not recognized under Statement 123 will be recognized under Statement 123(R). Additionally, we amortize compensation cost for share based payments to the date that the awards become fully vested or to the expected retirement date, if sooner. Effective with the adoption of Statement 123(R), we will begin recognizing compensation cost to the date the awards become fully vested or to the retirement eligible date, if sooner. Had we adopted Statement 123(R) in prior periods, the impact of that standard would have approximated the impact of Statement 123 as described in the disclosure of pro forma net income and earnings per share in Note 9. We expect that the adoption of Statement 123(R) will increase compensation cost by approximately $1,287,000 for 2006 as a result of amortizing share based awards to the retirement eligible date.
     
Reclassifications
          Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform with the current year presentation.
2. Loans Receivable
     The following is a summary of loans receivable (in thousands):
          Loans to related parties (an entity whose ownership included one Company director) that existed in prior years were at rates comparable to loans to other third-party borrowers and were equal to or greater than our net interest cost on borrowings to support such loans. There were no such loans outstanding during 2005. The amount of interest income and commitment fees from related parties amounted to $0, $682,000 and $36,000 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
          The following is a summary of mortgage loans at December 31, 2005:
3. Allowance for Loan Losses
     The following is a summary of the allowance for loan losses (in thousands):
     The following is a summary of our loan impairments (in thousands):
     Interest income recognized on non-accrual loans was $2,391,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. We did not recognize any interest on non-accrual loans for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003.
 
4. Real Property Owned
     The following table summarizes certain information about our real property owned as of December 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     At December 31, 2005, future minimum lease payments receivable under operating leases are as follows (in thousands):
     We purchased $3,908,000, $8,500,000 and $12,433,000 of real property that had previously been financed by the Company with loans in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We converted $29,238,000 of completed construction projects into operating lease properties in 2005. We acquired properties which included the assumption of mortgages totaling $22,309,000, $14,555,000 and $101,243,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We issued $26,050,000 of preferred stock relating to acquisitions in 2003. Certain of our 2005 acquisitions included deferred acquisition payments totaling $18,125,000. These non-cash activities are appropriately not reflected in the accompanying statements of cash flows.
     During the year ended December 31, 2004, it was determined that the projected undiscounted cash flows from a property did not exceed its related net book value and an impairment charge of $314,000 was recorded to reduce the property to its estimated fair market value. The estimated fair market value was determined by an offer to purchase received from a third party. During the year ended December 31, 2003, it was determined that the projected undiscounted cash flows from a property did not exceed its related net book value and an impairment charge of $2,792,000 was recorded to reduce the property to its estimated fair market value. The estimated fair market value of the property was determined by an independent appraisal. We did not record any impairment charges during the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
     At December 31, 2005, we had $11,912,000 related to assets held for sale. See Note 15 for further discussion of discontinued operations.
5. Concentration of Risk
     As of December 31, 2005, long-term care facilities, which include skilled nursing, independent living/continuing care retirement communities and assisted living facilities, comprised 93% (93% at December 31, 2004) of our real estate investments and were located in 36 states. The following table summarizes certain information about our operator concentration as of December 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
6. Borrowings Under Lines of Credit Arrangements and Related Items
     We have an unsecured credit arrangement with a consortium of ten banks providing for a revolving line of credit ("revolving credit") in the amount of $500,000,000, which expires on June 22, 2008 (with the ability to extend for one year at our discretion if we are in compliance with all covenants). The agreement specifies that borrowings under the revolving credit are subject to interest payable in periods no longer than three months at either the agent bank's prime rate of interest or the applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (5.387% at December 31, 2005). The applicable margin is based on our ratings with Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and was 0.9% at December 31, 2005. In addition, we pay a facility fee annually to each bank based on the bank's commitment under the revolving credit facility. The facility fee depends on our ratings with Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and was 0.225% at December 31, 2005. We also pay an annual agent's fee of $50,000. Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement. We have another unsecured line of credit arrangement with a bank for a total of $40,000,000, which expires May 31, 2006. Borrowings under this line of credit are subject to interest at either the bank's prime rate of interest (7.25% at December 31, 2005) or 1.3% over LIBOR interest rate, at our option. Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement.
     The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the unsecured lines of credit arrangements (dollars in thousands):
7. Senior Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt
     We have $1,198,278,000 of senior unsecured notes with annual interest rates ranging from 5.88% to 8.00%. The carrying amounts of the senior unsecured notes represent the par value of $1,194,830,000 adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts and other basis adjustments related to hedging the debt with derivative instruments. See Note 1 for further discussion regarding derivative instruments.
     We have mortgage loans totaling $107,540,000, collateralized by owned properties with annual interest rates ranging from 5.80% to 8.50%. The carrying values of the properties securing the mortgage loans totaled $167,230,000 at December 31, 2005.
     Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions.
     At December 31, 2005, the annual principal payments on these long-term obligations are as follows (in thousands):
 
8. Stock Incentive Plans
     Our 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan authorizes up to 2,200,000 shares of common stock to be issued at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The 2005 Plan replaced the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan and the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors. The options granted to officers and key employees under the 1995 Plan continue to vest through 2015 and expire ten years from the date of grant. Our non-employee directors, officers and key employees are eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan. The 2005 Plan allows for the issuance of, among other things, stock options, restricted stock, deferred stock units and dividend equivalent rights. There were no dividend equivalent rights outstanding under the 1995 Plan for 2003.
     The following summarizes the activity in the plans (shares in thousands):
     Vesting periods for options and restricted shares range from three years for directors to five years for officers and key employees. Options expire ten years from the date of grant. We granted 85,000, 112,000 and 110,000 restricted shares during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, including 16,000, 10,000 and 12,000 shares to non-employee directors in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Expense, which is recognized as the shares vest based on the market value at the date of the award, totaled $2,948,000, $2,887,000 and $2,157,000, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2005 (options in thousands):
9. Other Equity
     Other equity consists of the following (in thousands):
 
     Unamortized restricted stock represents the unamortized value of restricted stock granted to employees and non-employee directors prior to January 1, 2003. Expense related to these grants, which is recognized as the shares vest based on the market value at the date of the award, totaled $728,000, $949,000 and $1,182,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
     In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure, which we are required to adopt for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2002, with transition provisions for certain matters. Statement 148 amends FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value-based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation. In addition, Statement 148 amends the disclosure requirements of Statement 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. Effective January 1, 2003, we commenced recognizing compensation expense in accordance with Statement 123 on a prospective basis. Accumulated compensation expense related to stock options represents the amount of amortized compensation costs related to stock options awarded to employees and directors subsequent to January 1, 2003.
     The following table illustrates the effect on net income available to common stockholders if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of Statement 123 to stock-based compensation for options granted since 1995 but prior to adoption at January 1, 2003 (in thousands, except per share data):
     The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:
 
 
10. Preferred Stock
     In July 2003, we closed a public offering of 4,000,000 shares of 7.875% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, on or after July 9, 2008. A portion of the proceeds from this offering were used to redeem all 3,000,000 shares of our 8.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock on July 15, 2003, at a redemption price of $25.00 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Topic D-42, the costs to issue the Series B Preferred Stock were recorded as a non-cash, non-recurring charge of $2,790,000, or $0.06 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2003 to reduce net income available to common stockholders.
     In September 2003, we issued 1,060,000 shares of 6% Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock as partial consideration for an acquisition of assets by the Company, with the shares valued at $26,500,000 for such purposes. The shares were issued to Southern Assisted Living, Inc. and certain of its stockholders without registration in reliance upon the federal statutory exemption of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, on or after August 15, 2008. The preferred shares are convertible into common stock at a conversion price of $32.66 per share at any time. During the year ended December 31, 2005, certain holders of our Series E Preferred Stock converted 275,056 shares into 210,541 shares of our common stock, leaving 74,989 of such shares outstanding at December 31, 2005.
     In September 2004, we closed a public offering of 7,000,000 shares of 7.625% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, on or after September 14, 2009.
11. Income Taxes and Distributions
     To qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, 90% of taxable income (including 100% of capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders. Real estate investment trusts that do not distribute a certain amount of current year taxable income in the current year are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The principal differences between undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and financial statement purposes are the recognition of straight-line rent for reporting purposes, differing useful lives and depreciation methods for real property and the provision for loan losses for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes.
     Cash distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as follows:
12. Commitments and Contingencies
     We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of certain insurance companies that provide workers' compensation insurance to one of our tenants. Our obligation under the letter of credit matures in 2009. At December 31, 2005, our obligation under the letter of credit was $2,450,000.
 
     At December 31, 2005, we had outstanding construction financings of $3,906,000 for leased properties and were committed to providing additional financing of approximately $36,519,000 to complete construction. At December 31, 2005, we had contingent purchase obligations totaling $44,930,000. These contingent purchase obligations primarily relate to deferred acquisition fundings and capital improvements. Deferred acquisition fundings are contingent upon an operator satisfying certain conditions such as payment coverage and value tests. Amounts due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.
     At December 31, 2005, we had operating lease obligations of $14,257,000 relating to Company office space, six assisted living facilities and three skilled nursing facilities. We incurred rental expense relating to our Company office space of $283,000, $292,000 and $348,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Regarding the facility leases, we have sublease agreements with certain of our operators that require the operators to reimburse us for our monthly operating lease obligations. At December 31, 2005, aggregate future minimum rentals to be received under these noncancelable subleases totaled $14,185,000.
     At December 31, 2005, future minimum lease payments due under operating leases are as follows (in thousands):
13. Earnings Per Share
     The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):
     The diluted earnings per share calculation excludes the dilutive effect of 112,000, 112,000 and 0 options for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, because the exercise price was greater than the average market price. The Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock was not included in the calculations for 2003 as the effect of the conversions was anti-dilutive. The Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock was not included in the calculations for 2005, 2004 and 2003 as the effect of the conversions was anti-dilutive.
14. Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
     The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value.
 
      The fair value of all mortgage loans receivable is estimated by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities.
Mortgage Loans Receivable
      The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value based on the interest rates received, which approximates current market rates.
Working Capital Loans and Construction Loans
      The carrying amount approximates fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
      Equity investments are recorded at their fair market value.
Equity Investments
      The carrying amount of the lines of credit arrangements approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.
Borrowings Under Lines of Credit Arrangements
      The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable was estimated by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current borrowing rate available to the Company for similar debt.
Senior Unsecured Notes
      Mortgage loans payable is a reasonable estimate of fair value based on the interest rates paid, which approximates current market rates.
Mortgage Loans Payable
      Our interest rate swap agreements are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair market value. Fair market value is estimated by a third party consultant, which utilizes pricing models that consider forward yield curves and discount rates.
Interest Rate Swap Agreements
     The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as follows (in thousands):
15. Discontinued Operations
     In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We adopted the standard effective January 1, 2002.
 
     During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, we sold properties with carrying values of $61,316,000, $37,710,000 and $88,098,000 for net gains of $4,139,000, net losses of $143,000, and net gains of $3,227,000, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2006, we sold properties with carrying values of $15,393,000 for a net gain of $1,553,000. Also, at March 31, 2006, three assisted living facilities and one skilled nursing facility were classified as held for sale. In accordance with Statement No. 144, we have reclassified the income and expenses attributable to these properties to discontinued operations. Expenses include an allocation of interest expense based on property carrying values and our weighted average cost of debt. The following illustrates the reclassification impact of Statement No. 144 as a result of classifying the properties as discontinued operations (in thousands):
16. Retirement Arrangements
     We have a Retirement Plan and Trust (the "401(k) Plan") covering all eligible employees. Under the 401(k) Plan, eligible employees may make contributions, and we may make matching contributions and a profit sharing contribution. Our contributions to this 401(k) Plan totaled $337,000, $289,000 and $206,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
     We have a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP"), a non-qualified defined benefit pension plan, which provides certain executive officers with supplemental deferred retirement benefits. The SERP provides an opportunity for participants to receive retirement benefits that cannot be paid under our tax-qualified plans because of the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Benefits are based on compensation and length of service and the SERP is unfunded. No contributions by the Company are anticipated for the 2005 fiscal year. No benefit payments are expected to occur during the next five fiscal years and total $778,000 during the succeeding five fiscal years. We use a December 31 measurement date for the SERP. The accrued liability on our balance sheet for the SERP was $1,032,000 at December 31, 2005 ($703,000 at December 31, 2004).
     The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in the SERP's benefit obligations and a statement of the funded status for the periods indicated (in thousands):
     The following table shows the components of net periodic benefit costs for the periods indicated (in thousands):
 
     The following table provides information for the SERP, which has an accumulated benefit in excess of plan assets (in thousands):
     The following table reflects the weighted-average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost for the SERP:
17. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)
     The following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


