FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20060207172443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 7, 2006, Health Care REIT, Inc. issued a press release that announced operating results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. The press release is posted on the Company's Web site (www.hcreit.com) under the heading Press Releases. A copy of the press release has been furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
None.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
None.
(c) Exhibits.
99.1 Press release dated February 7, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Its: Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Dated: February 7, 2006

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Toledo, Ohio, February 7, 2006........announced today operating results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005.
Health Care REIT, Inc. (NYSE:HCN)
"We enjoyed a record year with $642.5 million of gross investments," commented George L. Chapman, chief executive officer of Health Care REIT, Inc. "In addition, we generated strong FAD growth of 19% and realized improved facility payment coverages. We successfully executed our plan to enhance the overall portfolio and quality of earnings by disposing of approximately $147 million of non-core assets, reducing loans to 6% of gross real estate investments and virtually eliminating subdebt. Our dispositions resulted in the recognition of an additional $4.5 million of interest income. Based on our strengthened portfolio and FFO and FAD growth prospects, the Board of Directors approved a 3% increase in the common stock dividend to $0.64 per quarter commencing with the May 2006 dividend."
Key Performance Indicators
.
 
The fourth quarter 2005 reported net income of $0.47 per diluted share includes $2.2 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, of losses on extinguishment of debt, net of $0.8 million of fees collected in connection with the extinguishments. Fourth quarter 2005 earnings were positively impacted by the recognition of $4.2 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, of additional interest income as a result of loans that were repaid during the quarter. These loans were either on non-accrual or partial accrual and all contractual interest was received from the borrowers. Fourth quarter 2005 adjusted FAD was higher than FFO due to the inclusion of $4.9 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, of cash receipts in excess of rental income, which includes non-recurring cash rental payments of $7.8 million, or $0.14 per diluted share. The following table reconciles the FFO and FAD adjustments:
4Q05 Earnings Discussion
.
Page 1 of 16
 
4Q05 FFO and FAD Reconciliation
.
Reported fiscal 2005 net income of $1.15 per diluted share includes $20.7 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, of losses on extinguishment of debt, which is net of $0.8 million of fees collected in connection with the extinguishments. Additionally, 2005 earnings were positively impacted by the recognition of $4.5 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, of additional interest income as a result of loans that were repaid during the year. Fiscal 2005 adjusted FAD was higher than FFO due to the inclusion of $0.7 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, of cash receipts in excess of rental income, which includes non-recurring cash rental payments of $13.9 million, or $0.25 per diluted share. The following table reconciles the FFO and FAD adjustments:
2005 Earnings Discussion
.
2005 FFO and FAD Reconciliation
.
As previously announced, the Board of Directors declared a dividend for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 of $0.62 per share as compared to $0.60 per share for the same period in 2004. The dividend represents the 139 consecutive dividend payment. The dividend will be payable February 21, 2006 to stockholders of record on January 31, 2006.
Dividends for Fourth Quarter 2005
.
th
The Board of Directors approved a new quarterly dividend rate of $0.64 per share per quarter ($2.56 per share annually), commencing with the May 2006 dividend, up 3% from $0.62 per share, the rate during 2005. The company's dividend policy is reviewed annually during the Board of Directors' January planning session. The declaration and payment of quarterly dividends remains subject to the review and approval of the Board of Directors.
Dividends for 2006
.
The company previously announced its anticipated sale of four long-term acute care hospitals to Kindred Healthcare, Inc. for $80 million. The company now anticipates Kindred will lease these facilities under a master lease. The terms of the master lease are being negotiated. The transaction between Kindred and Commonwealth is anticipated to occur this quarter.
Kindred / Commonwealth Update
.
Page 2 of 16
 
The company is introducing its 2006 guidance and expects to report net income available to common stockholders for the full year in the range of $1.28 to $1.36 per diluted share, FFO in a range of $2.88 to $2.96 per diluted share and FAD in a range of $2.77 to $2.85 per diluted share. In preparing guidance, the company made the following assumptions:
Outlook for 2006
.
The guidance for 2006 FFO is below 2005 FFO primarily as a result of the $4.5 million of non-recurring 2005 interest income, a $3.8 to $4.8 million increase in G&A expenses, and an approximate $4.5 million reduction in rent and interest as a result of the Kindred/Commonwealth transaction, representing a decrease of $0.21 to $0.22 per diluted share.
The company's guidance excludes any impairments, unanticipated additions to the loan loss reserve or other additional one-time items. Please see Exhibit 15 for a reconciliation of the outlook for net income to FFO and FAD.
The company believes that net income, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, the company considers funds from operations (FFO) and funds available for distribution (FAD) to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In
Supplemental Reporting Measures
.
Page 3 of 16
 
response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FAD represents FFO excluding the non-cash straight-line rental adjustments.
EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Additionally, the company excludes the non-cash provision for loan losses. The company believes that EBITDA, along with net income and cash flow provided from operating activities, is an important supplemental measure because it provides additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of its operations. Additionally, restrictive covenants in the company's long-term debt arrangements contain financial ratios based on EBITDA. The company primarily utilizes EBITDA to measure its interest coverage ratio which represents EBITDA divided by interest expense.
In October 2003, NAREIT informed its member companies that the SEC had changed its position on certain aspects of the NAREIT FFO definition, including impairment charges. Previously, the SEC accepted NAREIT's view that impairment charges were effectively an early recognition of an expected loss on an impending sale of property and thus should be excluded from FFO similar to other gains and losses on sales. However, the SEC's clarified interpretation is that recurring impairments taken on real property may not be added back to net income in the calculation of FFO and FAD. Although the company has adopted this recommendation, it has also disclosed FFO and FAD adjusted for the impairment charge in 2004 for enhanced clarity.
In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 145 that requires gains and losses on extinguishments of debt to be classified as income or loss from continuing operations rather than as extraordinary items as previously required under Statement No. 4. The company adopted the standard effective January 1, 2003 and has properly reflected the current quarter loss on extinguishment of debt which may not be added back to net income in the calculation of FFO. Although the company has adopted this treatment, it has also disclosed FFO, FAD and EBITDA adjusted for the loss on extinguishment of debt in 2005 for enhanced clarity.
FFO, FAD and EBITDA are financial measures that are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. The company's management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results, in making operating decisions and for budget planning purposes. Additionally, FFO and FAD are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. FFO, FAD and EBITDA do not represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, FFO, FAD and EBITDA, as defined by the company, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Please see Exhibits 13, 14 and 16 for reconciliations of FAD, FFO and EBITDA to net income.
The company has scheduled a conference call on February 8, 2006, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time to discuss its fourth quarter and year end results, industry trends, portfolio performance and outlook for 2006. To participate in the webcast, log on to www.hcreit.com or www.earnings.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days through the same Web sites. This earnings release is posted on the company's Web site under the heading Press Releases.
Conference Call Information
.
Health Care REIT, Inc., with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is a real estate investment trust that invests in health care and senior housing properties. At December 31, 2005, the company had
Page 4 of 16
 
investments in 442 facilities in 36 states with 54 operators and had total assets of approximately $3.0 billion. The portfolio included 195 assisted living facilities, 203 skilled nursing facilities, 31 independent living/continuing care retirement communities and 13 specialty care facilities. More information is available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.
This document may contain "forward-looking" statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements concern and are based upon, among other things, the possible expansion of the company's portfolio; the sale of properties; the performance of its operators and properties; its ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any; its ability to make distributions; its policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; its tax status as a real estate investment trust; its ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; its ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; and its ability to meet its earnings guidance. When the company uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate" or similar expressions, it is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. The company's expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from expectations. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies and operators' difficulty in obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and senior housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; the company's ability to transition or sell facilities with a profitable result; the failure of closings to occur as and when anticipated; acts of God affecting our properties; the company's ability to reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator bankruptcies or insolvencies; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates; liability claims and insurance costs for operators; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; environmental laws affecting the company's properties; delays in reinvestment of sale proceeds; changes in rules or practices governing the company's financial reporting; and structure related factors, including real estate investment trust qualification, anti-takeover provisions and key management personnel. Finally, the company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Page 5 of 16
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited)
(In thousands)
Page 6 of 16
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited)
(In thousands, except per share data)
Page 7 of 16
 
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. Financial Supplement  December 31, 2005
 
 
Notes: (1) Revenues include gross revenues and revenues from discontinued operations.
Page 8 of 16
 
Page 9 of 16
 
 
Notes: Data as of September 30, 2005.
Page 10 of 16
 
Operating Lease Expirations & Loan Maturities
 
Notes: (1) Revenue impact by year, annualized.
 
Page 11 of 16
 
Page 12 of 16
 
 
Page 13 of 16
 
 
Page 14 of 16
 
 
Notes: (1) Provision for depreciation includes provision for depreciation from discontinued operations.
Page 15 of 16
 
 
Page 16 of 16


