FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20070807171326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 7, 2007, Health Care REIT, Inc. issued a press release that announced operating results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2007. The press release is posted on the Company's Web site (www.hcreit.com) under the heading News & Events. A copy of the press release has been furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
None.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1                Press release dated August 7, 2007
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Its: Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Dated: August 7, 2007

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
August 7, 2007 For more information contact: Scott Estes  (419) 247-2800 Mike Crabtree  (419) 247-2800
Toledo, Ohio, August 7, 2007........announced today operating results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2007.
Health Care REIT, Inc. (NYSE:HCN)
Recent Highlights.
Key Performance Indicators
.
The following table summarizes certain items impacting NICS, FFO and FAD:
2Q07 Earnings
.
 
Page 1 of 15
 
The following table summarizes certain items impacting NICS, FFO and FAD:
2007 Year-To-Date Earnings
.
 
As previously announced, the Board of Directors declared a dividend for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 of $0.66 per share, as compared to $0.64 per share for the same period in 2006. The dividend will be payable August 20, 2007 to stockholders of record on August 3, 2007 and will be the company's 145 consecutive dividend payment.
Dividends for Second Quarter 2007
.
th
The company is affirming its investment guidance of $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion for 2007. Acquisition guidance has been increased to a range of $750 to $950 million from $700 to $800 million, while development funding is now projected to be approximately $250 million versus the prior range of $300 to $400 million. The decline in funded development projection is due to estimated timing of fundings as the company's overall development pipeline remains strong. In addition, the company expects $100 to $200 million of dispositions, resulting in net investments of $800 million to $1.1 billion.
Outlook for 2007
.
The company is adjusting its 2007 guidance for net income available to common stockholders to a range of $1.27 to $1.33 per diluted share from $1.18 to $1.26 per diluted share primarily due to the increase in acquisition guidance, expected interest savings from the $400 million convertible debt offering completed in July 2007, a reduction in projected depreciation and amortization to $146 million from $151 million and $1.0 million in gains on sales of real property in the second quarter. The company is increasing its 2007 normalized FFO guidance to a range of $3.09 to $3.15 per diluted share, from $3.06 to $3.14 per diluted share primarily due to the increase in acquisition guidance and the interest savings noted above. The company is increasing its 2007 FAD guidance to a range of $2.91 to $2.97 per diluted share, from $2.82 to $2.90 per diluted share primarily due to the increase in acquisition guidance, the interest savings noted above, cash receipts during the second quarter of $2.8 million and a reduction in expected capital expenditures, tenant improvements and lease commissions totaling $6 million from $7 million, offset in part by the $1.75 million in one-time acquisition finders' fees paid during the second quarter.
FFO and FAD for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 have been adjusted for $1.75 million of one-time acquisition finders' fees paid to former Windrose management in connection with the closing of the Rendina/Paramount transaction. These fees relate to services rendered prior to the completion of the Windrose merger in December 2006. Due to the recipients' current employment status with the company, the fees have been expensed as compensation rather than included in the purchase price of the acquisition, as is typical with such fees. These fees are excluded from the company's normalized FFO guidance for 2007.
The company's guidance excludes any impairments, unanticipated additions to the loan loss reserve or other additional one-time items, including any additional cash payments other than normal monthly rental payments. Please see Exhibit 16 for a reconciliation of the outlook for net income available to common stockholders to FFO and FAD.
The company has scheduled a conference call on Wednesday, August 8, 2007 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss its second quarter results, industry trends, portfolio performance and outlook for 2007. Telephone access will be available by dialing 800-811-8845 or 913-981-4905
Conference Call Information
.
Page 2 of 15
 
(international). For those unable to listen to the call live, a taped rebroadcast will be available beginning two hours after completion of the call through August 22, 2007. To access the rebroadcast, dial 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 (international). The conference ID number is 2934492. To participate in the webcast, log on to www.hcreit.com or www.earnings.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days through the same Web sites. This earnings release is posted on the company's Web site under the heading News & Events.
The company believes that net income available to common stockholders (NICS), as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, the company considers funds from operations (FFO) and funds available for distribution (FAD) to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Normalized FFO represents FFO adjusted for unusual and non-recurring items. FAD represents FFO excluding the net straight-line rental adjustments, rental income related to above/below market leases and amortization of deferred loan expenses and less cash used to fund capital expenditures, tenant improvements and lease commissions. Normalized FAD represents FAD excluding prepaid/straight-line rent cash receipts and adjusted for unusual and non-recurring items.
Supplemental Reporting Measures
.
EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The company believes that EBITDA, along with net income and cash flow provided from operating activities, is an important supplemental measure because it provides additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of its operations. Additionally, restrictive covenants in the company's long-term debt arrangements contain financial ratios based on EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA as adjusted for stock-based compensation expenses and the provision for loan losses pursuant to covenant provisions of our unsecured lines of credit arrangements. The company primarily utilizes EBITDA to measure its interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by total interest, and its fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest, secured debt principal amortization and preferred stock dividends.
Net operating income (NOI) is used to evaluate the operating performance of certain real estate properties such as medical office buildings. The company defines NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements and discontinued operations, less property operating expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, impairments and interest expense. The company believes NOI provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the operating performance of our medical office buildings at the property level on an unleveraged basis. The company uses NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our medical office buildings.
The company's supplemental reporting measures are financial measures that are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. The company's management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, they are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. The supplemental reporting measures do not represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of
Page 3 of 15
 
profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by the company, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Please see the Exhibits for reconciliations of the supplemental reporting measures.
About Health Care REIT
.
Health Care REIT, Inc., with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is a self-administered, equity real estate investment trust that invests across the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate, including independent living/continuing care retirement communities, assisted living facilities, skilled nursing facilities, hospitals, long-term acute care hospitals and medical office buildings. Founded in 1970, the company was the first real estate investment trust to invest exclusively in health care facilities. As of June 30, 2007, the company's broadly diversified portfolio consisted of 617 properties in 38 states. The company also offers a full array of property management and development services. More information is available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.
This document may contain "forward-looking" statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements concern and are based upon, among other things, the possible expansion of the company's portfolio; the sale of properties; the performance of its operators and properties; its occupancy rates; its ability to acquire or develop properties; its ability to manage properties; its ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for vacant space or for properties that the company takes back from financially troubled tenants, if any; its ability to make distributions; its policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; its tax status as a real estate investment trust; its ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; its ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; its critical accounting policies; and its ability to meet its earnings guidance. When the company uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "estimate" or similar expressions, it is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. The company's expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from expectations. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies; operators' and tenants' difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and senior housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators or tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; the company's ability to transition or sell facilities with a profitable result; the failure of closings to occur as and when anticipated; acts of God affecting the company's properties; the company's ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; the company's ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; operator or tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates; liability or contract claims by or against operators and tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions and the integration of multi-property acquisitions; environmental laws affecting the company's properties; changes in rules or practices governing the company's financial reporting; and legal and operational matters, including real estate investment trust qualification and key management personnel recruitment and retention. Finally, the company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Page 4 of 15
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited)
(In thousands)
Page 5 of 15
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited)
(In thousands, except per share data)
Page 6 of 15
 
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. Financial Supplement  June 30, 2007
Exhibit 1
Portfolio Composition
($000's except Investment per Bed/Unit/Sq. Ft.)
 
Notes: (1) Includes $799,000 of loans on non-accrual.
(2) Real Estate Investments include gross real estate investments and credit enhancements which amounted to $4,660,186,000 and $2,450,000, respectively.
(3) Committed Balance includes gross real estate investments, credit enhancements and unfunded construction commitments for which initial funding had commenced.
Exhibit 2
Selected Facility Data
 
Notes: Data as of March 31, 2007. Payor mix represents percentage of facility/operator revenues.
Page 7 of 15
 
Exhibit 3
Investment Concentrations ($000's)
Exhibit 4
NOI Reconciliation ($000's)
 
Notes: (1) Revenues include gross revenues and revenues from discontinued operations.
Page 8 of 15
 
Exhibit 5
Revenue Maturities ($000's)
 
Notes: (1) Revenue impact by year, annualized.
Exhibit 6
Debt Maturities and Principal Payments ($000's)
 
Notes: (1) Subsequent to June 30, 2007, the lines of credit have been combined and the maturity extended to 2011.
(2) Amounts above represent principal amounts due and do not reflect unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
Exhibit 7
Fill-Up Concentrations ($000's)
 
Notes: (1) Revenues include gross revenues and revenues from discontinued operations for the six months ended June 30, 2007.
Page 9 of 15
 
Exhibit 8
Investment Activity ($000's)
Exhibit 9
Development Activity ($000's)
Development Funding Projections for Existing Projects ($000's)
Project Conversion Projections ($000's)
 
Notes: All amounts include both cash advances and non-cash additions such as capitalized interest.
(1) Actual initial yields may be higher if the underlying market rates increase.
Page 10 of 15
 
Exhibit 10
Disposition Activity ($000's)
Exhibit 11
Discontinued Operations ($000's)
Exhibit 12
Page 11 of 15
 
Exhibit 13
EBITDA Reconciliation ($000's)
 
Page 12 of 15
 
Exhibit 14
Funds Available For Distribution Reconciliation
(Amounts in 000's except per share data)
 
Page 13 of 15
 
Exhibit 15
Funds From Operations Reconciliation
(Amounts in 000's except per share data)
 
Page 14 of 15
 
Exhibit 16
Outlook Reconciliations
(Amounts in 000's except per share data)
 
Page 15 of 15


