FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20080902173006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Purchase and Sale Agreement
On September 2, 2008, HCN Acquiror, Inc. ("HCN Sub"), a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Health Care REIT, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the "Agreement") with US Assisted Living Facilities III, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Seller"), and Sunrise Senior Living Investments, Inc., a Virginia corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sunrise Senior Living, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Sunrise").
Pursuant to the Agreement, at closing HCN Sub will acquire a 90% interest in Sunrise Third Senior Holdings, LLC ("Sunrise Third") from Seller for an aggregate purchase price of $643.5 million. The purchase price will be offset by 90% of the debt to be retained or assumed, directly or indirectly, by Sunrise Third (which debt is estimated to be $309 million at closing) and any other liabilities and obligations retained or assumed, directly or indirectly, by Sunrise Third as part of the closing transactions. Sunrise Third indirectly owns or, upon completion of the transaction, will own (through leasing arrangements with its wholly-owned subsidiaries) 29 senior living facilities in 12 states and is and will continue to be 10% owned by Sunrise. Upon completion of the transaction, a Sunrise affiliate will operate and manage the communities pursuant to a management agreement for each community and a manager pooling agreement to be executed at closing, forms of which have been agreed upon.
The Company has 45 days to complete its due diligence investigation of the transaction and the communities. If the Company is not satisfied with the results of this investigation, it may terminate the Agreement at any time before the end of this 45-day period. In connection with the execution of the Agreement, the Company provided an initial deposit to a title company. The deposit will be returned to the Company if it terminates the Agreement during this 45-day period. The deposit will be increased and will become non-refundable (subject to limited exceptions) if the Company does not terminate the Agreement before the end of the 45-day period.
In addition to the termination rights described above, the transaction is subject to various closing conditions, including, among other things, the obtainment of certain lender and ground lessor consents, the receipt of applicable healthcare licenses and governmental approvals, and the absence of material adverse changes affecting the communities or Sunrise Third and certain material adverse changes affecting Sunrise or its facility manager affiliate.
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This document contains "forward-looking" statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When the Company uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "estimate" or similar expressions, it is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect current plans and expectations and are based on information currently available. They are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, including the approval of the transaction by the Company following the completion of its due diligence investigation of the transaction and the communities, the satisfaction of the closing conditions to the transaction described above, the parties' performance of their obligations under the Agreement and other risks and uncertainties identified in the Company's other reports filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure.
The press release announcing the transaction is posted on the Internet (www.hcreit.com) under the heading News & Events. A copy of the press release has been furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
All information in the press release is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise be subject to the liability of that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent the Company specifically incorporated it by reference.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1      Press release dated September 2, 2008
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 2, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Toledo, Ohio, September 2, 2008.....has entered into an agreement with an affiliate of Arcapita, Inc. to acquire its 90% interest in a venture owning 29 senior housing properties managed by Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (NYSE: SRZ) for approximately $643.5 million, subject to final due diligence and excluding transaction costs. Health Care REIT's purchase will be financed with approximately $365.4 million in cash, plus a 90% interest in the $309 million of existing debt held by the venture. This transaction will build upon the success of Health Care REIT's extensive relationship investment program and further strengthen the quality of its diversified portfolio of properties.
Health Care REIT, Inc. (NYSE:HCN)
Sunrise Senior Living, which is widely recognized as one of the country's leading operators of senior housing communities, will continue to manage the properties and will retain a 10% interest in the venture. The communities are in large, high barrier-to-entry markets located primarily in the New York, Los Angeles and Chicago metropolitan areas. As of June  2008, the communities, which are predominantly Sunrise-developed mansions, had 2,082 units and an average resident occupancy of 94%.
"This transaction highlights our ability to acquire premier, consumer-focused real estate," commented George L. Chapman, chairman and chief executive officer of Health Care REIT, Inc. "We look forward to working with Sunrise as a strategic capital partner and believe these assets are an outstanding complement to our portfolio. The addition of these properties will provide us an opportunity to enhance overall NOI growth by capturing facility-level operating income in a tax efficient manner."
"We are very pleased to enter into this new venture with Health Care REIT," said Paul Klaassen, Sunrise's founder and CEO. "These 29 Sunrise communities are in deep and attractive markets. We look forward to developing this strategic relationship with HCN, which will allow us to continue to operate these communities and create value for both companies."
 
Transaction Highlights
The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2008 and was not included in the company's previously announced investment or earnings guidance. Management anticipates adjusting 2008 investment guidance after closing the transaction. With closing anticipated in the fourth quarter of 2008, this transaction would not impact the company's previously issued 2008 earnings guidance. The company believes the transaction will be breakeven to slightly accretive to FFO beginning in 2009.
The transaction is subject to the company's due diligence review. The company may terminate the agreement at any time during the 45-day review period if it is not satisfied with the results of the review. The company's obligation to close is also subject to various other terms and conditions.
Table 1 accompanying this press release lists the 29 Sunrise properties' locations, markets, unit mixes and year built/acquired. A portfolio summary including property photographs is available under the News & Events heading of the company's website and at www.hcreit.com/sunrise.
Additional Portfolio Summary Available
The company has scheduled a conference call on Wednesday, September 3, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss the transaction. Telephone access will be available by dialing 800-240-2134 or 303-262-2138 (international). For those unable to listen to the call live, a taped rebroadcast will be available beginning two hours after completion of the call through September 10, 2008. To access the rebroadcast, dial 800-405-2236 or 303-590-3000 (international). The conference ID number is 11119220. To participate in the webcast, log on to www.hcreit.com or www.earnings.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days through the same websites. This press release is posted on the company's website under the heading News & Events.
Conference Call Information
 
Health Care REIT, Inc., with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is a real estate investment trust that invests across the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate. The company also provides a full array of property management and development services. As of June 30, 2008, the company's broadly diversified portfolio consisted of 635 properties in 38 states. More information is available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.
About Health Care REIT
This document may contain "forward-looking" statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When the company uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "estimate" or similar expressions, it is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect current plans and expectations and are based on information currently available. They are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, including the approval of the transaction by the company following the completion of its due diligence investigation of the transaction and the communities; the satisfaction of closing conditions to the transaction, including, among other things, the obtainment of certain lender and ground lessor consents, the receipt of applicable healthcare licenses and governmental approvals, the absence of material adverse changes affecting the communities or the property-owing entity and certain material adverse changes affecting Sunrise or its facility manager affiliate; the parties' performance of their obligations under the purchase and sale agreement; and other risks and uncertainties identified in the company's other reports filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
 
Health Care REIT's Sunrise Portfolio
Table 1


