FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20080627163000.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
     Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, one asset of the Company, a skilled nursing facility with a book value of approximately $2,150,000, is now classified as discontinued operations due to its sale during April 2008 and its held for sale status at March 31, 2008. As a result, the Company is reclassifying in this Current Report its operations, including rental income, interest expense and provision for depreciation and amortization related to that asset for prior periods. In so doing, the Company is updating portions of Items 6, 7 and 8 of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for the disposition of this asset.
     During the three months ended March 31, 2008, we changed the name of the operating properties segment to medical office buildings and reclassified certain assets and related revenues. Four specialty care facilities that were formerly classified as operating properties have been reclassified in this Current Report to investment properties. Accordingly, we have reclassified the relevant amounts and certain non-segment/corporate assets and revenues to be included in the related business segments in this Current Report to be consistent with the new classification. In so doing, the Company is updating portions of Items 1, 7 and 8 of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 for this new classification.
     This Current Report also includes changes we have made to address certain comments received from the Securities and Exchange Commission in a comment letter dated April 29, 2008 regarding our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Those changes include clarifying that certain financial measures referred to in "Item 7  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties  Portfolio Update" are measures of our customers and not of the Company; deleting references to funds available for distribution (FAD) in "Item 7  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations;" and deleting references in "Item 7  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Critical Accounting Policies" and "Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1. Accounting Policies and Related Matters  Real Property Owned" regarding reliance on appraisers, in connection with the allocation of certain acquisition costs.
     As a result of the changes mentioned above, the Company is updating portions of "Item 1  Business," "Item 6  Selected Financial Data," Item 7  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Neither the application of Statement No. 144 nor the changes mentioned above had an effect on net income available to common stockholders for any period presented therein.
     All other information contained in the Form 10-K and the other portions of Items 1, 6, 7 and 8 have not been updated or modified (with the exception of certain minor changes to Items 7 and 8 to reflect proper cross-references). For more recent information regarding the Company, please see the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports and information filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission since February 28, 2008. Additionally, the Company is including, for information purposes, Financial Statement Schedules III and IV, which are unchanged from Item 15 of the Form 10-K. The foregoing items are attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
None.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
None.
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Its: Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Dated: June 27, 2008

Exhibit 23
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements:
 
of our report dated February 27, 2008 (except for Notes 16 and 18, as to which the date is June 25, 2008), with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedules of Health Care REIT, Inc. included in this Current Report (Form 8-K) of Health Care REIT, Inc.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Toledo, Ohio June 25, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
General
 
Health Care REIT, Inc., a Delaware Corporation, is an equity real estate investment trust ("REIT") that invests across the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate, including continuing care retirement communities, independent living, assisted living, skilled nursing, hospitals, long-term acute care hospitals and medical office buildings. We also offer a full array of property management and development services. Founded in 1970, we were the first REIT to invest exclusively in health care properties. As of December 31, 2007, we had $5,020,026,000 of real estate investments in 638 properties located in 38 states.
 
Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest in the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, operator/tenant and geographic location.
 
Depending on the availability and cost of external capital, we anticipate investing in additional properties and providing loans to qualified obligors. Capital for future investments may be provided by borrowing under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, public or private offerings of debt or equity securities, or the incurrence or assumption of secured indebtedness.
 
References herein to "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" refer to Health Care REIT, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless specifically noted otherwise.
 
Windrose Medical Properties Trust Merger
 
As discussed in our Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2006, we completed our merger with Windrose Medical Properties Trust on December 20, 2006. These operations are the principal component of our medical office building segment. The results of operations for this segment represent the primary change in our consolidated results of operations from the prior year. Allocation of the purchase price has been finalized. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Form 10-K/A
 
Rendina/Paramount Acquisition
 
In May 2007, we completed the acquisition of 17 medical office buildings and Paramount Real Estate Services, a property management company, from affiliates of Rendina Companies. The results of operations for these properties and Paramount have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. Allocation of the purchase price has been finalized. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 
Portfolio of Properties
 
The following table summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2007:
 
 
 
 
Property Types
 
Our primary property types include investment properties and medical office buildings. Investment properties are those in which we do not participate in the management of the property and include skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, independent living/continuing care retirement communities and certain specialty care facilities. Our medical office buildings are those in which we are responsible for the management of the property. Our properties include stand-alone facilities that provide one level of service, combination facilities that provide multiple levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of services. The following is a summary of our various property types.
 
Assisted Living Facilities
 
Assisted living facilities are state regulated rental properties that provide the same services as independent living facilities, but also provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require assistance with activities of daily living, including management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating.
 
  Certain assisted living facilities may include state licensed settings that specialize in caring for those afflicted with Alzheimer's disease similar forms of dementia.
Alzheimer's/Dementia Care Facilities
and/or
 
Skilled Nursing Facilities
 
Skilled nursing facilities are licensed daily rate or rental properties where the majority of individuals require nursing medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for Medicaid Medicare reimbursement.
24-hour
and/or
and/or
 
Independent Living/Continuing Care Retirement Communities
 
These communities may include one or more of the following property types.
 
  Continuing care retirement communities include a combination of detached homes, an independent living facility, an assisted living facility a skilled nursing facility on one campus. These communities are appealing to residents because there is no need for relocating when health and medical needs change. Resident payment plans vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services.
Continuing Care Retirement Communities
and/or
 
  Active adult communities contain primarily for-sale single-family homes, townhomes, cluster homes, mobile homes condominiums with no specialized services. These communities are typically restricted or targeted to adults at least 55 years of age or older. Residents generally lead an independent lifestyle. Communities may include amenities such as a clubhouse, golf course and recreational spaces.
Active Adult Communities
and/or
 
  Independent living facilities are age-restricted multifamily properties with central dining facilities that provide residents access to meals and other services such as housekeeping, linen service, transportation and social and recreational activities.
Independent Living Facilities
 
Specialty Care Facilities
 
Our specialty care facilities generally include acute care hospitals, long-term acute care hospitals and other specialty care facilities. Acute care hospitals provide a wide range of inpatient and outpatient services, including, but not limited to, surgery, rehabilitation, therapy and clinical laboratories. Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services for patients with complex medical conditions that require more intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than that available in most skilled nursing facilities. Other specialty care facilities typically provide specialized inpatient and outpatient care for specific illnesses or diseases, including, among others, orthopedic and neurologic care.
 
Medical Office Buildings
 
Medical office buildings are office and clinic facilities, often located near hospitals or on hospital campuses, specifically constructed and designed for the use by physicians and other health care personnel to provide services to their patients. They may also include ambulatory surgery centers that are used for general or specialty surgical procedures not requiring an overnight stay in a hospital. Medical office buildings typically contain sole and group physician practices and may provide laboratory and other patient services.
 
Investments
 
We invest in senior housing and health care real estate. We diversify our investment portfolio by property type, operator/tenant and geographic location. In determining whether to invest in a property, we focus on the following: (1) the experience of the obligor's management team; (2) the historical and projected financial and operational performance of the property; (3) the credit of the obligor; (4) the security for the lease or loan; and (5) the capital committed to the property by the obligor. We conduct market research and analysis for all potential investments. In addition, we review the value of all properties, the interest rates and covenant requirements of any debt to be assumed and the anticipated sources of repayment of any existing debt that is not to be assumed.
 
We monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property and obligor. Our asset management process generally includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property, periodic review of obligor creditworthiness, periodic property inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. In monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a proprietary database to collect and analyze property-specific data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research to ascertain industry trends and risks.
 
Through asset management and research, we evaluate the operating environment in each property's market to determine whether payment risk is likely to increase. When we identify unacceptable levels of payment risk, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk. We categorize the risk as obligor, property or market risk. For obligor risk, we typically find a substitute operator/tenant to run the property. For property risk, we usually work with the operator/tenant to institute property-level management changes to address the risk. Finally, for market risk, we often encourage an obligor to change its capital structure, including refinancing the property or raising additional equity. Through these asset management and research efforts, we are generally able to intervene at an early stage to address payment risk, and in so doing, support both the collectibility of revenue and the value of our investment.
 
Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate returns to our stockholders.
 
Segment Reporting
 
Our business consists of two business segments  investment properties and medical office buildings. For additional information regarding business segments, see Note 18 to our audited consolidated financial statements.
 
Investment Properties
 
  Our investment properties are those in which we do not participate in the management of the property and are primarily land, building, improvements and related rights that are leased to operators under long-term operating leases. The net value of our investment properties aggregated approximately $3,076,660,000 at December 31, 2007. The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of 12 to 15 years and contain one or more five to renewal options. Most of our rents are received under leases requiring the operator to pay rent and all additional charges incurred in the operation of the leased property. The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased properties. Substantially all of these operating leases are designed with either fixed or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectibility assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.
Real Property.
15-year
triple-net
 
At December 31, 2007, 87% of our investment properties were subject to master leases. A master lease is a lease of multiple properties to one tenant entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire additional properties that are then leased to the tenant under the master lease. The tenant is required to make one monthly payment that represents rent on all the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the master lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the properties or to renew the master lease only with respect to all leased properties at the same time. This bundling feature benefits us because the tenant cannot limit the purchase or renewal to the better performing properties and terminate the leasing arrangement with respect to the poorer performing properties. This spreads our risk among the entire group of properties within the master lease. The bundling feature may provide a similar advantage if the master lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to certain restrictions, a debtor in bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject each of its leases. It is our intent that a tenant in bankruptcy would be required to assume or reject the master lease as a whole, rather than deciding on a property by property basis.
 
  We currently provide for the construction of properties for tenants as part of long-term operating leases. We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used to pay for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the amount advanced during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. We also typically charge a transaction fee at the commencement of construction. The construction period commences upon funding and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of the applicable property or the end of a specified period. During the construction period, we advance funds to the tenants in accordance with agreed upon terms and conditions which require, among other things, periodic site visits by a Company representative. During the construction period, we generally require an additional credit enhancement in the form of payment and performance bonds completion guaranties. At December 31, 2007, we had outstanding construction investments of $313,709,000 and were committed to providing additional funds of approximately $800,697,000 to complete construction.
Construction.
and/or
 
  Our real estate loans are typically structured to provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees and are generally secured by a first, second or third mortgage lien, leasehold mortgage, corporate guaranties personal guaranties. At December 31, 2007, we had outstanding real estate loans of $381,394,000. The interest yield averaged approximately 9.24% per annum on our outstanding real estate loan balances. Our yield on real estate loans depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments. The real estate loans outstanding at December 31, 2007 are generally subject to three to terms with principal amortization schedules balloon payments of the outstanding principal balances at the end of the term. Typically, real estate loans are cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.
Real Estate Loans.
and/or
20-year
and/or
 
Medical Office Buildings
 
Our medical office buildings primarily consist of multi-tenant properties leased to health care providers. Management of these properties is provided by Paramount Real Estate Services, our property management company. Leases with our tenants are primarily triple net leases that require the tenants to pay their proportionate share of operating expenses. Other lease types with our tenants are gross or modified gross leases, where all or a portion of our operating expenses are not reimbursed by tenants. Accordingly, we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, utilities and insurance. At December 31, 2007, 78% of our operating property leases were triple net as compared to 8% gross and 14% modified gross leases. Substantially all of our leases at medical office buildings include annual base rent escalation
 
clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases or are a function of an inflation index, and typically have an initial term ranging from one to 20 years, with a weighted average remaining term of approximately six years as of December 31, 2007. Medical office building leases are normally credit enhanced by guaranties letters of credit. The net value of our medical office buildings aggregated approximately $1,248,264,000 at December 31, 2007.
and/or
 
Development Services Group
 
Through our subsidiary, HCN Development Services Group, Inc. ("DSG"), we develop quality specialty medical properties. Formerly known as Hospital Affiliates Development Corporation or "HADC," DSG develops and constructs new and multi-tenant facilities for us, and in some instances, for third parties who are expected to develop long-term relationships with the Company. DSG provides services such as property development, facility and medical equipment planning and implementation services to healthcare services, physician groups and third party medical property owners.
"build-to-suit"
 
Equity Investments
 
Equity investments consist of an investment in a public company that has a readily determinable fair market value. We classify this equity investment as and, accordingly, record this investment at its fair market value with unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of stockholders' equity. This investment represents a minimal ownership interest in the company.
available-for-sale
 
Borrowing Policies
 
We utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund the purchase of new properties and to provide loan financing. Our debt and equity levels are determined by management to maintain a conservative credit profile. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed rate public debt with long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our leases and loans. For short-term purposes, we may borrow on our unsecured line of credit arrangement. We replace these borrowings with long-term capital such as senior unsecured notes, common stock or preferred stock. When terms are deemed favorable, we may invest in properties subject to existing mortgage indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged properties in which we have invested or may refinance properties acquired on a leveraged basis. It is our intent to limit secured indebtedness. In our agreements with our lenders, we are subject to restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.
 
Competition
 
We compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships, private equity and hedge fund investors, banks, insurance companies, finance/investment companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and tax-exempt bond funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health care and senior housing properties. Some of our competitors are larger with greater resources and lower costs of capital than us. Increased competition inhibits our ability to identify and successfully complete investments. We compete for investments based on a number of factors including rates, financings offered, underwriting criteria and reputation. Our ability to successfully compete is also impacted by economic and population trends, availability of acceptable investment opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs and new and existing laws and regulations.
 
The operators/tenants of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators/tenants of properties that provide comparable services. Operators/tenants compete for patients and residents based on a number of factors including quality of care, reputation, physical appearance of properties, services offered, family preferences, physicians, staff and price. We also face competition from other health care facilities for tenants, such as physicians and other health care providers that provide comparable facilities and services.
 
For additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see "Item 1A  Risk Factors" of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
 
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2007, we had 198 employees.
 
Customer Concentrations
 
The following table summarizes certain information about our customer concentrations as of December 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Certain Government Regulations
 
Health Law Matters  Generally
 
We invest in assisted living, skilled nursing, independent living/continuing care retirement communities, medical office buildings and specialty care facilities, which represented approximately 21%, 32%, 15%, 25% and 7%, respectively, of our investments at December 31, 2007.
 
Typically, operators of assisted living and independent living facilities do not receive significant funding from governmental programs and are regulated by the states, not the federal government. Operators of skilled nursing and specialty care facilities do receive significant funding from governmental programs and are subject to federal and state laws that regulate the type and quality of the medical nursing care provided, ancillary services (e.g., respiratory, occupational, physical and infusion therapies), qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment, distribution of pharmaceuticals, reimbursement and rate setting and operating policies. In addition, as described below, a number of our property operators are subject to extensive laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including kickbacks, physician self-referrals and false claims. Hospitals, physician group practice clinics, and other health care facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification, and inspection laws and regulations. Our tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility.
and/or
 
Licensing and Certification
 
The primary regulations that affect assisted living facilities are the states' licensing laws. In granting and renewing these licenses, the regulatory authorities consider numerous factors relating to a property's physical plant and operations including, but not limited to, admission and discharge standards and staffing and training. A decision to grant or renew a license is also affected by a property's record with respect to patient and consumer rights and medication guidelines and rules. Certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us may require the resident to pay an entrance or upfront fee, a portion of which may be refundable. These entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters. Such oversight and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may adversely affect us.
 
Skilled nursing facilities are subject to a variety of licensure and certificate of need ("CON") laws and regulations. CON laws in those states that have them generally require a facility to demonstrate the need for constructing a new facility, expanding an existing facility, changing the ownership or control of an existing licensed facility, or terminating services that have been approved through the CON process. CONs, where applicable, generally are required before a covered facility can construct a new facility, add beds or expand services, invest in major capital equipment or add new services, or terminate services for which the facility has previously been awarded a CON and a license. The CON laws and regulations may restrict the ability of operators to add new properties or expand an existing facility's size or services. In addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a new operator. If we have to replace a barred property operator, our ability to replace the operator may be affected by CON rules and policies governing changes in control.
 
With respect to licensure, generally our skilled nursing and specialty care facilities are required to be licensed and certified for participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. This generally requires license renewals and compliance surveys on an annual or bi-annual basis. The failure of our operators to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory approval or the failure to correct serious survey deficiencies identified in compliance surveys could prevent them from continuing operations at a property. In addition, if a property is found out of compliance with the conditions of participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other health care programs, the property may be barred from participation in government reimbursement programs. Any of these occurrences may impair the ability of our operators to meet their obligations to us. If we have to replace a barred property operator, our ability to replace the operator may be affected by federal and state rules and policies governing changes in control. This may result in payment delays, an inability to find a replacement operator, a significant working capital commitment from us to a new operator or other difficulties.
 
Reimbursement
 
  Approximately 23% of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, were attributable to assisted living facilities. The majority of the revenues received by the operators of our assisted living facilities are from private pay sources. The remaining revenue source is primarily Medicaid under certain waiver programs. As a part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act ("OBRA") of 1981, Congress established a waiver program enabling some states to offer Medicaid reimbursement to assisted living facilities as an alternative to institutional long-term care services. The provisions of OBRA and the subsequent OBRA Acts of 1987 and 1990 permit states to seek a waiver from typical Medicaid requirements to develop cost-effective alternatives to long-term care, including Medicaid payments for assisted living and home health. At December 31, 2007, five of our 24 assisted living operators received Medicaid reimbursement pursuant to Medicaid waiver programs. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2007, approximately 12% of the revenues at our assisted living facilities were from Medicaid reimbursement. There can be no guarantee that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to maintain its waiver status. If a state loses its waiver status under Medicaid, the state will be unable to maintain Medicaid reimbursement to assisted living facilities, which will reduce the revenues of some of our operators, making it more difficult for such operators to cover expenses, including our rent or debt service.
Assisted Living Facilities.
 
Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are largely determined by local market conditions and operating costs. Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a Medicaid beneficiary who requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to state. Thus, the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may be adversely affected by payor mix, acuity level and changes in Medicaid eligibility and reimbursement levels. In addition, a state could lose its Medicaid waiver and no longer be permitted to utilize Medicaid dollars to reimburse for assisted living services. Changes in revenues could in turn have a material adverse effect on an operator's ability to meet its obligations to us.
 
  Skilled nursing and specialty care facilities typically receive most of their revenues from Medicare and Medicaid, with the balance representing private pay, including private insurance. Consequently, changes in federal or state reimbursement policies may also adversely affect an operator's ability to cover its expenses, including our rent or debt service. Skilled nursing and specialty care facilities are subject to periodic pre- and post-payment reviews and other audits by federal and state authorities. A review or audit of claims of a property operator could result in recoupments, denials or delays of payments in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the operator's ability to meet its obligations to us. Due to the significant judgments and estimates inherent in payor settlement accounting, no assurance can be given as to the adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators for potential adjustments to reimbursements for payor settlements. Due to budgetary constraints, governmental payors may limit or reduce payments to skilled nursing and specialty care facilities. As a result of government reimbursement programs being subject to such budgetary pressures and legislative and administrative actions, an operator's ability to meet its obligations to us may be significantly impaired.
Skilled Nursing Facilities and Specialty Care Facilities.
 
  For the twelve months ended September 30, 2007, approximately 29% of the revenues at our skilled nursing facilities (which comprised 32% of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007) were from Medicare reimbursement. In an effort to reduce federal spending on health care, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 ("BBA") fundamentally altered Medicare payment methodologies for skilled nursing facilities by mandating the institution of the skilled nursing facility prospective payment system. The prospective payment system shifted reimbursement from reasonable cost to a prospective fee schedule that generally reduced Medicare reimbursement for skilled nursing facility services. The reductions in Medicare payments resulted in immediate financial difficulties for skilled nursing facilities and caused a number of operators to seek bankruptcy protection. The federal government subsequently passed legislation to lessen the negative financial impact from the prospective payment system. These payment increases have since expired.
Medicare Reimbursement and Skilled Nursing Facilities.
 
Skilled nursing facilities received a 3.3% inflationary market basket increase in Medicare payments for federal fiscal year 2008, which represents $690 million of additional Medicare spending. Section 5008 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 directs the Secretary (as defined in that statute) to conduct a demonstration program beginning January 1, 2008 assessing the costs and outcomes of patients discharged from hospitals in a variety of post-acute care settings, including skilled nursing facilities. The outcome of that demonstration program could lead to changes in Medicare coverage and reimbursement for post-acute care. It is not known how either the demonstration program, or any other changes in Medicare reimbursement or regulatory obligations that might be proposed, might impact tenants of the Company's properties.
 
The BBA mandated caps on Medicare reimbursement for certain therapy services. However, Congress imposed various moratoriums on the implementation of those caps. The moratoriums on the therapy caps for Part B outpatient rehabilitation services expired December 31, 2005. The annual payment cap of $1,810 per patient applies to occupational therapy and a separate $1,810 cap applies to speech and physical therapy. Until June 30, 2008, patients exceeding the cap will be able to obtain additional Medicare coverage through a waiver program if the therapy is deemed medically necessary. If the waiver program is not further extended, patients will need to use private funds to pay for the cost of therapy above the caps. The waiver has historically been extended.
 
  For the twelve months ended September 30, 2007, approximately 39% of the revenues at our specialty care facilities (which comprised 5% of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007) were from Medicare. Specialty care facilities generally are reimbursed by Medicare under either the diagnosis related group prospective payment system reimbursement methodology for inpatient hospitals, or the long-term acute care hospital prospective payment system for long-term acute care hospitals. Acute care hospitals provide a wide range of inpatient and outpatient services including, but not limited
Medicare Reimbursement and Specialty Care Facilities.
 
to, surgery, rehabilitation, therapy and clinical laboratories. Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services for patients with complex medical conditions that require more intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than that available in most skilled nursing facilities.
 
With respect to Medicare's diagnosis related group/outpatient prospective payment system methodology for regular hospitals, reimbursement for inpatient services is on the basis of a fixed, prospective rate based on the principal diagnosis of the patient. Hospitals are at risk to the extent that their costs in treating a specific case exceed the fixed payment. The diagnosis related group reimbursement system was significantly changed for 2008, with the expansion of diagnosis groups from 538 to 745 diagnosis related groups to greater reflect severity. It is possible that this change in the DRG system will adversely impact reimbursement for some of our hospitals. In some cases, a hospital might be able to qualify for an outlier payment if the hospital's losses exceed a threshold.
 
  Medicaid is a major payor source for residents in our skilled nursing and specialty care facilities. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2007, approximately 52% of the revenues of our skilled nursing facilities and 28% of the revenues of our specialty care facilities were attributable to Medicaid payments. The federal government and the states share responsibility for financing Medicaid. The federal matching rate, known as the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage, varies by state based on relative per capita income, but is at least 50% in all states. On average, Medicaid is the largest component of total state spending, representing approximately 22.0% of total state spending. The percentage of Medicaid dollars used for long-term care varies from state to state due in part to different ratios of elderly population and eligibility requirements. Within certain federal guidelines, states have a wide range of discretion to determine eligibility and reimbursement methodology. Many states reimburse long-term care facilities using fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based on patient acuity and the historical costs incurred in providing patient care. Reasonable costs typically include allowances for staffing, administrative and general, and property and equipment (e.g., real estate taxes, depreciation and fair rental).
Medicaid Reimbursement.
 
In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse the cost of providing skilled nursing services. Certain states are attempting to slow the rate of growth in Medicaid expenditures by freezing rates or restricting eligibility and benefits. States in which we have skilled nursing property investments increased their per diem Medicaid rates roughly 3.3% on average for fiscal year 2008. Three of our states have effectively frozen rates for fiscal year 2008, which will impact profitability to the extent that expenses continue to rise. In addition, Medicaid rates may decline if revenues in a particular state are not sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures.
 
The Medicare Part D drug benefit became effective January 1, 2006. The direct impact on nursing facilities is that residents dually eligible for Medicare (and enrolled in one of the new Part D plans) and Medicaid now may enroll and receive reimbursement for drugs through Medicare Part D rather than through Medicaid. Part D will result in increased administrative responsibilities for nursing home operators because enrollment in Part D is voluntary and residents have the choice of multiple prescription drug plans. Operators may also experience increased expenses to the extent that patients' specific prescribed drugs may not be on the Part D drug plan formulary for the plan in which specific patients are enrolled.
 
The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to evolve. Federal and state authorities have considered and may seek to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property operations. The impact of any such change, if implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our skilled nursing and specialty care property operations. No assurance can be given that current revenue sources or levels will be maintained. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that payments under a government reimbursement program are currently, or will be in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property operators for their operating and capital expenses. As a result, an operator's ability to meet its obligations to us could be adversely impacted.
 
Other Related Laws
 
Skilled nursing and specialty care facilities (and assisted living facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the operations and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by health care providers. Certain of these laws prohibit direct or indirect payments of any kind for the purpose of inducing or encouraging the referral of patients for medical products or services reimbursable by governmental programs. Other laws require providers to furnish only medically necessary
 
services and submit to the government valid and accurate statements for each service. Still other laws require providers to comply with a variety of safety, health and other requirements relating to the condition of the licensed property and the quality of care provided. Sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations may include, but are not limited to, criminal civil penalties and fines and a loss of licensure, immediate termination of governmental payments, and exclusion from eligibility for any governmental reimbursement. In certain circumstances, violation of these rules (such as those prohibiting abusive and fraudulent behavior) with respect to one property may subject other facilities under common control or ownership to sanctions, including exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In the ordinary course of its business, a property operator is regularly subjected to inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and regulations.
and/or
 
Each skilled nursing and specialty care property (and any assisted living property that receives Medicaid payments) is subject to the federal anti-kickback statute that generally prohibits persons from offering, providing, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual or the furnishing of a good or service for which payment may be made under a federal health care program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Skilled nursing and specialty care facilities are also subject to the federal Ethics in Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the Stark Law. The Stark Law generally prohibits the submission of claims to Medicare for payment if the claim results from a physician referral for certain designated services and the physician has a financial relationship with the health service provider that does not qualify under one of the exceptions for a financial relationship under the Stark Law. Similar prohibitions on physician self-referrals and submission of claims apply to state Medicaid programs. Further, skilled nursing and specialty care facilities (and assisted living facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to substantial financial penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the False Claims Act and, in particular, actions under the False Claims Act's "whistleblower" provisions. Private enforcement of health care fraud has increased due in large part to amendments to the False Claims Act that encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These whistleblower suits by private individuals, known as qui tam actions, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and former patients, nurses and other employees. Some cases have been brought under the federal False Claims Act asserting claims for treble damages and up to $11,000 per claim on the basis of the alleged failure of a nursing facility to meet applicable regulations relating to the operation of the nursing facility. Prosecutions, investigations or whistle blower actions could have a material adverse effect on a property operator's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations which could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet its obligations to us. Finally, various state false claim and anti-kickback laws also may apply to each property operator. Violation of any of the foregoing statutes can result in criminal civil penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.
and/or
 
Other legislative developments over the past several years, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), have greatly expanded the definition of health care fraud and related offenses and broadened its scope to include private health care plans in addition to government payors. Congress also has greatly increased funding for the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services to audit, investigate and prosecute suspected health care fraud. Moreover, a significant portion of the billions in health care fraud recoveries over the past several years has also been returned to government agencies to further fund their fraud investigation and prosecution efforts.
 
Additionally, other HIPAA provisions and regulations provide for communication of health information through standard electronic transaction formats and for the privacy and security of health information. In order to comply with the regulations, health care providers must undergo significant operational and technical changes. Operators also face significant financial exposure if they fail to maintain the confidentiality of medical records and personal, identifiable health information about individuals.
 
In November 2002, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, began a national Nursing Home Quality Initiative (NHQI). Under this initiative, historical survey information, the NHQI Pilot Evaluation Report and the NHQI Overview is made available to the public on-line. The NHQI website provides consumer and provider information regarding the quality of care in nursing homes. The data allows consumers, providers, states and researchers to compare quality information that shows how well nursing homes are caring for their residents' physical and clinical needs. The posted nursing home
 
quality measures come from resident assessment data that nursing homes routinely collect on the residents at specified intervals during their stay. If the operators of nursing facilities are unable to achieve quality of care ratings that are comparable or superior to those of their competitors, they may lose market share to other facilities, reducing their revenues and adversely impacting their ability to make rental payments.
 
Finally, government investigation and enforcement of health care laws has increased dramatically over the past several years and is expected to continue. Some of these enforcement actions represent novel legal theories and expansions in the application of false claims laws. The costs for an operator of a health care property associated with both defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settlement agreements can be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.
 
Environmental Laws
 
A wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect health care facility operations or special medical properties. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender (such as the Company) may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability for such costs could exceed the value of the property, the assets of the owner or secured lender. In addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, would reduce revenues.
and/or
 
Taxation
 
Federal Income Tax Considerations
 
The following summary of the taxation of the Company and the material federal tax consequences to the holders of our debt and equity securities is for general information only and is not tax advice. This summary does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to certain types of holders of stock or securities (including, but not limited to, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers, persons holding shares of common stock as part of a hedging, integrated conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in securities that use a method of accounting for their securities, investors in pass-through entities and foreign corporations and persons who are not citizens or residents of the United States).
mark-to-market
 
This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your particular investment or other circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss any state or local income taxation or foreign income taxation or other tax consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax law. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including changes in law or differing interpretations, which may be applied retroactively, could have a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our securities as set forth in this summary. Before you purchase our securities, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding the particular U.S. federal, state, local, foreign and other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our securities.
 
General
 
We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (or "REIT") commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for subsequent years. Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety of qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with respect to income, assets, distribution level and diversity of share ownership as discussed below under " Qualification as a REIT." There can be no assurance that we will be owned and organized and will operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified.
 
In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general, we will not be subject to federal income tax on that portion of our REIT taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. We may, however, be subject to tax at normal corporate rates on any taxable income or capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain and pay
 
income tax on our net long-term capital gain, stockholders are required to include their proportionate share of our undistributed long-term capital gain in income, but they will receive a refundable credit for their share of any taxes paid by us on such gain.
 
Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to federal income and excise tax as follows:
 
 
If we acquire any assets from a corporation which is or has been a "C" corporation in a carryover basis transaction, we could be liable for specified liabilities that are inherited from the "C" corporation. A "C" corporation is generally defined as a corporation that is required to pay full corporate level federal income tax. If we recognize gain on the disposition of the assets during the ten-year period beginning on the date on which the assets were acquired by us, then to the extent of the assets' "built-in gain" (i.e., the excess of the fair market value of the asset over the adjusted tax basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the beginning of the ten-year period), we will be subject to tax on the gain at the highest regular corporate rate applicable. The results described in this paragraph with respect to the recognition of built-in gain assume that the built-in gain assets, at the time the built-in gain assets were subject to a conversion transaction (either where a "C" corporation elected REIT status or a REIT acquired the assets from a "C" corporation), were not treated as sold to an unrelated party and gain recognized.
 
Qualification as a REIT
 
A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or association:
 
 
 
 
Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. For purposes of conditions (5) and (6), pension funds and certain other tax-exempt entities are treated as individuals, subject to a "look-through" exception in the case of condition (6).
 
Based on publicly available information, we believe we have satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and (6) above. In addition, Article VI of our Amended and Restated By-Laws provides for restrictions regarding ownership and transfer of shares. These restrictions are intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share ownership requirements described in (5) and (6) above. These restrictions, however, may not ensure that we will, in all cases, be able to satisfy the share ownership requirements described in (5) and (6) above.
 
We have complied with, and will continue to comply with, regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our stockholders requesting information regarding the actual ownership of our stock. If, despite sending the annual letters, we do not know, or after exercising reasonable diligence would not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer Requirement, we will be treated as having met the Five or Fewer Requirement. If we fail to comply with these regulatory rules, we will be subject to a monetary penalty. If our failure to comply was due to intentional disregard of the requirement, the penalty would be increased. However, if our failure to comply were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be imposed.
 
We may own a number of properties through wholly owned subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a "qualified REIT subsidiary" if 100% of its stock is owned by a REIT and the REIT does not elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A "qualified REIT subsidiary" will not be treated as a separate corporation, and all assets, liabilities and items of income, deductions and credits of a "qualified REIT subsidiary" will be treated as assets, liabilities and items (as the case may be) of the REIT. A "qualified REIT subsidiary" is not subject to federal income tax, and our ownership of the voting stock of a qualified REIT subsidiary will not violate the restrictions against ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more than 10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer or more than 5% of the value of our total assets, as described below under " Asset Tests."
 
If we invest in a partnership, a limited liability company or a trust taxed as a partnership or as a disregarded entity, we will be deemed to own a proportionate share of the partnership's, limited liability company's or trust's assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving our share of the income and loss of the partnership, limited liability company or trust, and the gross income will retain the same character in our hands as it has in the hands of the partnership, limited liability company or trust. These "look-through" rules apply for purposes of the income tests and assets tests described below.
 
  There are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that we must satisfy for each taxable year.
Income Tests.
 
 
For taxable years beginning on or before October 22, 2004, (1) payments to us under an interest rate swap or cap agreement, option, futures contract, forward rate agreement or any similar financial instrument entered into by us to reduce interest rate risk on indebtedness incurred or to be incurred and (2) gain from the sale or other
 
disposition of any such investment are treated as income qualifying under the 95% gross income test. As to transactions entered into in taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, any of our income from a "clearly identified" hedging transaction that is entered into by us in the normal course of business, directly or indirectly, to manage the risk of interest rate movements, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be incurred by us, or such other risks that are prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, is excluded from the 95% gross income test. In general, a hedging transaction is "clearly identified" if (1) the transaction is identified as a hedging transaction before the end of the day on which it is entered into and (2) the items or risks being hedged are identified "substantially contemporaneously" with the hedging transaction. An identification is not substantially contemporaneous if it is made more than 35 days after entering into the hedging transaction.
 
Rents received by us will qualify as "rents from real property" for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests for a REIT only if several conditions are met:
 
 
For taxable years beginning after August 5, 1997, a REIT has been permitted to render a de minimis amount of impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts received with respect to that property as rent from real property. The amount received or accrued by the REIT during the taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to a property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by the REIT directly or indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service or management operation for this purpose shall be deemed to be not less than 150% of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or providing the management or operation. Furthermore, impermissible services may be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain conditions, and we may still treat rents received with respect to the property as rent from real property.
 
The term "interest" generally does not include any amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person, although an amount generally will not be excluded from the term "interest" solely by reason of being based on a fixed percentage of receipts or sales.
 
If we fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for such year if we are eligible for relief. For taxable years beginning on or before October 22, 2004, these relief provisions generally will be available if (1) our failure to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we attach a schedule of the sources of our income to our return; and (3) any incorrect information on the schedule was not due to fraud with intent to evade tax. For taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, these relief provisions generally will be available if (1) following our identification of the failure, we file a schedule for such taxable year describing each item of our gross income and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.
 
It is not now possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a 100% tax is imposed on an amount equal to (a) the gross income attributable to (1) 75% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% income test and (2) 95% of our gross income (90% of our gross income for taxable years beginning on or before
 
October 22, 2004) over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by (b) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability.
 
  Within 30 days after the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy several tests relating to the nature and diversification of our assets determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets, cash, cash items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our operation), government securities and qualified temporary investments. Although the remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction, we are prohibited from owning securities representing more than 10% of either the vote (the "10% vote test") or value (the "10% value test") of the outstanding securities of any issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Further, no more than 20% of the total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (the "20% asset test") and no more than 5% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of any non-governmental issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary (the "5% asset test"), another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test and the 20% and 5% asset tests must be satisfied at the end of each quarter. There are special rules which provide relief if the value related tests are not satisfied due to changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.
Asset Tests.
 
For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, certain items are excluded from the 10% value test, including (1) straight debt securities of an issuer (including straight debt that provides certain contingent payments); (2) any loan to an individual or an estate; (3) any rental agreement described in Section 467 of the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a "related person"; (4) any obligation to pay rents from real property; (5) certain securities issued by a state or any subdivision thereof, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, or any political subdivision thereof, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; (6) any security issued by a REIT; and (7) any other arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, is excepted from the definition of security ("excluded securities"). Special rules apply to straight debt securities issued by corporations and entities taxable as partnerships for federal income tax purposes. If a REIT, or its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds (1) straight debt securities of a corporate or partnership issuer and (2) securities of such issuer that are not excluded securities and have an aggregate value greater than 1% of such issuer's outstanding securities, the straight debt securities will be included in the 10% value test.
 
For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, a REIT's interest as a partner in a partnership is not treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value test to securities issued by the partnership. Further, any debt instrument issued by a partnership will not be a security for purposes of applying the 10% value test (1) to the extent of the REIT's interest as a partner in the partnership and (2) if at least 75% of the partnership's gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would qualify for the 75% gross income test. For taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, for purposes of the 10% value test, a REIT's interest in a partnership's assets is the REIT's proportionate interest in any securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded securities described in the preceding paragraph).
 
With respect to corrections of failures for which the requirements for corrections are satisfied after October 22, 2004, regardless of whether such failures occurred in taxable years beginning on, before or after such date, as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test or the 5% asset test, a REIT may avoid disqualification as a REIT by disposing of sufficient assets to cure a violation that does not exceed the lesser of 1% of the REIT's assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided that the disposition occurs within six months following the last day of the quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets. For violations of any of the REIT asset tests due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect that exceed the thresholds described in the preceding sentence, a REIT can avoid disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter by taking certain steps, including disposition of sufficient assets within the six month period described above to meet the applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period of time that the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and filing a schedule with the Internal Revenue Service that describes the non-qualifying assets.
 
  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, REITs may own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in taxable REIT subsidiaries. We and any taxable corporate entity in which we own an interest are allowed to jointly elect to treat such entity as a "taxable REIT subsidiary."
Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.
 
Certain of our subsidiaries have elected to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to full corporate level federal taxation on their earnings but are permitted to engage in certain types of activities that cannot be performed directly by REITs without jeopardizing their REIT status. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries will attempt to minimize the amount of these taxes, but there can be no assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to minimize taxes will be successful. To the extent our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to pay federal, state or local taxes, the cash available for distribution as dividends to us from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.
 
The amount of interest on related-party debt that a taxable REIT subsidiary may deduct is limited. Further, a 100% tax applies to any interest payments by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its affiliated REIT to the extent the interest rate is not commercially reasonable. A taxable REIT subsidiary is permitted to deduct interest payments to unrelated parties without any of these restrictions.
 
The Internal Revenue Service may reallocate costs between a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiary where there is a lack of arm's-length dealing between the parties. Any deductible expenses allocated away from a taxable REIT subsidiary would increase its tax liability. Further, any amount by which a REIT understates its deductions and overstates those of its taxable REIT subsidiary will, subject to certain exceptions, be subject to a 100% tax. Additional taxable REIT subsidiary elections may be made in the future for additional entities in which we own an interest.
 
  In order to avoid being taxed as a regular corporation, we are required to make distributions (other than capital gain distributions) to our stockholders which qualify for the dividends paid deduction in an amount at least equal to (1) the sum of (i) 90% of our "REIT taxable income" (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the after-tax net income, if any, from foreclosure property, minus (2) a portion of certain items of non-cash income. These distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared before we timely file our tax return for that year and if paid on or before the first regular distribution payment after such declaration. The amount distributed must not be preferential. This means that every stockholder of the class of stock to which a distribution is made must be treated the same as every other stockholder of that class, and no class of stock may be treated otherwise than in accordance with its dividend rights as a class. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our "REIT taxable income," as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates. Finally, as discussed above, we may be subject to an excise tax if we fail to meet certain other distribution requirements. We intend to make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual distribution requirements.
Annual Distribution Requirements.
 
It is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or to distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to, among other things, (1) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of income and deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (2) the payment of severance benefits that may not be deductible to us. In the event that timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for borrowings or, if possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock dividends in order to meet the distribution requirement.
 
Under certain circumstances, in the event of a deficiency determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be able to rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement for a year by paying "deficiency dividends" to stockholders in a later year, which may be included in our deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year. Thus, we may be able to avoid being taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency distributions; however, we will be required to pay applicable penalties and interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency distributions.
 
Failure to Qualify as a REIT
 
If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT will not be deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions be required to be made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these distributions and, subject to
 
certain limitations, will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. It is not possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to statutory relief. Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need to incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to pay potentially significant resulting tax liabilities.
 
In addition to the relief described above under " Income Tests" and " Asset Tests," relief is available in the event that we violate a provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would result in our failure to qualify as a REIT if (1) the violation is due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, (2) we pay a penalty of $50,000 for each failure to satisfy the provision, and (3) the violation does not include a violation described under " Income Tests" or " Asset Tests" above. It is not now possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions.
 
Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock
 
  The following summary applies to you only if you are a "U.S. stockholder." A "U.S. stockholder" is a stockholder of shares of stock who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is:
Treatment of Taxable U.S. Stockholders.
 
 
So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT, distributions on shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these distributions (and not designated as capital gain dividends) will be includable as ordinary income for federal income tax purposes. None of these distributions will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for U.S. corporate stockholders.
 
Generally, for taxable years ending after May 6, 2003 through December 31, 2010, the maximum marginal rate of tax payable by individuals on dividends received from corporations that are subject to a corporate level of tax is 15%. Except in limited circumstances, this tax rate will not apply to dividends paid to you by us on our shares, because generally we are not subject to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable income or capital gains distributed to our stockholders. The reduced maximum federal income tax rate will apply to that portion, if any, of dividends received by you with respect to our shares that are attributable to: (1) dividends received by us from non-REIT corporations or other taxable REIT subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior year with respect to which we were required to pay federal corporate income tax during the prior year (if, for example, we did not distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income for the prior year); or (3) the amount of any earnings and profits that were distributed by us and accumulated in a non-REIT year.
 
Distributions that are designated as capital gain dividends will be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year), without regard to the period for which you held our stock. However, if you are a corporation, you may be required to treat a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary income.
 
If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net long-term capital gain, you would include in income, as long-term capital gain, your proportionate share of this net long-term capital gain. You would also receive a refundable tax credit for your proportionate share of the tax paid by us on such retained capital gains and you would have an increase in the basis of your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable capital gains less your share of the tax deemed paid.
 
You may not include in your federal income tax return any of our net operating losses or capital losses. Federal income tax rules may also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and preferences be apportioned to you. In addition, any distribution declared by us in October, November or December of any year on a specified date in any
 
such month shall be treated as both paid by us and received by you on December 31 of that year, provided that the distribution is actually paid by us no later than January 31 of the following year.
 
We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and profits to treat as a dividend any distribution up to the amount required to be distributed in order to avoid imposition of the 4% excise tax discussed under " General" and " Qualification as a REIT  Annual Distribution Requirements" above. As a result, you may be required to treat as taxable dividends certain distributions that would otherwise result in a tax-free return of capital. Moreover, any "deficiency dividend" will be treated as a dividend (an ordinary dividend or a capital gain dividend, as the case may be), regardless of our earnings and profits. Any other distributions in excess of current or accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to you to the extent these distributions do not exceed the adjusted tax basis of your shares of our stock. You will be required to reduce the tax basis of your shares of our stock by the amount of these distributions until the basis has been reduced to zero, after which these distributions will be taxable as capital gain, if the shares of our stock are held as a capital asset. The tax basis as so reduced will be used in computing the capital gain or loss, if any, realized upon sale of the shares of our stock. Any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our stock which were held for six months or less (after application of certain holding period rules) will generally be treated as a long-term capital loss to the extent you previously received capital gain distributions with respect to these shares of our stock.
 
Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock to or with a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of our stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us, you will generally recognize capital gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of our stock. This gain will be capital gain if you held these shares of our stock as a capital asset.
 
If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment can only be determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of redemption. In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as opposed to dividend income) equal to the difference between the amount received by you in the redemption and your adjusted tax basis in your shares redeemed if such redemption results in a "complete termination" of your interest in all classes of our equity securities, is a "substantially disproportionate redemption" or is "not essentially equivalent to a dividend" with respect to you. In applying these tests, there must be taken into account your ownership of all classes of our equity securities (e.g., common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants). You also must take into account any equity securities that are considered to be constructively owned by you.
 
If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares, you no longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity securities or only own (actually and constructively) an insubstantial percentage of our equity securities, then it is probable that the redemption of your shares would be considered "not essentially equivalent to a dividend" and, thus, would result in gain or loss to you. However, whether a distribution is "not essentially equivalent to a dividend" depends on all of the facts and circumstances, and if you rely on any of these tests at the time of redemption, you should consult your tax advisor to determine their application to the particular situation.
 
Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests described above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of your shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a dividend to the extent of the allocable portion of current or accumulated earnings and profits. If the redemption is taxed as a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed shares will be transferred to any other shareholdings in us that you own. If you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain circumstances, such basis may be transferred to a related person, or it may be lost entirely.
 
Gain from the sale or exchange of our shares held for more than one year is taxed at a maximum long-term capital gain rate, which is currently 15%. Pursuant to Internal Revenue Service guidance, we may classify portions of our capital gain dividends as gains eligible for the long-term capital gains rate or as gain taxable to individual stockholders at a maximum rate of 25%.
 
  Tax-exempt entities, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts and individual retirement accounts ("Exempt Organizations"), generally are exempt from federal income taxation. However, they are subject to taxation on their unrelated business taxable income ("UBTI"). The Internal Revenue Service has issued a published revenue ruling that dividend distributions from a REIT to an exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the exempt employee pension trust. Based on this ruling, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an Exempt Organization finances its
Treatment of Tax-Exempt U.S. Stockholders.
 
acquisition of the shares of our stock with debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the "debt financed property" rules. Likewise, a portion of the Exempt Organization's income from us would constitute UBTI if we held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit.
 
In addition, in certain circumstances, a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a percentage of our dividends as UBTI. This rule applies to a pension trust holding more than 10% of our stock only if (1) the percentage of our income that is UBTI (determined as if we were a pension trust) is at least 5%, (2) we qualify as a REIT by reason of the modification of the Five or Fewer Requirement that allows beneficiaries of the pension trust to be treated as holding shares in proportion to their actuarial interests in the pension trust, and (3) either (i) one pension trust owns more than 25% of the value of our stock or (ii) a group of pension trusts individually holding more than 10% of the value of our stock collectively own more than 50% of the value of our stock.
 
  Under certain circumstances, you may be subject to backup withholding at applicable rates on payments made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange of, shares of our stock. Backup withholding will apply only if you: (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.
 
Backup withholding will not apply with respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and tax-exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor regarding qualification for exemption from backup withholding, and the procedure for obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the amount of any backup withholding with respect to payment to a stockholder will be allowed as a credit against such stockholder's United States federal income tax liability and may entitle such stockholder to a refund, provided that the required information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service. In addition, withholding a portion of capital gain distributions made to stockholders may be required for stockholders who fail to certify their non-foreign status.
 
  The following summary applies to you only if you are a foreign person. The federal taxation of foreign persons is a highly complex matter that may be affected by many considerations.
Taxation of Foreign Stockholders.
 
Except as discussed below, distributions to you of cash generated by our real estate operations in the form of ordinary dividends, but not by the sale or exchange of our capital assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30%, unless an applicable tax treaty reduces that tax and you file with us the required form evidencing the lower rate.
 
In general, you will be subject to United States federal income tax on a graduated rate basis rather than withholding with respect to your investment in our stock if such investment is "effectively connected" with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States. A corporate foreign stockholder that receives income that is, or is treated as, effectively connected with a United States trade or business may also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in addition to regular United States corporate income tax. The following discussion will apply to foreign stockholders whose investment in us is not so effectively connected. We expect to withhold United States income tax, as described below, on the gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless (1) you file an Internal Revenue Service with us claiming that the distribution is "effectively connected" or (2) certain other exceptions apply.
Form W-8ECI
 
Distributions by us that are attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a United States real property interest will be taxed to you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 ("FIRPTA") as if these distributions were gains "effectively connected" with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, you will be taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. stockholder on these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals. Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be subject to a branch profits tax in the hands of a corporate foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty exemption.
 
We will be required to withhold from distributions subject to FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal Revenue Service, 35% of designated capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 35% of the amount of any distributions that could be designated as capital gain dividends. In addition, if we designate prior distributions as capital gain dividends, subsequent distributions, up to the amount of the prior distributions not withheld against, will be treated as capital gain dividends for purposes of withholding.
 
For taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, any capital gain dividend with respect to any class of stock that is "regularly traded" on an established securities market will be treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign stockholder did not own more than 5% of such class of stock at any time during the taxable year. Once this provision takes effect, foreign stockholders generally will not be required to report distributions received from us on U.S. federal income tax returns and all distributions treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes including any capital gain dividend will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax (unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty) as discussed above. In addition, the branch profits tax will no longer apply to such distributions.
 
Unless our shares constitute a "United States real property interest" within the meaning of FIRPTA or are effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, a sale of our shares by you generally will not be subject to United States taxation. Our shares will not constitute a United States real property interest if we qualify as a "domestically controlled REIT." We do, and expect to continue to, qualify as a domestically controlled REIT. A domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all times during a specified testing period less than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or indirectly by foreign stockholders. However, if you are a nonresident alien individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year and certain other conditions apply, you will be subject to a 30% tax on such capital gains. In any event, a purchaser of our shares from you will not be required under FIRPTA to withhold on the purchase price if the purchased shares are "regularly traded" on an established securities market or if we are a domestically controlled REIT. Otherwise, under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be required to withhold 10% of the purchase price and remit such amount to the Internal Revenue Service.
 
Backup withholding tax and information reporting will generally not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States that are treated as (1) dividends to which the 30% or lower treaty rate withholding tax discussed above applies; (2) capital gains dividends; or (3) distributions attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of U.S. real property interests. Payment of the proceeds of a sale of stock within the United States or conducted through certain U.S. related financial intermediaries is subject to both backup withholding and information reporting unless the beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that he or she is not a U.S. person (and the payor does not have actual knowledge that the beneficial owner is a U.S. person) or otherwise established an exemption. You may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund with the Internal Revenue Service.
 
U.S. Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Depositary Shares
 
Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if you were owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the depositary shares. Thus, you will be required to take into account the income and deductions to which you would be entitled if you were a holder of the underlying series of preferred stock.
 
  No gain or loss will be recognized upon the withdrawal of preferred stock in exchange for depositary shares and the tax basis of each share of preferred stock will, upon exchange, be the same as the aggregate tax basis of the depositary shares exchanged. If you held your depositary shares as a capital asset at the time of the exchange for shares of preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred stock will include the period during which you owned the depositary shares.
Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred Stock.
 
U.S. Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt Securities
 
The following is a general summary of the United States federal income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder that is a as defined below, the United States federal estate tax consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt securities periodically offered under one or more indentures (the "notes"). This summary assumes that you hold the notes as capital assets. This summary applies to you only if you are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes for a price equal to the issue price of the notes. The issue price of the notes is the first price at which a substantial amount of the notes is sold other than to bond houses, brokers or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity of underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In
non-U.S. holder,
 
addition, this summary does not consider any foreign, state, local or other tax laws that may be applicable to us or a purchaser of the notes.
 
U.S. Holders
 
The following summary applies to you only if you are a U.S. holder, as defined below.
 
  A "U.S. holder" is a beneficial owner of a note or notes that is for United States federal income tax purposes:
Definition of a U.S. Holder.
 
 
  Stated interest on the notes generally will be taxed as ordinary interest income from domestic sources at the time it is paid or accrues in accordance with your method of accounting for tax purposes.
Payments of Interest.
 
  The adjusted tax basis in your note acquired at a premium will generally be your cost. You generally will recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or otherwise dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:
Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of Notes.
 
 
Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or loss. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if at the time of the sale or other disposition you have held the notes for more than one year. Subject to limited exceptions, your capital losses cannot be used to offset your ordinary income.
 
  In general, "backup withholding" may apply to any payments made to you of principal and interest on your note, and to payment of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before maturity, if you are a non-corporate U.S. holder and (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.
 
The amount of any reportable payments, including interest, made to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be reported to you and to the Internal Revenue Service for each calendar year. You should consult your tax advisor regarding your qualification for an exemption from backup withholding and the procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable. The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be credited against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that correct information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service.
 
Holders
Non-U.S.
 
The following summary applies to you if you are a beneficial owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above (a
"non-U.S. holder").
 
Special rules may apply to certain such as "controlled foreign corporations," "passive foreign investment companies" and "foreign personal holding companies." Such entities are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the United States federal, state, local and other tax consequences that may be relevant to them.
non-U.S. holders
 
  Subject to the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not apply to payments by us or our paying agent, in its capacity as such, of principal and interest on your notes under the "portfolio interest" exception of the Internal Revenue Code, provided that:
U.S. Federal Withholding Tax.
 
 
 
Treasury regulations provide that:
 
 
If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these Treasury regulations and the certification requirements applicable to you.
 
If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest requirements described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30% United States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a properly executed (1) Internal Revenue Service claiming an exemption from or reduction in withholding under the benefit of an applicable treaty or (2) Internal Revenue Service stating that interest paid on the note is not subject to withholding tax because it is effectively connected with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States. Alternative documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.
Form W-8BEN
Form W-8ECI
 
If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business, you will be required to pay United States federal income tax on that interest on a net income basis (although you will be exempt from the 30% withholding tax provided the certification requirement described above is met) in the same manner as if you were a U.S. person, except as otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a foreign corporation, you may be required to pay a branch profits tax on the earnings and profits that are effectively connected to the conduct of your trade or business in the United States.
 
  You generally will not have to pay U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income realized from the sale, redemption, retirement at maturity or other disposition of your notes, unless:
Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of Notes.
 
 
 
If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business, you generally will be subject to U.S. income tax on a net basis on the gain. In addition, if you are a foreign corporation, you may be subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively connected earnings and profits for the taxable year, as adjusted for certain items.
 
  If you are an individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the United States, as specially defined for U.S. federal estate tax purposes, at the time of your death, your notes will generally not be subject to the U.S. federal estate tax, unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or constructively 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all our classes of stock entitled to vote or (2) interest on the notes is effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
U.S. Federal Estate Tax.
 
  Backup withholding will not apply to payments of principal or interest made by us or our paying agent, in its capacity as such, to you if you have provided the required certification that you are a as described in " U.S. Federal Withholding Tax" above, and provided that neither we nor our paying agent have actual knowledge that you are a U.S. holder, as described in " U.S. Holders" above. We or our paying agent may, however, report payments of interest on the notes.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.
non-U.S. holder
 
The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If you sell your notes outside the United States through a of a and the sales proceeds are paid to you outside the United States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information reporting requirements generally will not apply to that payment. However, U.S. information reporting, but not backup withholding, will apply to a payment of sales proceeds, even if that payment is made outside the United States, if you sell your notes through a of a broker that:
non-U.S. office
non-U.S. broker
non-U.S. office
 
 
You should consult your own tax advisor regarding application of backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from backup withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules from a payment to you will be allowed as a refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided the required information is furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
 
U.S. Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Warrants
 
  You will not generally recognize gain or loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your basis in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will be equal to the sum of your adjusted tax basis in the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding period in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will not include the period during which the warrant was held by you.
Exercise of Warrants.
 
  Upon the expiration of a warrant, you will recognize a capital loss in an amount equal to your adjusted tax basis in the warrant.
Expiration of Warrants.
 
  Upon the sale or exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will recognize gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in the warrant. Such gain or loss will be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the warrant was held for more than one year. Upon the sale of the warrant to us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that you should recognize ordinary income on the sale. You are advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the consequences of a sale of a warrant to us.
Sale or Exchange of Warrants.
 
Potential Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences
 
Current and prospective securities holders should recognize that the present federal income tax treatment of an investment in us may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time and that any such action may affect investments and commitments previously made. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the Treasury Department, resulting in revisions of regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations of these laws could adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.
 
Internet Access to Our SEC Filings
 
Our annual reports on quarterly reports on current reports on and amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy statements and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission are made available, free of charge, on the Internet at www.hcreit.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Form 10-K,
Form 10-Q,
Form 8-K
 
 
 
The following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2007 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated financial statements of Health Care REIT, Inc. for the periods presented and should be read together with the notes thereto. Other important factors are identified in "Item 1  Business" above and "Item 1A  Risk Factors" in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
Executive Overview
 
Business
 
Health Care REIT, Inc. is an equity real estate investment trust that invests in the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate. Founded in 1970, we were the first REIT to invest exclusively in health care properties. The following table summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2007:
 
 
 
 
Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, operator/tenant and geographic location.
 
Substantially all of our revenues and sources of cash flows from operations are derived from operating lease rentals and interest earned on outstanding loans receivable. These items represent our primary source of liquidity to fund distributions and are dependent upon our obligors' continued ability to make contractual rent and interest payments to us. To the extent that our obligors experience operating difficulties and are unable to generate sufficient cash to make payments to us, there could be a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity financial condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property and operator/tenant. Our asset management process includes review of monthly financial statements for each property, periodic review of obligor credit, periodic property inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. In monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a proprietary database to collect and analyze property-specific data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research to ascertain industry trends and risks. Through these asset management and research efforts, we are typically able to intervene at an early stage to address payment risk, and in so doing, support both the collectibility of revenue and the value of our investment.
and/or
 
In addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also structure our investments to help mitigate payment risk. Operating leases and loans are normally credit enhanced by guaranties letters of credit. In addition, operating leases are typically structured as master leases and loans are generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.
and/or
 
For the year ended December 31, 2007, rental income and interest income represented 93% and 5%, respectively, of total gross revenues (including discontinued operations). Substantially all of our operating leases are designed with either fixed or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectibility assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments
 
due for the period. Our yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, the average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments.
 
Depending upon the availability and cost of external capital, we anticipate investing in additional properties. New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, internally generated cash and the proceeds from sales of real property. Our investments generate internal cash from rent and interest receipts and principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under the unsecured line of credit arrangement, is expected to be provided through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. We believe our liquidity and various sources of available capital are sufficient to fund operations, meet debt service obligations (both principal and interest), make dividend distributions and finance future investments.
 
Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate returns to our stockholders. We expect to complete gross new investments of $900,000,000 to $1,200,000,000 in 2008, including acquisitions of $500,000,000 to $700,000,000 and funded new development of $400,000,000 to $500,000,000. We anticipate the sale of real property and the repayment of loans receivable totaling approximately $100,000,000 to $200,000,000 during 2008. It is possible that additional loan repayments or sales of real property may occur in the future. To the extent that loan repayments and real property sales exceed new investments, our revenues and cash flows from operations could be adversely affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any loan repayments and real property sales in new investments. To the extent that new investment requirements exceed our available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our unsecured line of credit arrangement. At December 31, 2007, we had $30,269,000 of cash and cash equivalents and $843,000,000 of available borrowing capacity under our unsecured line of credit arrangement. Our investment activity may exceed our borrowing capacity under our unsecured line of credit. To the extent that we are unable to issue equity or debt securities to provide additional capital, we may not be able to fund all of our potential investments, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and cash flows from operations.
 
Key Transactions in 2007
 
We completed the following key transactions during the year ended December 31, 2007:
 
 
Windrose Medical Properties Trust Merger
 
As discussed in our Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2006, we completed our merger with Windrose Medical Properties Trust on December 20, 2006. These operations are the principal component of our medical office building segment. The results of operations for this segment represent the primary change in our consolidated results of operations from the prior year. Allocation of the purchase price has been finalized. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Form 10-K/A
 
Rendina/Paramount Acquisition
 
In May 2007, we completed the acquisition of 17 medical office buildings and Paramount Real Estate Services, a property management company, from affiliates of Rendina Companies. The results of operations for these properties and Paramount have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. Allocation of the purchase price has been finalized. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties
 
We utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of our business. These indicators are discussed below and relate to operating performance, credit strength and concentration risk. Management uses these key performance indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results and in making operating decisions.
 
  We believe that net income available to common stockholders ("NICS") is the most appropriate earnings measure. Another useful supplemental measure of our operating performance includes funds from operations ("FFO"); however, this supplemental measure is not defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principals ("U.S. GAAP"). Please refer to the section entitled "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for further discussion of FFO and for a reconciliation of FFO to NICS. This earnings measure and its relative per share amount is widely used by investors and analysts in the valuation, comparison and investment recommendations of REITs. The following table reflects the recent historical trends of our operating performance measures (in thousands, except per share data):
Operating Performance.
 
 
  We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. Our leverage ratios include debt to book capitalization, debt to undepreciated book capitalization and debt to market capitalization. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to total debt. Our coverage ratios include interest coverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to service interest and fixed charges (interest plus preferred dividends and secured debt principal amortizations). We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain investment grade ratings with Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings. The coverage ratios are based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") which is discussed in further detail, and reconciled to net income, below in "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors, analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment recommendations and rating of companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends for our credit strength measures:
Credit Strength.
 
 
  We evaluate our concentration risk in terms of asset mix, investment mix, customer mix and geographic mix. Concentration risk is a valuable measure in understanding what portion of our investments could be at risk if certain sectors were to experience downturns. Asset mix measures the portion of our investments
Concentration Risk.
 
that are real property. In order to qualify as an equity REIT, at least 75% of our real estate investments must be real property whereby each property, which includes the land, buildings, improvements, intangibles and related rights, is owned by us and leased to an operator pursuant to a long-term operating lease. Investment mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our various property types. Customer mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our top five customers. Geographic mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our top five states. The following table reflects our recent historical trends of concentration risk:
 
 
We evaluate our key performance indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical trends are indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be achieved and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Management regularly monitors various economic and other factors to develop strategic and tactical plans designed to improve performance and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and to appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-specific trends. Please refer to "Item 1A  Risk Factors" in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for further discussion.
 
Portfolio Update
 
Investment Properties
 
Payment coverage of the operators in our investment property portfolio continues to improve. Our overall payment coverage is at 1.99 times and represents an increase of six basis point from 2006 and seven basis points from 2005. The following table reflects our recent historical trends of portfolio coverage. Coverage data reflects the 12 months ended for the periods presented. CBMF represents the ratio of our customers' earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees to contractual rent or interest due us. CAMF represents the
 
ratio of our customers' earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and rent (but after imputed management fees) to contractual rent or interest due us.
 
 
Medical Office Buildings
 
The primary performance measure for our medical office buildings is net operating income ("NOI") as discussed below in Non-GAAP Financial Measures. At December 31, 2007, we had 121 medical office buildings. Our consolidated financial results for the year ended December 31, 2006 include twelve days of revenues and expenses due to the Windrose merger completed on December 20, 2006. The following table summarizes and reconciles our net operating income for the periods indicated (in thousands):
 
 
Corporate Governance
 
Maintaining investor confidence and trust has become increasingly important in today's business environment. Our Board of Directors and management are strongly committed to policies and procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our corporate governance guidelines provide the framework for our business operations and emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder value while meeting all applicable legal requirements. The Board of Directors adopted and annually reviews its Corporate Governance Guidelines. These guidelines meet the listing standards adopted by the New York Stock Exchange and are available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com and from us upon written request sent to the Senior Vice President  Administration and Corporate Secretary, Health Care REIT, Inc., One SeaGate, Suite 1500, P.O. Box 1475, Toledo, Ohio,
43603-1475.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
Sources and Uses of Cash
 
Our primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, public and private offerings of debt and equity securities, proceeds from the sales of real property and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property acquisitions, loan advances and general and administrative expenses. These sources and uses of cash are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are discussed in further detail below.
 
The following is a summary of our sources and uses of cash flows (dollars in thousands):
 
 
  The increases in net cash provided from operating activities are primarily attributable to increases in net income, excluding depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation and net straight-line rental income. Net income and the provisions for depreciation and amortization increased primarily as a result of net new investments in properties owned by us. See the discussion of investing activities below for additional details. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our net income and provisions for depreciation and amortization will change accordingly.
Operating Activities.
 
The following is a summary of our straight-line rent (dollars in thousands):
 
 
Gross straight-line rental income represents the non-cash difference between contractual cash rent due and the average rent recognized pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.  ("SFAS 13") for leases with fixed rental escalators, net of collectibility reserves, if any. This amount is positive in the first half of a lease term (but declining every year due to annual increases in cash rent due) and is negative in the second half of a lease term. The increase in gross straight-line rental income is primarily due to an increase in the number of our leases with fixed annual increases resulting primarily from the Windrose merger completed in December 2006 and the Rendina/Paramount acquisition completed in May 2007. The change in prepaid rent cash receipts is primarily attributable to cash received upon renegotiation of a lease in connection to the acquisition of Commonwealth Communities Holdings LLC by Kindred Healthcare, Inc. in February 2006.
13 Accounting for Leases
 
  The changes in net cash used in investing activities are primarily attributable to the Windrose merger and net changes in loans receivable and real property investments. The following is a summary of our investment and disposition activities (dollars in thousands):
Investing Activities.
 
 
 
 
The investment in Windrose during 2006 primarily represented $183,139,000 of cash provided to Windrose to extinguish secured debt and cash used to pay advisory fees, lender consents and other merger-related costs totaling $15,023,000. These cash uses were offset by $15,591,000 of cash assumed from Windrose on the merger effective
 
date. The investment in Rendina/Paramount primarily represented cash consideration of $141,967,000 offset by $4,000 of cash assumed from Paramount.
 
  The changes in net cash provided from or used in financing activities are primarily attributable to changes related to our debt, common stock issuances, preferred stock issuances and cash distributions to stockholders.
Financing Activities.
 
The following is a summary of our senior unsecured note issuances (dollars in thousands):
 
 
In May 2005, we redeemed all of our outstanding $50,000,000 8.17% senior unsecured notes due March 2006, we completed a public tender offer for $57,670,000 of our outstanding $100,000,000 7.625% senior unsecured notes due March 2008, and we redeemed $122,500,000 of our outstanding $175,000,000 7.5% senior unsecured notes due August 2007. In connection with that extinguishment, we recorded a $20,662,000 loss on extinguishment of debt. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we paid off mortgages with outstanding balances of $72,309,000 and average interest rates of 7.481%. In August 2007, we repaid $52,500,000 of 7.5% senior unsecured notes at maturity. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we paid off mortgages with outstanding balances of $29,797,000 and average interest rates of 7.338%. In November 2007, we repurchased $50,000,000 liquidation amount of preferred securities of a subsidiary trust and, in December 2007, obtained the satisfaction and discharge of a related $51,000,000 liability of an operating partnership and recorded a $1,081,000 gain on extinguishment of debt.
 
The change in common stock is primarily attributable to public issuances and common stock issuances related to our dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan ("DRIP"). The remaining difference in common stock issuances is primarily due to issuances pursuant to stock incentive plans.
 
The following is a summary of our common stock issuances (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (including 100% of capital gains) to our stockholders. The increases in dividends are primarily attributable to increases in outstanding common and preferred stock shares as discussed above and increases in our annual
 
common stock dividend per share and the payment of a prorated dividend of $0.3409 in December 2006 in conjunction with the Windrose merger.
 
The following is a summary of our dividend payments (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of certain insurance companies that provide workers' compensation insurance to one of our tenants. Our obligation to provide the letter of credit terminates in 2009. At December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of credit was $2,350,000.
 
We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of certain insurance companies that provide liability and property insurance to one of our tenants. Our obligation to provide the letter of credit terminates in 2013. At December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of credit was $1,000,000.
 
We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of a village in Illinois that secures the completion and installation of certain public improvements by one of our tenants in connection with the development of a facility. Our obligation to provide the letter of credit terminates in 2010. At December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of credit was $679,320.
 
We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of a municipality in Pennsylvania in connection with the completion and installation of certain facility improvements by one of our subsidiaries. The improvements are expected to be completed in 2009. At December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of credit was $485,810.
 
We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates, our perception of the future volatility of interest rates and our relative levels of variable rate debt and variable rate investments. As of December 31, 2007, we participated in two forward-starting interest rate swap agreements related to our debt arrangements. Our interest rate swaps are discussed below in "Results of Operations."
 
Contractual Obligations
 
The following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007 (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 2007, we had an unsecured credit arrangement with a consortium of seventeen banks providing for a revolving line of credit in the amount of $1,150,000,000, which is scheduled to expire on August 5, 2011 (with the ability to extend for one year at our discretion if we are in compliance with all covenants). Borrowings under the agreement are subject to interest payable in periods no longer than three months at either the agent bank's prime rate of interest or the applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (4.6% at December 31, 2007). The applicable margin is based on our ratings with Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and was 0.6% at December 31, 2007. In addition, we pay a facility fee annually to each bank based on the bank's commitment under the revolving credit facility. The facility fee depends on our ratings with Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and was 0.15% at December 31, 2007. We also pay an annual agent's fee of $50,000. Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement. At December 31, 2007, we had $307,000,000 outstanding under the unsecured line of credit arrangement and estimated total contractual interest obligations of $61,329,000. Contractual interest obligations are estimated based on the assumption that the balance of $307,000,000 at December 31, 2007 is constant until maturity at interest rates in effect at December 31, 2007.
 
We have $1,887,330,000 of senior unsecured notes principal outstanding with fixed annual interest rates ranging from 4.75% to 8.0%, payable semi-annually. Total contractual interest obligations on senior unsecured notes totaled $1,171,437,000 at December 31, 2007. Additionally, we have mortgage loans with total outstanding principal of $506,973,000, collateralized by owned properties, with fixed annual interest rates ranging from 4.89% to 8.21%, payable monthly. The carrying values of the properties securing the mortgage loans totaled $969,543,000 at December 31, 2007. Total contractual interest obligations on mortgage loans totaled $186,974,000 at December 31, 2007.
 
At December 31, 2007, we had operating lease obligations of $54,993,000 relating primarily to ground leases at certain of our properties and office space leases.
 
Purchase obligations are comprised of unfunded construction commitments and contingent purchase obligations. At December 31, 2007, we had outstanding construction financings of $313,709,000 for leased properties and were committed to providing additional financing of approximately $800,697,000 to complete construction. At December 31, 2007, we had contingent purchase obligations totaling $25,621,000. These contingent purchase obligations primarily relate to deferred acquisition fundings and capital improvements. Deferred acquisition fundings are contingent upon a tenant satisfying certain conditions in the lease. Upon funding, amounts due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.
 
Other long-term liabilities relate to our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP") and certain non-compete agreements. We have a SERP, a non-qualified defined benefit pension plan, which provides certain
 
executive officers with supplemental deferred retirement benefits. The SERP provides an opportunity for participants to receive retirement benefits that cannot be paid under our tax-qualified plans because of the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Benefits are based on compensation and length of service and the SERP is unfunded. No contributions by the Company are anticipated for the 2008 fiscal year. Benefit payments are expected to total $3,290,000 during the next five fiscal years and no benefit payments are expected to occur during the succeeding five fiscal years. We use a December 31 measurement date for the SERP. The accrued liability on our balance sheet for the SERP was $1,915,000 at December 31, 2007 ($1,597,000 at December 31, 2006).
 
In connection with the Windrose merger, we entered into consulting agreements with Fred S. Klipsch and Frederick L. Farrar, which expire in December 2008 and may be terminated at any time by the consultant. Each consultant has agreed not to compete with the Company for a period of two years following termination or expiration of the agreement. In exchange for complying with the covenant not to compete, Messers. Klipsch and Farrar will receive eight quarterly payments of $75,000 and $37,500, respectively, with the first payment to be made on the date of termination or expiration of the agreement.
 
Capital Structure
 
As of December 31, 2007, we had stockholders' equity of $2,404,356,000 and a total outstanding debt balance of $2,704,668,000, which represents a debt to total book capitalization ratio of 53%. Our ratio of debt to market capitalization was 39% at December 31, 2007. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, our interest coverage ratio was 2.91 to 1.00. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, our fixed charge coverage ratio was 2.38 to 1.00. Also, at December 31, 2007, we had $30,269,000 of cash and cash equivalents and $843,000,000 of available borrowing capacity under our unsecured line of credit arrangement.
 
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements. None of our debt agreements contain provisions for acceleration which could be triggered by our debt ratings with Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services. However, under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, these ratings on our senior unsecured notes are used to determine the fees and interest payable.
 
As of February 15, 2008, our senior unsecured notes were rated Baa2 (stable), BBB- (positive) and BBB (stable) by Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings, respectively. We plan to manage the company to maintain investment grade status with a capital structure consistent with our current profile. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the noted rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity financial condition.
and/or
 
On May 12, 2006, we filed an open-ended automatic or "universal" shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering an indeterminate amount of future offerings of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and units. As of February 15, 2008, we had an effective registration statement on file in connection with our enhanced DRIP program under which we may issue up to 10,760,247 shares of common stock. As of February 15, 2008, 9,481,345 shares of common stock remained available for issuance under this registration statement. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate issuing securities under our registration statements to invest in additional properties and to repay borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangement.
 
Results of Operations
 
 
The components of the changes in revenues, expenses and other items are discussed in detail below. The following is a summary of certain items that impact the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007:
 
 
The following is a summary of certain items that impact the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006:
 
 
The following is a summary of certain items that impact the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005:
 
 
 
The increase in fully diluted average common shares outstanding is primarily the result of the Windrose merger, public and private common stock offerings and common stock issuances pursuant to our DRIP. The following table represents the changes in outstanding common stock for the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2007 (in thousands):
 
 
Revenues were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):
 
 
The increase in gross revenues is primarily attributable to increased rental income resulting from the acquisitions of new properties from which we receive rent. See the discussion of investing activities in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" above for further information. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant's properties. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If gross operating revenues at our facilities the Consumer Price Index do not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to increase. Sales of real property would offset revenue increases and, to the extent that they exceed new acquisitions, could result in decreased revenues. Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income.
and/or
and/or
 
Interest income decreased in 2006 primarily due to recognition of additional interest income of approximately $4,523,000 in 2005. The additional interest income related to the payoffs of loans that were either on non-accrual or partial accrual and all contractual interest was received from the borrowers. Interest income increased in 2007 primarily due to an increase in loans receivable.
 
Expenses were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):
 
 
The increase in total expenses is primarily attributable to increases in interest expense, property operating expenses, the provisions for depreciation and amortization and general and administrative expenses. The increases in interest expense are primarily due to higher average borrowings and changes in the amount of capitalized interest offsetting interest expense. If we borrow under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, issue additional senior unsecured notes or assume additional secured debt, our interest expense will increase.
 
The following is a summary of our interest expense (dollars in thousands):
 
 
The change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to the net effect and timing of issuances and extinguishments. In May 2005, we redeemed all of our outstanding $50,000,000 8.17% senior unsecured notes due March 2006, we completed a public tender offer for $57,670,000 of our outstanding $100,000,000 7.625% senior unsecured notes due March 2008, and we redeemed $122,500,000 of our outstanding $175,000,000 7.5% senior unsecured notes due August 2007. In connection with that extinguishment, we recorded a $20,662,000 loss on
 
extinguishment of debt. In August 2007, we repaid $52,500,000 of 7.5% senior unsecured notes at maturity. The following is a summary of our senior unsecured notes activity (dollars in thousands):
 
 
The change in interest expense on secured debt is due to the net effect and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our secured debt activity (dollars in thousands):
 
 
The change in interest expense on unsecured lines of credit arrangements is due primarily to changes in average amounts outstanding and fluctuating variable interest rates. The following is a summary of our unsecured lines of credit arrangements (dollars in thousands):
 
 
At December 31, 2006, we had $51,000,000 of trust preferred liability principal outstanding with a fixed annual interest rate of 7.22%. On November 6, 2007, we purchased all $50,000,000 of the outstanding trust preferred securities at par for the purpose of unwinding this financing arrangement and, in December 2007, surrendered these securities and the related $1,000,000 liquidation amount of common securities for cancellation, resulting in the satisfaction and discharge of this $51,000,000 liability. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a $1,081,000 gain on extinguishment of debt. Please see Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 
We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used to finance the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the borrowings outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. Capitalized interest for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 totaled $665,000, $4,470,000 and $12,526,000, respectively.
 
On May 6, 2004, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements (the "2004 Swaps") for a total notional amount of $100,000,000 to hedge changes in fair value attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate of $100,000,000 of fixed rate debt with a maturity date of November 15, 2013. The 2004 Swaps were treated as fair-
 
value hedges for accounting purposes and we utilized the short-cut method to assess effectiveness. The 2004 Swaps were with highly rated counterparties in which we received a fixed rate of 6.0% and paid a variable rate based on six-month LIBOR plus a spread. On September 12, 2007, we terminated the 2004 Swaps and we received a $2,125,000 cash settlement. The unamortized amount of this settlement at December 31, 2007 was $1,973,000 and is recorded as an adjustment to the hedged item. This amount will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the hedged debt using the effective interest method. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, we generated $972,000 of savings, $197,000 of losses and $89,000 of savings, respectively, related to the 2004 Swaps that were recorded as adjustments of interest expense.
 
On July 2, 2007, we entered into two forward-starting interest rate swaps, with an aggregate notional amount of $200,000,000 that were designated as cash flow hedges of the variability in forecasted interest payments attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate, on long-term fixed rate debt forecasted to be issued in 2007. The 2007 Swaps have the economic effect of fixing $200,000,000 of our debt at 4.913% for five years. The 2007 Swaps were settled on July 17, 2007, which was the date that the forecasted debt was priced. The cash settlement value of these contracts at July 17, 2007, was $733,000. This amount represented the effective portion of the hedges as there was no hedge ineffectiveness. Therefore, the $733,000 settlement value was deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") and will be amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method. The unamortized amount of AOCI related to these contracts at December 31, 2007 is $668,000. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we reclassified $65,000 out of AOCI as a reduction of interest expense.
 
On September 12, 2007, we entered into two forward-starting interest rate swaps (the "September 2007 Swaps") for a total notional amount of $250,000,000 to hedge 10 years of interest payments associated with a long-term borrowing that is expected to occur in 2008. The September 2007 Swaps each have an effective date of September 12, 2008 and a maturity date of September 12, 2018. We expect to settle the 2007 Swaps when the debt is priced. The September 2007 Swaps have the economic effect of fixing $250,000,000 of our future debt at 4.469% plus a credit spread for 10 years. The September 2007 Swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges and we expect the 2007 Swaps to be highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of interest payments on $250,000,000 of our future debt due to changes in the LIBOR swap rate. Therefore, effective changes in the fair value of the September 2007 Swaps will be recorded in AOCI and reclassified to interest expense when the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings (as interest payments are made on the expected debt issuance). The ineffective portion of the changes in fair value will be recorded directly in earnings. At December 31, 2007, the September 2007 Swaps were reported at their fair value of $7,990,000 and are included in other liabilities and AOCI.
 
As discussed in our Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2006, we completed our merger with Windrose Medical Properties Trust on December 20, 2006. These operations are the principal component of our property operating expenses from the date of acquisition. There was no similar activity in the prior periods. In addition to a full year of operations for the Windrose properties, we acquired 28 medical office buildings during the year ended December 31, 2007.
Form 10-K/A
 
Depreciation and amortization increased primarily as a result of additional investments in properties owned directly by us. See the discussion of investing activities in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" above for additional details. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change accordingly.
 
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues (including revenues from discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2007, were 7.64%, as compared with 8.26% and 5.89% for the same periods in 2006 and 2005. The increase from 2005 to 2006 is directly attributable to $5,213,000 of merger-related expenses and $1,287,000 of accelerated stock-based compensation expenses. The increase from 2006 to 2007 is primarily related to the Windrose merger completed on December 20, 2006, the Paramount acquisition completed in May 2007, $1,750,000 of acquisition finders' fees paid during the three months ended June 30, 2007 and costs associated with our initiatives to attract and retain appropriate personnel to achieve our business objectives. During the quarter ended June 30, 2007, we recorded $1,750,000 of one-time acquisition finders' fees paid to former Windrose management in connection with the closing of the Rendina/Paramount transaction. These fees relate to services rendered prior to the consummation of the Windrose merger in December 2006. Due to the recipients' current employment status with the company, the fees have been expensed as compensation rather than included in the purchase price of the acquisition, as is typical with such fees.
 
Loan expense represents the amortization of deferred loan costs incurred in connection with the issuance and amendments of debt. The change in loan expense is primarily due to costs associated with the issuance of $345,000,000 of senior unsecured convertible notes in November and December 2006, costs related to the assumption of secured debt in connection with the Windrose merger in December 2006, the issuance of $400,000,000 of senior unsecured convertible notes in July 2007 and costs associated with the extension and expansion of our unsecured line of credit in August 2007.
 
As a result of our quarterly evaluations, we concluded that the allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2006 remained appropriate as of December 31, 2007. The provision for loan losses is related to our critical accounting estimate for the allowance for loan losses and is discussed below in "Critical Accounting Policies."
 
Other items were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):
 
 
During the year ended December 31, 2007, we sold ten assisted living facilities, one independent living facility, seven skilled nursing facilities and one parcel of land with carrying values of $83,877,000 for a net gain of $14,437,000. At March 31, 2008, we had one skilled nursing facility held for sale. These properties generated $2,120,000 of income after deducting depreciation and interest expense from rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. All properties sold subsequent to January 1, 2005 through March 31, 2008 and attributable to assets held for sale at March 31, 2008 generated $619,000 and $4,131,000 of income after deducting depreciation and interest expense from rental revenue for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Please refer to Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion.
 
The increase in preferred dividends is primarily due to the increase in average outstanding preferred shares. The following is a summary of our preferred stock activity:
 
 
In conjunction with the acquisition of Windrose Medical Properties Trust in December 2006, we issued 2,100,000 shares of 7.5% Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, on or after June 30, 2010. Each Series G Preferred Share is convertible by the holder into our common stock at a conversion price of $34.93, equivalent to a conversion rate of 0.7157 common shares per Series G Preferred Share. These shares were recorded at $29.58 per share, which was deemed to be the fair value at the date of issuance. During the year ended December 31, 2007, certain holders of our Series G Preferred Stock converted 295,800 shares into 211,702 shares of our common stock, leaving 1,804,200 of such shares outstanding at December 31, 2007.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
We believe that net income available to common stockholders, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, we consider FFO to be a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.
 
In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 145 that requires gains and losses on extinguishment of debt to be classified as income or loss from continuing operations rather than as extraordinary items as previously required under Statement No. 4. We adopted the standard effective January 1, 2003. We have properly reflected the $21,484,000, or $0.39 per diluted share, of losses on extinguishment of debt for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the $1,081,000, or $0.01 per diluted share, of gains on extinguishment of debt for the year ended December 31, 2007. These amounts have not been added back for the calculations of FFO or EBITDA.
 
EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We believe that EBITDA, along with net income and cash flow provided from operating activities, is an important supplemental measure because it provides additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. Additionally, restrictive covenants in our debt arrangements contain financial ratios based on EBITDA. We primarily utilize EBITDA to measure our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest, secured debt principal amortization and preferred dividends.
 
FFO and EBITDA are financial measures that are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, FFO is utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. FFO and EBITDA do not represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, FFO and EBITDA, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies.
 
Net operating income ("NOI") is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties. We define NOI as rental revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property level operating expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, impairments, interest expense and discontinued operations. We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
 
The table below reflects the reconciliation of FFO to net income available to common stockholders, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. The provisions for depreciation and amortization includes provisions for depreciation and amortization from discontinued operations. Amounts are in thousands except for per share data.
 
 
The table below reflects the reconciliation of EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Interest expense and the provisions for depreciation and amortization includes discontinued operations. Tax expense represents income-based taxes. Amortization represents the amortization of deferred loan expenses. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA as adjusted below for items pursuant to covenant provisions of our unsecured lines of credit arrangements. Dollars are in thousands.
 
 
Critical Accounting Policies
 
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions. Management considers an accounting estimate or assumption critical if:
 
 
Management has discussed the development and selection of its critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented below relating
 
to them. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are appropriate and are not reasonably likely to change in the future. However, since these estimates require assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, they bear the risk of change. If actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity financial condition. Please refer to Note 1 of our audited consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact us. There were no material changes to these policies in 2007.
and/or
 
The following table presents information about our critical accounting policies, as well as the material assumptions used to develop each estimate:
 
 
 
Impact of Inflation
 
During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation rate. Additionally, our earnings are primarily long-term investments with fixed rates of return. These investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured notes and borrowings under our unsecured lines of credit arrangements. During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest rates, our ability to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs. Presuming the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not increase significantly, we believe that inflation will not impact the availability of equity and debt financing for us.
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Health Care REIT, Inc.
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Health Care REIT, Inc. as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in Item 15(a) (2) of the Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2007. These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
Form 10-K
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Health Care REIT, Inc. at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
 
As discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2006, the Company changed its method of accounting for stock-based compensation to conform to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment."
 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Health Care REIT, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 27, 2008 (not included herein) expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
 
Toledo, Ohio
February 27, 2008, except for Notes 16 and 18, as to which the date is June 25, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Industry
 
We are an equity real estate investment trust that invests across the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate including skilled nursing facilities, independent living facilities/continuing care retirement communities, assisted living facilities, hospitals, long-term acute care hospitals and medical office buildings.
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
The consolidated financial statements include our accounts, the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and the accounts of our majority owned and controlled joint ventures. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Revenue is recorded in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13, Accounting for Leases, and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, as amended ("SAB 104"). SAB 104 requires that revenue be recognized after four basic criteria are met. These four criteria include persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and determinable income and reasonably assured collectibility. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectibility risk. Substantially all of our operating leases contain either fixed or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectibility assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
 
Restricted Cash
 
Restricted cash, a component of other assets, primarily consists of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments for real estate taxes, insurance, tenant and capital improvements. Additionally, restricted cash includes amounts held in escrow relating to acquisitions we are entitled to receive over a period of time as outlined in the escrow agreement. Restricted cash balances as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 were $17,575,000 and $9,972,000, respectively.
 
Real Estate Loans Receivable
 
Real estate loans receivable consist of mortgage loans and other real estate loans. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectibility risks. The loans are primarily collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership interest in, the related properties, corporate guaranties personal guaranties.
and/or
 
Allowance for Loan Losses
 
The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including general economic conditions and estimated collectibility of loan payments. We evaluate the collectibility of our loans
 
 
 
 
receivable based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of the underlying collateral. If such factors indicate that there is greater risk of loan charge-offs, additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the contractual terms of the original loan agreement. Consistent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. At December 31, 2007, we had loans with outstanding balances of $799,000 on non-accrual status ($10,529,000 at December 31, 2006). To the extent circumstances improve and the risk of collectibility is diminished, we will return these loans to full accrual status. While a loan is on non-accrual status, any cash receipts are applied against the outstanding principal balance.
 
Real Property Owned
 
Real property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of construction period interest. The cost of real property acquired is allocated to net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their respective fair values in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations. Substantially all of the properties owned by us are leased under operating leases and are recorded at cost. These properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for improvements.
 
The remaining purchase price is allocated among identifiable intangible assets primarily consisting of the above or below market component of in-place leases and the value of in-place leases. The value allocable to the above or below market component of the acquired in-place lease is determined based upon the present value (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the acquired leases) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining term, and (ii) management's estimate of the amounts that would be paid using fair market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated to above market leases are included in acquired lease intangibles and below market leases are included in other liabilities in the balance sheet and are amortized to rental income over the remaining terms of the respective leases.
 
The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values and customer relationship values based on management's evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant's lease and the Company's overall relationship with that respective tenant. Characteristics considered by management in allocating these values include the nature and extent of the Company's existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenant's credit quality and expectations of lease renewals, among other factors. The estimated aggregate amortization expense for acquired lease intangibles is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 28.4 years and is as follows for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands):
 
 
The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to determine if facts and circumstances suggest that the assets may be impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider external factors relating to each asset. If these external factors and the projected undiscounted cash
 
 
 
 
flows of the asset over the remaining depreciation period indicate that the asset will not be recoverable, the carrying value may be reduced to the estimated fair market value.
 
Capitalization of Construction Period Interest
 
We capitalize interest costs associated with funds used to finance the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest which approximates our cost of financing. We capitalized interest costs of $12,526,000, $4,470,000, and $665,000 during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to construction of real property owned by us. Our interest expense reflected in the consolidated statements of income has been reduced by the amounts capitalized.
 
Deferred Loan Expenses
 
Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection with the issuance, assumption and amendments of debt arrangements. We amortize these costs over the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest method.
 
Equity Investments
 
Equity investments at December 31, 2007 consist of an investment in a public company that has a readily determinable fair market value. We classify this equity investment as available-for-sale and, accordingly, record this investment at its fair market value with unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of stockholders' equity. This investment represents a minimal ownership interest in the company. Equity investments at December 31, 2006 consisted of investments in private companies where we did not have the ability to exercise influence and were accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method of accounting, investments in private companies are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, distributions of earnings and additional investments. These investments represented a minimal ownership interest in these companies. Additionally, in connection with the Windrose merger, we assumed a $1,000,000 investment in an unconsolidated subsidiary that holds trust preferred securities and is accounted for under the cost method.
 
Segment Reporting
 
We report consolidated financial statements in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 131, Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. Segments are based on our method of internal reporting which classifies operations by leasing activities. Our segments include investment properties and medical office buildings. See Note 18 for additional information.
 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
 
Accumulated other comprehensive income includes amounts related to our cash flow hedge activity, unrealized gains or losses on our equity investments and unrecognized actuarial gains/losses from the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  An amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) on December 31, 2006.
 
Fair Value of Derivative Instruments
 
We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We may elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. Derivatives are recorded at fair market value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.
 
On May 6, 2004, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements (the "2004 Swaps") for a total notional amount of $100,000,000 to hedge changes in fair value attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate of $100,000,000 of fixed rate debt with a maturity date of November 15, 2013. The 2004 Swaps were treated as fair-
 
 
 
 
value hedges for accounting purposes and we utilized the short-cut method to assess effectiveness. The 2004 Swaps were with highly rated counterparties in which we received a fixed rate of 6.0% and paid a variable rate based on six-month LIBOR plus a spread. On September 12, 2007, we terminated the 2004 Swaps and we received a $2,125,000 cash settlement. The unamortized amount of this settlement at December 31, 2007 was $1,973,000 and is recorded as an adjustment to the hedged item. This amount will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the hedged debt using the effective interest method. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we generated $89,000 of savings related to the 2004 Swaps that was recorded as a reduction of interest expense. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we incurred $197,000 of losses related to the 2004 Swaps that was recorded as an addition to interest expense. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we generated $972,000 of savings related to the 2004 Swaps that was recorded as a reduction of interest expense.
 
On July 2, 2007, we entered into two forward-starting interest rate swaps (the "July 2007 Swaps"), with an aggregate notional amount of $200,000,000 that were designated as cash flow hedges of the variability in forecasted interest payments attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate, on long-term fixed rate debt forecasted to be issued in 2007. The July 2007 Swaps have the economic effect of fixing $200,000,000 of our debt at 4.913% for five years. The July 2007 Swaps were settled on July 17, 2007, which was the date that the forecasted debt was priced. The cash settlement value of these contracts at July 17, 2007, was $733,000. This amount represented the effective portion of the hedges as there was no hedge ineffectiveness. Therefore, the $733,000 settlement value was deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") and will be amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method. The unamortized amount of AOCI related to these contracts at December 31, 2007 is $668,000. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we reclassified $65,000 out of AOCI as a reduction of interest expense.
 
On September 12, 2007, we entered into two forward-starting interest rate swaps (the "September 2007 Swaps") for a total notional amount of $250,000,000 to hedge 10 years of interest payments associated with a long-term borrowing that is expected to occur in 2008. The September 2007 Swaps each have an effective date of September 12, 2008 and a maturity date of September 12, 2018. We expect to settle the 2007 Swaps when the debt is priced. The September 2007 Swaps have the economic effect of fixing $250,000,000 of our future debt at 4.469% plus a credit spread for 10 years. The September 2007 Swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges and we expect the 2007 Swaps to be highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of interest payments on $250,000,000 of our future debt due to changes in the LIBOR swap rate. Therefore, effective changes in the fair value of the September 2007 Swaps will be recorded in AOCI and reclassified to interest expense when the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings (as interest payments are made on the expected debt issuance). The ineffective portion of the changes in fair value will be recorded directly in earnings. At December 31, 2007, the September 2007 Swaps were reported at their fair value of $7,990,000 and are included in other liabilities and AOCI.
 
The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair values for our derivatives are estimated by a third party consultant, which utilizes pricing models that consider forward yield curves and discount rates. Such amounts and the recognition of such amounts are subject to significant estimates that may change in the future.
 
Earnings Per Share
 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the period adjusted for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings per share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that the number of shares is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.
 
Federal Income Tax
 
No provision has been made for federal income taxes since we have elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and we believe that we have met the
 
 
 
 
requirements for qualification as such for each taxable year. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local income taxes. See Note 12.
 
New Accounting Standards
 
On January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. The Interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The Interpretation prescribes guidance for recognizing, measuring, reporting and disclosing a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The adoption of the Interpretation did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.
 
In September 2006, the FASB also issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ("SFAS 157"), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 will be effective for fiscal year 2008. Adoption of SFAS 157 is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, although additional disclosures may be required.
 
In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities ("SFAS 159"), which permits companies to elect to measure certain eligible items at fair value. Subsequent unrealized gains and losses on those items will be reported in earnings. Upfront costs and fees related to those items will be reported in earnings as incurred and not deferred. SFAS 159 will be effective for fiscal year 2008. If a company elects to apply the provisions of SFAS 159 to eligible items existing at that date, the effect of the remeasurement to fair value will be reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. Retrospective application will not be permitted. We are currently assessing whether we will elect to use the fair value option for any eligible items.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141(R), Business Combinations ("SFAS 141(R)") and Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 ("SFAS 160"). SFAS 141(R) will change how business acquisitions are accounted for and will impact financial statements both on the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. SFAS 160 will change the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. Early adoption is prohibited for both standards. The provisions of SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160, effective on January 1, 2009, are to be applied prospectively.
 
Reclassifications
 
Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 
 
Windrose Medical Properties Trust Merger
 
As discussed in our Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2006, we completed our merger with Windrose Medical Properties Trust on December 20, 2006. These operations are the principal component of our medical office building segment (see Note 18). During the year ended December 31, 2007, we finalized the purchase price allocation for the Windrose merger, as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations. The updated purchase price allocation reflects reallocations between identifiable tangible and intangible assets. However, these adjustments did not have a significant impact on our consolidated results of operations.
Form 10-K/A
 
 
 
 
The following table presents the updated purchase price calculation and the allocation to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based upon their estimated fair values (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Rendina/Paramount Acquisition
 
In May 2007, we completed the acquisition of 17 medical office buildings and Paramount Real Estate Services, a property management company, from affiliates of Rendina Companies. The results of operations for these properties and Paramount have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. Allocation of the purchase price has been finalized. The following table presents the updated purchase price calculation and the allocation to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based upon their estimated fair values (in thousands):
 
 
 
The following is a summary of real estate loans receivable (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
The following is a summary of mortgage loans at December 31, 2007:
 
 
 
The following is a summary of the allowance for loan losses (in thousands):
 
 
The following is a summary of our loan impairments (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes certain information about our real property owned as of December 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 2007, future minimum lease payments receivable under operating leases are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
We purchased $0, $11,204,000 and $3,908,000 of real property that had previously been financed by the Company with loans in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Additionally, $132,028,000, $24,330,000 and $29,238,000 of completed construction projects were placed in service and began earning rent during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We acquired properties which included the assumption of mortgages totaling $166,188,000, $274,473,000 and $22,309,000 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Certain of our acquisitions included deferred acquisition payments totaling $0, $2,000,000 and $18,125,000 for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These non-cash activities are appropriately not reflected in the accompanying statements of cash flows. See the accompanying statement of cash flows for non-cash investing activity related to the Windrose merger.
 
At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we had $0, $14,796,000 and $11,912,000, respectively, related to assets held for sale. See Note 16 for further discussion of discontinued operations.
 
 
As of December 31, 2007, long-term care facilities, which include skilled nursing, independent living/continuing care retirement communities and assisted living facilities, comprised 68% (72% at December 31, 2006) of our real estate investments and were located in 38 states. The following table summarizes certain information about our customer concentration as of December 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 2007, we had an unsecured credit arrangement with a consortium of seventeen banks providing for a revolving line of credit in the amount of $1,150,000,000, which is scheduled to expire on August 5, 2011 (with the ability to extend for one year at our discretion if we are in compliance with all covenants). Borrowings under the agreement are subject to interest payable in periods no longer than three months at either the agent bank's prime rate of interest or the applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (4.6% at December 31, 2007). The applicable margin is based on our ratings with Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and was 0.6% at December 31, 2007. In addition, we pay a facility fee annually to each bank based on the bank's commitment under the revolving credit facility. The facility fee depends on our ratings with Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and was 0.15% at December 31, 2007. We also pay an annual agent's fee of $50,000. Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement.
 
The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the unsecured lines of credit arrangements (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
We have $1,890,192,000 of senior unsecured notes with annual interest rates ranging from 4.75% to 8.00%. The carrying amounts of the senior unsecured notes represent the par value of $1,887,330,000 adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts and other basis adjustments related to hedging the debt with derivative instruments. See Note 1 for further discussion regarding derivative instruments.
 
In July 2007, we issued $400,000,000 of 4.75% senior unsecured convertible notes due July 2027, generating net proceeds of $388,943,000. The notes will be convertible, in certain circumstances, into cash and, if applicable,
 
 
 
 
shares of our common stock at an initial conversion rate of 20.0000 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $50.00 per share. In general, upon conversion, the holder of each note would receive, in respect of the conversion value of such note, cash up to the principal amount of such note and common stock for the note's conversion value in excess of such principal amount.
 
We have mortgage loans totaling $507,476,000, collateralized by owned properties, with annual interest rates ranging from 4.89% to 8.21%. The carrying amounts of the mortgages represent the par value of $506,973,000 adjusted for any unamortized fair value adjustments. The carrying values of the properties securing the mortgage loans totaled $969,543,000 at December 31, 2007.
 
In November 2007, we repurchased $50,000,000 in aggregate liquidation amount of preferred securities that had been issued by Windrose Capital Trust  I, a subsidiary trust, on March 24, 2006. In December 2007, we surrendered these securities for cancellation along with $1,000,000 liquidation amount of common securities of this trust, which resulted in the satisfaction and discharge in 2007 of $51,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of junior subordinated notes issued by an operating partnership due March 30, 2036. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a $1,081,000 gain on extinguishment of debt.
 
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions.
 
At December 31, 2007, the annual principal payments on these debt obligations are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
Our 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan authorizes up to 2,200,000 shares of common stock to be issued at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The 2005 Plan replaced the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan and the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors. The options granted to officers and key salaried employees under the 1995 Plan continue to vest through 2016 and expire ten years from the date of grant. Our non-employee directors, officers and key salaried employees are eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan. The 2005 Plan allows for the issuance of, among other things, stock options, restricted stock, deferred stock units and dividend equivalent rights.
 
Vesting periods for options, deferred stock units and restricted shares generally range from three years for non-employee directors to five years for officers and key employees. Options expire ten years from the date of the grant. We granted 223,000, 98,000 and 85,000 restricted shares during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, including 11,000, 13,000 and 16,000 shares to non-employee directors in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Expense, which is recognized as the shares vest based on the market value at the date of the award, totaled $7,050,000, $6,980,000 and $2,948,000, in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
 
 
 
Option Award Activity
 
The following table summarizes information about stock option activity for the periods indicated (shares in thousands):
 
 
Option Valuation Assumptions
 
The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2007 (options in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
The aggregate intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the underlying options and the quoted price of our common stock for the options that were in-the-money at December 31, 2007. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised under our stock incentive plans was $6,600,000, $3,140,000 and $4,705,000, respectively, determined as of the date of option exercise. Cash received from option exercises under our stock incentive plans for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $17,775,000, $4,872,000 and $8,690,000.
 
As of December 31, 2007, there was approximately $2,524,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options granted under our stock incentive plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of three years. As of December 31, 2007, there was approximately $11,146,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock granted under our stock incentive plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of three years.
 
The following table summarizes information about non-vested stock incentive awards as of December 31, 2007 and changes for the year ended December 31, 2007:
 
 
We adopted the fair value-based method of accounting for share-based payments effective January 1, 2003 using the prospective method described in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure. Currently, we use the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to estimate the value of stock option grants and expect to continue to use this acceptable option valuation model. Because we adopted Statement No. 123 using the prospective transition method (which applied only to awards granted, modified or settled after the adoption date of Statement No. 123), compensation cost for some previously granted awards that were not recognized under Statement No. 123 will now be recognized effective with the adoption of Statement No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006. In addition, we previously amortized compensation cost for share-based payments to the date that the awards became fully vested or to the expected retirement date, if sooner. Effective with the adoption of Statement No. 123(R), we began recognizing compensation cost to the date the awards become fully vested or to the retirement eligible date, if sooner. Compensation cost totaled $7,050,000 and $6,980,000 for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
 
 
 
The following table illustrates the effect on net income available to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2005 if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of Statement 123 to stock-based compensation for options granted since 1995 but prior to adoption at January 1, 2003 (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
 
Other equity consists of the following (in thousands):
 
 
Other equity consists of accumulated option compensation expense which represents the amount of amortized compensation costs related to stock options awarded to employees and directors subsequent to January 1, 2003. Expense, which is recognized as the options vest based on the market value at the date of the award, totaled $1,106,000, $1,066,000 and $312,000 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
Unamortized restricted stock represented the unamortized value of restricted stock granted to employees and non-employee directors prior to January 1, 2003. Expense related to these grants, which is recognized as the shares vest based on the market value at the date of the award, totaled $521,000 and $728,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
In July 2003, we closed a public offering of 4,000,000 shares of 7.875% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, on or after July 9, 2008.
 
In September 2003, we issued 1,060,000 shares of 6% Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock as partial consideration for an acquisition of assets by the Company, with the shares valued at $26,500,000 for such purposes. The shares were issued to Southern Assisted Living, Inc. and certain of its stockholders without registration in reliance upon the federal statutory exemption of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, on or after August 15, 2008. The preferred shares are convertible into common stock at a conversion price of $32.66 per share at any time. During the year ended December 31, 2005, certain holders of our Series E Preferred Stock converted 275,056 shares into 210,541 shares of our common stock, leaving 74,989 of such shares outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
In September 2004, we closed a public offering of 7,000,000 shares of 7.625% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, on or after September 14, 2009.
 
In conjunction with the acquisition of Windrose Medical Properties Trust in December 2006, we issued 2,100,000 shares of 7.5% Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, on or after June 30, 2010. Each Series G Preferred Share is convertible by the holder into our common stock at a conversion price of $34.93, equivalent to a conversion rate of 0.7157 common shares per Series G Preferred Share. The Series G Preferred Shares require cumulative distributions. During the year ended December 31, 2007, certain holders of our Series G Preferred Stock converted 295,800 shares into 211,702 shares of our common stock, leaving 1,804,200 of such shares outstanding at December 31, 2007.
 
 
To qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, 90% of taxable income (including 100% of capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders. Real estate investment trusts that do not distribute a certain amount of current year taxable income in the current year are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The main differences between undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and financial statement purposes are the recognition of straight-line rent for reporting purposes, differing useful lives and depreciation and amortization methods for real property and the provision for loan losses for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes.
 
Cash distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of certain insurance companies that provide workers' compensation insurance to one of our tenants. Our obligation to provide the letter of credit terminates in 2009. At December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of credit was $2,350,000.
 
We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of certain insurance companies that provide liability and property insurance to one of our tenants. Our obligation to provide the letter of credit terminates in 2013. At December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of credit was $1,000,000.
 
We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of a village in Illinois that secures the completion and installation of certain public improvements by one of our tenants in connection with the development of a facility. Our obligation to provide the letter of credit terminates in 2010. At December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of credit was $679,320.
 
We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of a municipality in Pennsylvania in connection with the completion and installation of certain facility improvements by one of our subsidiaries. The improvements are expected to be completed in 2009. At December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of credit was $485,810.
 
At December 31, 2007, we had outstanding construction financings of $313,709,000 for leased properties and were committed to providing additional financing of approximately $800,697,000 to complete construction. At December 31, 2007, we had contingent purchase obligations totaling $25,621,000. These contingent purchase obligations primarily relate to deferred acquisition fundings and capital improvements. Deferred acquisition fundings are contingent upon an operator satisfying certain conditions such as payment coverage and value tests. Amounts due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.
 
At December 31, 2007, we had operating lease obligations of $54,993,000 relating to certain ground leases and Company office space. We incurred rental expense relating to our Company office space of $678,000, $939,000 and $283,000 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Regarding the property leases, we have sublease agreements with certain of our operators that require the operators to reimburse us for our monthly operating lease obligations. At December 31, 2007, aggregate future minimum rentals to be received under these noncancelable subleases totaled $12,756,000.
 
At December 31, 2007, future minimum lease payments due under operating leases are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
The diluted earnings per share calculation excludes the dilutive effect of 123,000, 0 and 112,000 options for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, because the exercise price was greater than the average market price. The Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock was not included in the calculations for 2007, 2006 and 2005 as the effect of the conversions was anti-dilutive. The $345,000,000 Convertible Senior Notes due December 2026 and the Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock were not included in the calculation for 2007 and 2006 as the effect of the conversion was anti-dilutive. The $400,000,000 Convertible Senior Notes due July 2027 were not included in the calculation for 2007 as the effect of the conversion was anti-dilutive.
 
 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value.
 
  The fair value of mortgage loans and other real estate loans receivable is generally estimated by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities.
Mortgage Loans and Other Real Estate Loan Receivable
 
  The carrying amount approximates fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
  Equity investments are recorded at their fair market value.
Equity Investments
 
  The carrying amount of the unsecured line of credit arrangement approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.
Borrowings Under Unsecured Lines of Credit Arrangements
 
  The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable was estimated based on publicly available trading prices.
Senior Unsecured Notes
 
  The fair value of all secured debt is estimated by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities.
Secured Debt
 
 
 
 
  Our interest rate swap agreements are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair market value. Fair market value is estimated by a third party consultant, which utilizes pricing models that consider forward yield curves and discount rates.
Interest Rate Swap Agreements
 
The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we sold properties with carrying values of $83,877,000, $75,789,000 and $88,098,000 for net gains of $14,437,000, $1,267,000 and $3,227,000, respectively. At March 31, 2008, we had one skilled nursing facility held for sale. In accordance with Statement No. 144, we have reclassified the income and expenses attributable to these properties to discontinued operations. Expenses include an allocation of interest expense based on property carrying values and our weighted average cost of debt. The following illustrates the reclassification impact of Statement No. 144 as a result of classifying the properties as discontinued operations (in thousands):
 
 
 
Under the retirement plan and trust (the "401(k) Plan"), eligible employees may make contributions, and we may make matching contributions and a profit sharing contribution. Our contributions to the 401(k) Plan totaled $441,000, $413,000 and $337,000 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
 
 
 
We have a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP"), a non-qualified defined benefit pension plan, which provides certain executive officers with supplemental deferred retirement benefits. The SERP provides an opportunity for participants to receive retirement benefits that cannot be paid under our tax-qualified plans because of the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Benefits are based on compensation and length of service and the SERP is unfunded. No contributions by the Company are anticipated for the 2008 fiscal year. Benefit payments are expected to total $3,290,000 during the next five fiscal years and no benefit payments are expected to occur during the succeeding five fiscal years. We use a December 31 measurement date for the SERP. The accrued liability on our balance sheet for the SERP was $1,915,000 at December 31, 2007 ($1,597,000 at December 31, 2006).
 
The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in the SERP's benefit obligations and a statement of the funded status for the periods indicated (in thousands):
 
 
 
The accrued benefit cost increased $135,000 during 2006 as a result of adopting SFAS 158. See Note 1 for additional information.
 
The following table shows the components of net periodic benefit costs for the periods indicated (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
The following table provides information for the SERP, which has an accumulated benefit in excess of plan assets (in thousands):
 
 
The following table reflects the weighted-average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost for the SERP:
 
 
 
We invest in senior housing and health care real estate. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our two business segments  investment properties and medical office buildings. Under the investment property segment, we invest in senior housing and health care real estate through acquisition and financing of primarily single tenant properties. Properties acquired are primarily leased under leases and we are not involved in the management of the property. Our primary investment property types include skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, independent living/continuing care retirement communities and specialty care facilities. Under the medical office building segment, our properties are typically leased under gross leases, modified gross leases or leases, to multiple tenants, and generally require a certain level of property management. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see Note 1). There are no intersegment sales or transfers. We evaluate performance based upon net operating income of the combined properties in each segment.
triple-net
triple-net
 
Non-segment revenue consists mainly of revenues from our Development Services Group ("DSG"), interest income on non-real estate investments and other income. Non-segment assets consist of DSG and corporate assets including cash, accounts receivable and deferred financing costs among others. Non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual segments in determining net operating income.
 
During the three months ended March 31, 2008, we changed the name of the operating properties segment to medical office buildings and reclassified certain assets and related revenues. Four specialty care facilities that were formerly classified as operating properties have been reclassified to investment properties. Accordingly, we have reclassified the relevant amounts herein to be consistent with the new classification. Additionally, we have reclassified certain non-segment/corporate assets and revenues to be included in the related business segments to be consistent with the new classification.
 
Summary information for the reportable segments during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All assets, revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005 were attributable to our investment property segment.
 
 
The following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


