FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20080508061023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 7, 2008, Health Care REIT, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release that announced operating results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2008. The press release refers to a supplemental information package that is available on the Company's website (www.hcreit.com), free of charge. Copies of the press release and supplemental information package have been furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Current Report, and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information included in this Current Report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Its: Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Dated: May 7, 2008

 
Exhibit 99.1
F O R   I M M E D I A T E   R E L E A S E
May 7, 2008 For more information contact: Scott Estes  (419) 247-2800 Mike Crabtree  (419) 247-2800
Toledo, Ohio, May 7, 2008........today announced operating results for the company's first quarter ended March 31, 2008.
Health Care REIT, Inc. (NYSE:HCN)
"We are off to an excellent start in 2008 and expect even greater success on the investment front than was originally anticipated," commented George L. Chapman, chief executive officer of Health Care REIT, Inc. "We also expect a higher amount of selective asset sales during 2008, which should allow us to recycle capital and leave us less reliant on the capital markets to fund our growth. We believe that this capital redeployment strategy will continue to enhance the quality of real estate in our portfolio and has enabled us to increase our projected FFO growth this year to a range of 6 to 8 percent per share."
Recent Highlights
.
Key Performance Indicators
.
 
The following table summarizes certain items impacting NICS, FFO and FAD:
1Q08 Earnings
.
 
Page 1 of 8
 
As previously announced, the Board of Directors declared a dividend for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 of $0.68 per share, as compared to $0.66 per share for the same period in 2007. The dividend will be paid on May 20, 2008 and will be the company's 148 consecutive quarterly dividend payment.
Dividends for First Quarter 2008
.
th
The company is increasing its investment guidance for 2008 to a range of $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion from $900 million to $1.2 billion. Acquisition guidance has been increased to a range of $700 to $900 million from $500 to $700 million of acquisitions, while development funding remains unchanged within a range of $400 to $500 million. Disposition guidance has also been increased to a range of $300 to $400 million from $100 to $200 million. Net investment guidance remains unchanged at a range of $700 million to $1.1 billion.
Outlook for 2008
.
The company is revising its 2008 earnings guidance. Normalized FFO has been increased to a range of $3.30 to $3.38 per diluted share from $3.27 to $3.37 per diluted share. Normalized FAD has been increased to a range of $3.04 to $3.12 per diluted share from $3.01 to $3.11 per diluted share. Due to an increase in projected depreciation and amortization arising from the increased acquisition guidance, net income available to common stockholders has been revised to a range of $1.50 to $1.58 per diluted share from $1.55 to $1.65 per diluted share.
The company's guidance excludes any impairments, unanticipated additions to the loan loss reserve or other additional one-time items, including any additional cash payments other than normal monthly rental payments. Please see the exhibits for a reconciliation of the outlook for net income available to common stockholders to FFO and FAD.
The company's quarterly supplemental information is now located in a separate report under the News & Events heading of the company's website. The report can be accessed at www.hcreit.com/supplement.
New Supplemental Information Report Available
.
The company has scheduled a conference call on Thursday, May 8, 2008 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss its first quarter 2008 results, industry trends, portfolio performance and outlook for 2008. Telephone access will be available by dialing 888-686-9703 or 913-312-0975 (international). For those unable to listen to the call live, a taped rebroadcast will be available beginning two hours after completion of the call through May 22, 2008. To access the rebroadcast, dial 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 (international). The conference ID number is 5309542. To participate in the webcast, log on to www.hcreit.com or www.earnings.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days through the same websites. This earnings release is posted on the company's website under the heading News & Events.
Conference Call Information
.
The company believes that net income available to common stockholders (NICS), as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, the company considers funds from operations (FFO) and funds available for distribution (FAD) to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Normalized FFO represents FFO adjusted for unusual and non-recurring items. FAD represents FFO excluding net straight-line rental adjustments, rental income related to above/below market leases and amortization of deferred loan expenses and less cash used to fund capital
Supplemental Reporting Measures
.
Page 2 of 8
 
expenditures, tenant improvements and lease commissions. Normalized FAD represents FAD excluding prepaid/straight-line rent cash receipts and adjusted for unusual and non-recurring items.
The company's supplemental reporting measures are financial measures that are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. The company's management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, they are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. The supplemental reporting measures do not represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by the company, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Please see the exhibits for reconciliations of the supplemental reporting measures.
About Health Care REIT
.
Health Care REIT, Inc., with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is an equity real estate investment trust that invests across the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate, including independent living/continuing care retirement communities, assisted living facilities, skilled nursing facilities, hospitals, long-term acute care hospitals and medical office buildings. Founded in 1970, the company was the first real estate investment trust to invest exclusively in health care facilities. The company also offers a full array of property management and development services. As of March 31, 2008, the company's broadly diversified portfolio consisted of 646 properties in 38 states. More information is available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.
This document may contain "forward-looking" statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements concern and are based upon, among other things, the possible expansion of the company's portfolio; the sale of properties; the performance of its operators and properties; its occupancy rates; its ability to acquire or develop properties; its ability to manage properties; its ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for vacant space or for properties that the company takes back from financially troubled tenants, if any; its ability to make distributions; its policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; its tax status as a real estate investment trust; its ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; its ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; its critical accounting policies; and its ability to meet its earnings guidance. When the company uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "estimate" or similar expressions, it is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. The company's expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from expectations. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators'/tenants' difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and senior housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; the company's ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable results; the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated; the failure of closings to occur as and when anticipated; acts of God affecting the company's properties; the company's ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; the company's ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; environmental laws affecting the company's properties; changes in rules or practices governing the company's financial reporting; and legal and operational matters, including real estate investment trust qualification and key management personnel recruitment and retention. Finally, the company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Page 3 of 8
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited)
(In thousands)
Page 4 of 8
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited)
(In thousands, except per share data)
Page 5 of 8
 
(Amounts in 000's except per share data)
Funds From Operations Reconciliation
 
Page 6 of 8
 
(Amounts in 000's except per share data)
Funds Available For Distribution Reconciliation
 
Page 7 of 8
 
(Amounts in 000's except per share data)
Outlook Reconciliations
 
Page 8 of 8

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


