FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20100224195106.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 24, 2010, Health Care REIT, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release that announced operating results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2009. The press release refers to a supplemental information package that is available on the Company's website (www.hcreit.com), free of charge. Copies of the press release and supplemental information package have been furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Current Report, and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information included in this Current Report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 22, 2010, the Company issued a press release that announced the formation of a joint venture with Forest City Enterprises. A copy of the press release has been furnished as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report. All information in the press release is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise be subject to the liability of that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent the Company specifically incorporated it by reference.
The press release may contain "forward-looking" statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements describe, among other things, the beliefs, expectations, plans and strategies of the Company and the joint venture. These forward-looking statements concern and are based upon, among other things, the contemplated joint venture; potential benefits associated with the transaction; the performance of the operators/tenants and properties of the joint venture; the ability of each of the Company and Forest City to complete the remaining acquisition; occupancy rates; the ability to enter into agreements with new and existing tenants; and the policies and plans of the joint venture regarding investments, financings and other matters. When the Company uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "estimate" or similar expressions, it is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from expectations. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators'/tenants' difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and senior housing industries and the life sciences sector; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including , but not limited to, their ability to pay rent; the failure of closings to occur as and when anticipated; acts of God; the ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; operator/tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies; government regulations affecting the life sciences sector; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to the remaining acquisition; changes in rules or practices governing financial reporting; and other factors affecting the execution of the transaction and subsequent performance, including REIT laws and regulations, receipt of third party approvals without unexpected delays or conditions; and timely implementation and execution of the plans and strategies of the joint venture. Finally, the Company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 24, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 24, 2010 For more information contact: Scott Estes  (419) 247-2800 Mike Crabtree  (419) 247-2800
Toledo, Ohio, February 24, 2010 today announced operating results for the company's fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2009.
Health Care REIT, Inc. (NYSE:HCN)
"This was an unprecedented year for repositioning the company as a whole," commented George L. Chapman, chairman, CEO and president of Health Care REIT, Inc. "During a difficult economic and capital market environment, we enhanced the portfolio, further strengthened our balance sheet and broadened our team. We delivered over $700 million of high quality development projects while at the same time disposed of non-core assets. The $328 million in disposition proceeds, together with nearly $1 billion of incremental capital raised, funded our investments and allowed us to reduce debt. Throughout 2009, we remained focused on maintaining our operator relationships while exploring new opportunities to prepare the company for its next phase of growth.
"To that end we've been very active early in 2010. We expect to complete over $568 million of new investments by April, including a portfolio of medical office buildings leased to Aurora Health Care, a portfolio of senior housing assets with Capital Senior Living, and a life sciences joint venture with Forest City Enterprises that will further diversify our asset base and expand our offerings to our academic medical center clients. We remain optimistic that we will continue to see additional high quality investment opportunities throughout the remainder of the year."
Recent Highlights and 2009 Accomplishments
.
Key Performance Indicators
.
Page 1 of 10 
 
The following table summarizes certain items impacting NICS, FFO and FAD:
4Q09 Earnings
.
 
The following table summarizes certain items impacting NICS, FFO and FAD:
2009 Year End Earnings
.
 
The following items impacted 2009 earnings:
Non-recurring Fourth Quarter 2009 Items
.
As previously announced, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 of $0.68 per share, as compared to $0.68 per share for the same period in 2008. The cash dividend paid on February 19, 2010 was the company's 155 consecutive quarterly dividend payment.
Dividends for Fourth Quarter 2009
.
th
The Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend rate of $0.68 per share ($2.72 per share annually), commencing with the May 2010 dividend. The company's dividend policy is reviewed annually during the Board of Director's January planning session. The declaration and payment of quarterly dividends remains subject to review by and approval of the Board of Directors.
Dividends for 2010
.
Page 2 of 10 
 
Investments Subsequent to Year End
.
The company is introducing its 2010 guidance and expects to report net income attributable to common stockholders in a range of $1.43 to $1.58 per diluted share; normalized FFO in a range of $3.10 to $3.25 per diluted share; and normalized FAD in a range of $2.87 to $3.02 per diluted share.
Outlook for 2010
.
In preparing its guidance, the company made the following assumptions:
The company's guidance excludes any additional capital transactions, impairments, unanticipated additions to the loan loss reserve or other additional one-time items, including any additional cash payments other than normal monthly rental payments. Please see the exhibits for a reconciliation of the outlook for net income available to common stockholders to normalized FFO and FAD.
Page 3 of 10 
 
The company has scheduled a conference call on Thursday, February 25, 2010 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss its fourth quarter and year end 2009 results, industry trends, portfolio performance and outlook for 2010. Telephone access will be available by dialing 888-346-2469 or 706-758-4923 (international). For those unable to listen to the call live, a taped rebroadcast will be available beginning two hours after completion of the call through March 11, 2010. To access the rebroadcast, dial 800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291 (international). The conference ID number is 50427137. To participate in the webcast, log on to www.hcreit.com or www.earnings.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days through the same websites. This earnings release is posted on the company's website under the heading News & Events.
Conference Call Information
.
The company believes that net income attributable to common stockholders (NICS), as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, the company considers funds from operations (FFO) and funds available for distribution (FAD) to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Normalized FFO represents FFO adjusted for unusual and non-recurring items. FAD represents FFO excluding net straight-line rental adjustments, amortization related to above/below market leases and amortization of non-cash interest expenses and less cash used to fund capital expenditures, tenant improvements and lease commissions at medical office buildings. Normalized FAD represents FAD excluding prepaid/straight-line rent cash receipts and adjusted for unusual and non-recurring items.
Supplemental Reporting Measures
.
The company's supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors and equity analysts in the valuation, comparison and investment recommendations of companies. The company's management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, they are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. The supplemental reporting measures do not represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by the company, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Please see the exhibits for reconciliations of the supplemental reporting measures.
Health Care REIT, Inc., an S&P 500 company with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is a real estate investment trust that invests across the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate. The company also provides an extensive array of property management and development services. As of December 31, 2009, the company's broadly diversified portfolio consisted of 590 properties in 39 states. More information is available on the company's website at www.hcreit.com.
About Health Care REIT
.
This document may contain "forward-looking" statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements concern and are based upon, among other things, the possible expansion of the company's portfolio; the sale of properties; the performance of its operators/tenants and properties; its occupancy rates; its ability to acquire, develop and/or manage properties; its ability to enter into agreements with viable new tenants for vacant space or for properties that the company takes back from financially troubled tenants, if any; its ability to make distributions to stockholders; its policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; its tax status as a real estate investment trust; its ability to
Page 4 of 10 
 
appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; its ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; its critical accounting policies; and its ability to meet its earnings guidance. When the company uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "estimate" or similar expressions, it is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. The company's expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from expectations. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators'/tenants' difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and senior housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; the company's ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable results; the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated; acts of God affecting the company's properties; the company's ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; the company's ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; environmental laws affecting the company's properties; changes in rules or practices governing the company's financial reporting; and legal and operational matters, including real estate investment trust qualification and key management personnel recruitment and retention. Finally, the company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Page 5 of 10 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited)
(In thousands)
Page 6 of 10
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited)
(In thousands, except per share data)
Page 7 of 10
 
Funds From Operations Reconciliation
(Amounts in 000's except per share data)
Page 8 of 10
 
(Amounts in 000's except per share data)
Funds Available For Distribution Reconciliation
Page 9 of 10
 
(Amounts in 000's except per share data)
Outlook Reconciliations
Page 10 of 10

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 22, 2010 For more information contact: Scott Estes (419) 247-2800 Mike Crabtree (419) 247-2800
Toledo, Ohio, February 22, 2010....Health Care REIT, Inc. (NYSE:HCN) announced today that it has formed a $668 million joint venture with Forest City Enterprises (NYSE:FCE.A and FCE.B). Health Care REIT will acquire a 49% interest in a seven-building life sciences campus with 1.2 million square feet located in University Park in Cambridge, MA. University Park is immediately adjacent to the campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Forest City will continue to own the remaining 51% interest. The value of Health Care REIT's investment is $327 million. Health Care REIT will invest $170 million of cash and the joint venture will assume $320 million of secured debt on the seven buildings. The weighted average interest rate on the venture's non-recourse secured debt is 7.1%. Projected 2010 cash net operating income for the portfolio is approximately $51 million. Of the total joint venture, the purchase of six buildings totaling $610 million closed today and one building totaling $58 million is anticipated to close in the second quarter of 2010.
University Park at MIT is widely recognized as one of the country's leading life sciences campuses. The portfolio is 100% leased and includes affiliates of investment grade pharmaceutical and research tenants such as Novartis, Genzyme, Millennium (a subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceuticals), and Brigham and Women's Hospital. Forest City Enterprises self-developed the portfolio and will continue to manage it on behalf of the joint venture. The life sciences campus is part of a mixed-use project that includes a 210-room hotel, 674 residential units, a grocery store, restaurants and retail.
"These are best-in-class assets in a prime location leased to world class life sciences companies that further diversify our health care real estate holdings. We believe these assets have the ability to generate above average NOI growth due to the demand for space in this high quality market," commented George L. Chapman, chief executive officer of Health Care REIT, Inc. "We are pleased to establish this relationship with Forest City, which owns, develops, acquires and manages commercial and residential real estate. They have extensive experience in successfully developing and managing life sciences properties throughout the country.
"This transaction is a natural evolution of our relationship investing strategy that emphasizes partnerships with leading health care providers and the ownership of high quality real estate," Chapman continued. "We hope to grow and diversify our portfolio through relationships with academic medical
 
centers and life sciences organizations. We also believe that the combined capabilities of HCN and FCE may allow us to invest in health care facilities within larger and more integrated mixed-use projects."
"We're thrilled to launch this new venture with Health Care REIT," said Charles A. Ratner, Forest City president and chief executive officer. "It positions us with a strong capital partner who can help us grow our life sciences business. We are very proud of the value we've created over the past 25 years with the development and management of University Park, one of the great mixed-use parks in the country. Its success shows not just the quality of the location and the individual assets, but the synergy possible by creating attractive campus environments with a true sense of place.'"
The company plans to discuss the strategic benefits and financial implications of this investment in greater detail on its fourth quarter 2009 earnings conference call scheduled for Thursday, February 25, 2010. Telephone access will be available by dialing 888-346-2469 or 706-758-4923 (international). For those unable to listen to the call live, a taped rebroadcast will be available beginning two hours after completion of the call through March 11, 2010. To access the rebroadcast, dial 800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291 (international). The conference ID number is 50427137. To participate in the webcast, log on to www.hcreit.com or www.earnings.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days through the same websites.
Health Care REIT, Inc., an S&P 500 company with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is a real estate investment trust that invests across the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate. The company also provides an extensive array of property management and development services. As of December 31, 2009, the company's broadly diversified portfolio consisted of 590 properties in 39 states. More information is available on the company's website at www.hcreit.com.


