FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20110901083939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01
Other Events.
Health Care REIT, Inc. (the "Company") is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K for the sole purpose of filing with the Commission and thereby incorporating into certain registration statements updates to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 regarding (1) "Item 1BusinessCertain Government Regulations," (2) "Item 1ARisk FactorsForward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors" and (3) the sections captioned "Health Reform Laws" and "Medicare Program Reimbursement Changes" included in "Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationExecutive Summary." These updates are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 1, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
Item 1BusinessCertain Government Regulations
Health Law Matters  Generally
Typically, operators of senior housing facilities do not receive significant funding from government programs and are largely subject to state laws, as opposed to federal laws. Operators of skilled nursing facilities and hospitals do receive significant funding from government programs, and these facilities are subject to the federal and state laws that regulate the type and quality of the medical and/or nursing care provided, ancillary services (, respiratory, occupational, physical and infusion therapies), qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment, reimbursement and rate setting and operating policies. In addition, as described below, operators of these facilities are subject to extensive laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including, but not limited to, the Federal Anti-kickback Statute, the Federal Stark Law, and the Federal False Claims Act, as well as comparable state law counterparts. Hospitals, physician group practice clinics, and other health care providers that operate in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure, registration, certification, and inspection laws, regulations, and industry standards. Our tenants' failure to comply with any of these, and other, laws could result in loss of accreditation; denial of reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion from federal and state health care programs; loss of license; or closure of the facility.
e.g.
Licensing and Certification
The primary regulations that affect senior housing facilities with assisted living are state licensing and registration laws. In granting and renewing these licenses, the state regulatory agencies consider numerous factors relating to a property's physical plant and operations including, but not limited to, admission and discharge standards, staffing, and training. A decision to grant or renew a license is also affected by a property owner's record with respect to patient and consumer rights, medication guidelines, and rules. Certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us may require the resident to pay an entrance or upfront fee, a portion of which may be refundable. These entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition; establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements, and other financial restrictions; the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time; lien rights in favor of residents; restrictions on change of ownership; and similar matters. Such oversight, and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities, may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities, and, therefore, may adversely affect us.
Certain health care facilities are subject to a variety of licensure and certificate of need ("CON") laws and regulations. Where applicable, CON laws generally require, among other requirements, that a facility demonstrate the need for (1) constructing a new facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an existing facility, (3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new services, (4) changing the ownership or control of an existing licensed facility, or (5) terminating services that have been previously approved through the CON process. Certain state CON laws and regulations may restrict the ability of operators to add new properties or expand an existing facility's size or services. In addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a new operator. If we have to replace a property operator who is excluded from participating in a federal or state health care program (as discussed below), our ability to replace the operator may be affected by a particular state's CON laws, regulations, and applicable guidance governing changes in provider control.
With respect to licensure, generally our skilled nursing facilities and acute care facilities are required to be licensed and certified for participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal health care programs. This generally requires license renewals and compliance surveys on an annual or bi-annual basis. The failure of our operators to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory approval, as well as the failure of our operators to correct serious deficiencies identified in a compliance survey could require those operators to discontinue operations at a property. In addition, if a property is found to be out of compliance with the Medicare, Medicaid, or other health care program conditions of participation in, the property operator may be excluded from participating in those government health care programs. Any such occurrence may impair an operators' ability to meet their financial obligations to us. If we have to replace an excluded property operator, our ability to replace the operator may be affected by federal and state laws, regulations, and applicable guidance governing changes in provider control. This may result in payment delays, an inability to find a replacement operator, a significant working capital commitment from us to a new operator or other difficulties.
Reimbursement
 Approximately 37% of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 were attributable to senior housing facilities. The majority of the revenues received by the operators of our senior housing facilities are from private pay sources. The remaining revenue source is primarily Medicaid under certain waiver programs. As a part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act ("OBRA") of 1981, Congress established a waiver program enabling some states to offer Medicaid reimbursement to assisted living providers as an alternative to institutional long-term care services. The provisions of OBRA and the subsequent OBRA Acts of 1987 and 1990 permit states to seek a waiver from typical Medicaid requirements to develop cost-effective alternatives to long-term care, including Medicaid payments for assisted living and home health. As of December 31, 2010, four of our 41 senior housing operators received Medicaid reimbursement pursuant to Medicaid waiver programs. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2010, approximately 9% of the revenues at our senior housing facilities were from Medicaid reimbursement. There can be no guarantee that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to maintain its waiver status.
Senior Housing Facilities.
Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are determined by local market conditions and operating costs. Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a Medicaid beneficiary who requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to state. Thus, the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may be adversely affected by payor mix, acuity level, changes in Medicaid eligibility, and reimbursement levels. In addition, a state could lose its Medicaid waiver and no longer be permitted to utilize Medicaid dollars to reimburse for assisted living services. Changes in revenues could in turn have a material adverse effect on an operator's ability to meet its obligations to us.
 Skilled nursing facilities and hospitals typically receive most of their revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, with the balance representing reimbursement payments from private payors, including private insurers. Consequently, changes in federal or state reimbursement policies may also adversely affect an operator's ability to cover its expenses, including our rent or debt service. Skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are subject to periodic pre- and post-payment reviews, and other audits by federal and state authorities. A review or audit of a property operator's claims could result in recoupments, denials, or delay of payments in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the operator's ability to meet its financial obligations to us. Due to the significant judgments and estimates inherent in payor settlement accounting, no assurance can be given as to the adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators to cover potential adjustments to reimbursements, or to cover settlements made to payors. In fact, in December 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General ("OIG") released a report focusing on skilled nursing facilities' billing practices for Medicare Part A payments, and found that between 2006-2008 skilled nursing facilities increasingly billed for higher paying Resource Utilization Groups ("RUGs"), the payment classification mechanism for the Medicare program, even though beneficiary characteristics remained largely unchanged. In particular, from 2006 to 2008, OIG found that the percentage of RUGs for ultra high therapy increased from 17% to 28%, despite the fact that beneficiaries' ages and diagnoses at admission were largely unchanged during that time period. As a result of the recent attention on skilled nursing billing practices and ongoing government pressure to reduce spending by government health care programs, government health care programs may limit or reduce payments to skilled nursing facilities and hospitals, and, as a result, an operator's ability to meet its financial obligations to us may be significantly impaired.
Skilled Nursing Facilities and Hospitals.
 For the twelve months ended September 30, 2010, approximately 30% of the revenues at our skilled nursing facilities (which comprised 27% of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010) were paid by Medicare. Skilled nursing facilities are reimbursed under the Medicare Skilled Nursing Facility Prospective Payment System ("SNF PPS"). There is a risk that some skilled nursing facilities' costs will exceed the fixed payments under the SNF PPS, and there is also a risk that payments under the SNF PPS may be set below the costs to provide certain items and services, which could result in immediate financial difficulties for skilled nursing facilities, and could cause operators to seek bankruptcy protection. Skilled nursing facilities have faced these types of difficulties since the implementation of the SNF PPS.
Medicare Reimbursement and Skilled Nursing Facilities.
On August 8, 2011, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS"), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS"), announced that for fiscal year 2012 (beginning October 1, 2012) there will be an 11.1%, or $3.87 billion, decrease in RUG payments made to skilled nursing facilities. CMS announced that the reasons for this rate reduction were to correct for the unintended spike in payment levels, particularly those associated with higher paying RUGs, and to align reimbursement with cost. As part of these changes, effective October 1, 2011, all rate categories will be updated for the full "market basket" increase of 2.7%, less a 1% productivity adjustment required by Section 3401(b) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ("PPACA"). Section 5008 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 directs the Secretary of HHS to conduct a demonstration program, for a three year period, beginning January 1, 2008, assessing the costs and outcomes of patients discharged from hospitals in a variety of
post-acute care settings, including skilled nursing facilities. Furthermore, CMS stated in the final rulemaking for the prospective payment system and consolidated billing for skilled nursing facilities for fiscal year 2012 (published August 8, 2011) that it will consider the outcomes of such recent demonstration projects relevant to the SNF setting when implementing its plans. We cannot predict, however, the potential financial implications those results, or any other proposed changes to the Medicare program, may have on our operators or tenants.
The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 mandated caps on Medicare reimbursement for certain therapy services. However, Congress imposed various moratoriums on the implementation of those caps. For 2011, the annual payment cap of $1,870 per patient applies to occupational therapy and a separate $1,870 cap applies to speech and physical therapy. Congress has permitted patients exceeding the cap to obtain additional Medicare coverage through a waiver program if the therapy is deemed medically necessary. The waiver program was historically extended, most recently, on December 15, 2010, by the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act (HR 4994), which extended the waiver program through December 31, 2011. Prior to the recent legislation, the program was scheduled to expire December 31, 2010. If the exception expires, patients will need to use private funds to pay for the cost of therapy above the caps. If patients are unable to satisfy their out-of-pocket cost responsibility to reimburse an operator for services rendered, the operator's ability to meet its financial obligations to us could be adversely impacted.
 For the twelve months ended September 30, 2010, approximately 56% of the revenues at our hospitals (which comprised 8% of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010) were from Medicare reimbursements. Hospitals, generally, are reimbursed by Medicare under the Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System ("PPS"), the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System ("OPPS"), the Long Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment System ("LTCH PPS"), or the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System ("IRF PPS"). Acute care hospitals provide a wide range of inpatient and outpatient services including, but not limited to, surgery, rehabilitation, therapy, and clinical laboratory services. Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services for patients with medical conditions that are often complex and that require more intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than that available in most skilled nursing facilities. Inpatient rehabilitation facilities provide intensive rehabilitation services in an inpatient setting for patients requiring at least three hours of rehabilitation services a day.
Medicare Reimbursement and Hospitals.
With respect to Medicare's PPS for regular hospitals, reimbursement for inpatient services is made on the basis of a fixed, prospective rate, based on the principal diagnosis of the patient. Hospitals may be at risk to the extent that their costs in treating a specific case exceed the fixed payment amount. The diagnosis related group ("DRG") reimbursement system was updated in 2008 to expand the number of DRGs from 538 to 745 in order to better distinguish more severe conditions. One additional DRG was added in 2009, for a new total of 746. In some cases, a hospital might be able to qualify for an outlier payment if the hospital's losses exceed a threshold.
 Medicaid is a major payor source for residents in our skilled nursing facilities and hospitals. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2010, approximately 51% of the revenues of our skilled nursing facilities and 4% of the revenues of our hospitals were attributable to Medicaid reimbursement payments. The federal and state governments share responsibility for financing Medicaid. The federal matching rate, known as the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage ("FMAP"), varies by state based on relative per capita income, but is at least 50% in all states. On average, Medicaid is the largest component of total state spending, representing approximately 21% of total state spending. The percentage of Medicaid dollars used for long-term care varies from state to state, due in part to different ratios of elderly population and eligibility requirements. Within certain federal guidelines, states have a fairly wide range of discretion to determine eligibility and reimbursement methodology. Many states reimburse long-term care facilities using fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based on patient acuity and the historical costs incurred in providing patient care. Reasonable costs typically include allowances for staffing, administrative and general expenses, property, and equipment (, real estate taxes, depreciation and fair rental).
Medicaid Reimbursement.
e.g.
In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse the cost of providing skilled nursing services. Certain states are attempting to slow the rate of growth in Medicaid expenditures by freezing rates or restricting eligibility and benefits. As of the beginning of state fiscal year 2011, states in which we have skilled nursing property investments held rates flat on average for the year. Our skilled nursing portfolio's average Medicaid rate will likely vary throughout the year as states continue to make interim changes to their budgets and Medicaid funding. In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may decline if revenues in a particular state are not sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures. President Obama's proposed fiscal year budget for 2012, released on February 14, 2011, has the potential to further impact Medicaid reimbursement rates. The President's budget includes a proposal to phase down the Medicaid provider tax, a tax paid by health care providers to help fund state Medicaid programs, beginning with a reduction of 4.5% in fiscal year 2015. If the President's proposal is implemented, the various state Medicaid programs will receive less funds, which could adversely affect our operators and tenants.
The Medicare Part D drug benefit became effective January 1, 2006. Since that date, low-income Medicare beneficiaries (eligible for both Medicare and full Medicaid benefits), including those nursing home residents who are dually eligible for both programs, may enroll and receive outpatient prescription drugs under Medicare, not Medicaid. Medicare Part D has resulted in increased administrative responsibilities for nursing home operators because enrollment in Medicare Part D is voluntary and residents must choose between multiple prescription drug plans. Operators may also experience increased expenses to the extent that a particular drug prescribed to a patient is not listed on the Medicare Part D drug plan formulary for the plan in which the patient is enrolled.
The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to evolve. Federal and state authorities have considered and may seek to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property operations. The impact of any such changes, if implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our skilled nursing and hospital property operations. No assurance can be given that current revenue sources or levels will be maintained. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that payments under a government health care program are currently, or will be in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property operators for their operating and capital expenses. As a result, an operator's ability to meet its financial obligations to us could be adversely impacted.
Finally, the PPACA and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, the "Health Reform Laws") (further discussed below). may have a significant impact on Medicare, Medicaid, other federal health care programs, and private insurers, which impact the reimbursement amounts received by skilled nursing facilities and other health care providers. The Health Reform Laws could have a substantial and material adverse effect on all parties directly or indirectly involved in the health care system.
Other Related Laws
Skilled nursing facilities and hospitals (and senior housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to federal, state, and local laws, regulations, and applicable guidance that govern the operations and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by health care providers. Certain of these laws prohibit direct or indirect payments of any kind for the purpose of inducing or encouraging the referral of patients for medical products or services reimbursable by government health care programs. Other laws require providers to furnish only medically necessary services and submit to the government valid and accurate statements for each service. Still, other laws require providers to comply with a variety of safety, health and other requirements relating to the condition of the licensed property and the quality of care provided. Sanctions for violations of these laws, regulations, and other applicable guidance may include, but are not limited to, criminal and/or civil penalties and fines, loss of licensure, immediate termination of government payments, and exclusion from any government health care program. In certain circumstances, violation of these rules (such as those prohibiting abusive and fraudulent behavior) with respect to one property may subject other facilities under common control or ownership to sanctions, including exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as other government health care programs. In the ordinary course of its business, a property operator is regularly subjected to inquiries, investigations, and audits by the federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and regulations.
All health care providers, including, but not limited to skilled nursing facilities and hospitals (and senior housing facilities that receives Medicaid payments) are also subject to the Federal Anti-kickback Statute, which generally prohibits persons from offering, providing, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual or the furnishing of a good or service for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. For an individual, violation of the AKS may result in up to five years of imprisonment and/or a criminal fine of up to $250,000 for each violation or not more than the greater of twice the gross gain to the defendant or twice the gross loss of the victim. For a corporation, violation of the AKS may result in a criminal fine of up to $500,000 for each violation or not more than the greater of twice the gross gain to the defendant or twice the gross loss of the victim. In addition, such a conviction may result in exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. Skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are also subject to the Federal Ethics in Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the Stark Law. The Stark Law generally prohibits the submission of claims to Medicare for payment if the claim results from a physician referral for certain designated services and the physician has a financial relationship with the health service provider that does not qualify under one of the exceptions for a financial relationship under the Stark Law. Similar prohibitions on physician self-referrals and submission of claims apply to state Medicaid programs. Further, health care providers, including, but not limited to, skilled nursing facilities and hospitals (and senior housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments), are subject to substantial financial penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the Federal False Claims Act and, in particular, actions under the Federal False Claims Act's "whistleblower" provisions. Private enforcement of health care fraud has increased due in large part to amendments to the Federal False Claims Act, including those amendments made by the PPACA explicitly linking Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and Federal False Claims Act violations, that encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the
government. These whistleblower suits brought by private individuals, known as qui tam actions, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and former patients, nurses and other employees. Such whistleblower actions have been brought against nursing facilities on the basis of the alleged failure of the nursing facility to meet applicable regulations relating to its operations. Significantly, if a claim is successfully adjudicated, the Federal False Claims Act provides for treble damages up to $11,000 per claim.
Prosecutions, investigations, or whistleblower actions could have a material adverse effect on a property operator's liquidity, financial condition, and operations, which could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet its financial obligations to us. Finally, various state false claim act and anti-kickback laws may also apply to each property operator. Violation of any of the foregoing statutes can result in criminal and/or civil penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its financial obligations to us.
Other legislative developments over the past several years, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), have greatly expanded the definition of health care fraud and related offenses and broadened its scope to include private health care plans in addition to government payors. Congress also has greatly increased funding for the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services to audit, investigate and prosecute suspected health care fraud. Moreover, a significant portion of the billions in health care fraud recoveries over the past several years has also been returned to government agencies to further fund their fraud investigation and prosecution efforts.
Additionally, other HIPAA provisions and regulations provide for communication of health information through standard electronic transaction formats and for the privacy and security of health information. In order to comply with the regulations, health care providers often must undertake significant operational and technical implementation efforts. Operators also may face significant financial exposure if they fail to maintain the privacy and security of medical records and other personal health information about individuals. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health ("HITECH") Act, passed in February 2009, strengthened the HHS Secretary's authority to impose civil money penalties for HIPAA violations occurring after February 18, 2009. HITECH directs the HHS Secretary to provide for periodic audits to ensure covered entities and their business associates (as that term is defined under HIPAA) comply with the applicable HITECH requirements, increasing the likelihood that a HIPAA violation will result in an enforcement action. CMS issued an interim final rule which conformed HIPAA enforcement regulations to the HITECH Act, increasing the maximum penalty for multiple violations of a single requirement or prohibition to $1.5 million. Higher penalties may accrue for violations of multiple requirements or prohibitions. HIPAA violations are also potentially subject to criminal penalties.
In November 2002, CMS began an ongoing national Nursing Home Quality Initiative (NHQI). Under this initiative, historical survey information, the NHQI Pilot Evaluation Report and the NHQI Overview is made available to the public on-line. The NHQI website provides consumer and provider information regarding the quality of care in nursing homes. The data allows consumers, providers, states, and researchers to compare quality information that shows how well nursing homes are caring for their residents' physical and clinical needs. The posted nursing home quality measures come from resident assessment data that nursing homes routinely collect on the residents at specified intervals during their stay. If the operators of nursing facilities are unable to achieve quality of care ratings that are comparable or superior to those of their competitors, they may lose market share to other facilities, reducing their revenues and adversely impacting their ability to make rental payments.
Finally, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against the health care industry have increased dramatically over the past several years and are expected to continue. Some of these enforcement actions represent novel legal theories and expansions in the application of the Federal False Claims Act. The costs for an operator of a health care property associated with both defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.
Item 1ARisk FactorsForward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. It does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the value of our securities could decline.
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those regarding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When we use words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "estimate" or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Our expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk factors related to our operators' revenues and expenses
Our investment property operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates. Expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. Liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for our operators. To the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon.
The recent credit and liquidity crisis, and the weakened economy, may have a lingering adverse effect on our operators and tenants, including their ability to access credit or maintain occupancy rates. If the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators are materially adversely impacted by economic conditions, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected.
Increased competition may affect our operators' ability to meet their obligations to us
The operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services. We cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. Our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses.
Risk factors related to obligor bankruptcies
We are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a
party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. An obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies.
We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. In some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. In some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. If we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected.
Transfers of health care facilities may require regulatory approvals and these facilities may not have efficient alternative uses
Transfers of health care facilities to successor operators frequently are subject to regulatory approvals or notifications, including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals under certificate of need ("CON") or determination of need laws, state licensure laws and Medicare and Medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types of real estate. The replacement of a health care facility operator could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. Alternatively, given the specialized nature of our facilities, we may be required to spend substantial time and funds to adapt these properties to other uses. If we are unable to timely transfer properties to successor operators or find efficient alternative uses, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected.
Risk factors related to government regulations
Our obligors' businesses are affected by government reimbursement and private payor rates. To the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. In recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. There can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. See "Item 1  Business  Certain Government Regulations  Reimbursement" above.
Our operators and tenants generally are subject to extensive federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. Our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. Such actions may have an effect on our operators' or tenants' ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. See "Item 1  Business  Certain Government Regulations  Other Related Laws" above.
Many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a license, registration, or CON, or loss of a required license, registration, or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events could materially adversely affect our operators' or tenants' ability to make rent payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar approval from a state agency. See "Item 1  Business  Certain Government Regulations  Licensing and Certification" above.
The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("ARRA"), which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, provided $87 billion in additional federal Medicaid funding for states' Medicaid expenditures between October 1, 2008 and December 31, 2010. On August 10, 2010, the President signed into law H.R. 1586,
which mandated a six-month extension of the increase in federal Medicaid funding for states through June 30, 2011, although the enhanced federal Medicaid funding was scaled back for the first two quarters of 2011. Under both the ARRA and H.R. 1586, states meeting certain eligibility requirements temporarily received additional money in the form of an increase in the federal medical assistance percentage ("FMAP"). Thus, for a limited period of time, the share of Medicaid costs that were paid for by the federal government went up, and each state's share went down. No similar extension of increased matching has been offered since June 30, 2011, and states' FMAP rates have returned to levels comparable to pre-ARRA rates. We cannot predict whether states are, or will remain, eligible to receive the additional federal Medicaid funding, or whether the states will have sufficient funds for their Medicaid programs. We also cannot predict the impact that such broad-based, far-reaching legislation will have on the U.S. economy or our business.
Risk factors related to liability claims and insurance costs
In recent years, skilled nursing and seniors housing operators have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. As a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. General and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators' future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators' ability to meet their obligations to us.
Risk factors related to acquisitions
We are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. If we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. Moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results. These costs may negatively affect our results of operations.
Risk factors related to joint ventures
We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such disputes and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. In addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. In some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partner's interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property.
Risk factors related to life sciences facilities
Our tenants in the life sciences industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their ability to make payments to us. Research, development and clinical testing of products and technologies can be very expensive and sources of funds may not be available to our life sciences tenants in the future. The products and technologies that are developed and manufactured by our life sciences tenants may require regulatory approval prior to being made, marketed, sold and used. The regulatory process can be costly, long and unpredictable. Even after a tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product still presents regulatory and liability risks, such as safety concerns, competition from new products and eventually the expiration of patent protection. These factors may affect the ability of our life sciences tenants to make timely payments to us, which may adversely affect our revenue and operations.
Risk factors related to indebtedness
Permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies.
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. These defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Risk factors related to our credit ratings
We plan to manage the Company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.
Risk factors related to interest rate swaps
We enter into interest rate swap agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility. These swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates. When we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. If such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected.
Risk factors related to environmental laws
Under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. We may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person's relationship to the property. Our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. Moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to meet the "all appropriate inquiry" standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors.
Risk factors related to facilities that require entrance fees
Certain of our senior housing facilities require the payment of an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may be refundable by the operator. Some of these facilities are subject to substantial oversight by state regulators relating to these funds. As a result of this oversight, residents of these facilities may have a variety of rights, including, for example, the right to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time and certain lien rights. The oversight and rights of residents within these facilities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may negatively impact us.
Risk factors related to facilities under construction or development
At any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a CON and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. The operator also may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary CON, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we can find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts.
In connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs.
Additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance.
In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. If our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, and the property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. Additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property.
We do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all
We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. If these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. There can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all.
Our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases
We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us.
Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties
Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.
Risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds
From time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. In order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. This competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us.
Failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses
We have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. This growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. Future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. Our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt.
We might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT
We intend to operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because:
 
 
 
Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal and other income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-REIT is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT status or avoid an excise tax. See "Item 1  Business  Taxation  Federal Income Tax Considerations" for a discussion of the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code that apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a REIT.
In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 15%) with respect to distributions.
As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock.
Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. See "Item 1  Business  Taxation  Federal Income Tax Considerations" included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions
To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. See "Item 1  Business  Taxation  Federal Income Tax
Considerations  Qualification as a REIT  Annual Distribution Requirements" included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. This may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in another transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements. This may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations.
The amount of additional indebtedness we may incur is limited by the terms of our line of credit arrangement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes. In addition, adverse economic conditions may impact the availability of additional funds or could cause the terms on which we are able to borrow additional funds to become unfavorable. In those circumstances, we may be required to raise additional equity in the capital markets. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions and the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of the shares of our capital stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature.
The lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements
We lease certain qualified health care properties we acquire to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable REIT subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. The rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable REIT subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor. If any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. See "Item 1  Business  Taxation  Federal Income Tax Considerations  Qualification as a REIT  Income Tests."
If certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the IRS as "true leases," we may be subject to adverse tax consequences
We may purchase properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. We intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a "true lease," thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the IRS might take the position that the transaction is not a "true lease" but is more properly treated in some other manner. In the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the IRS, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective with the year of re-characterization. See "Item 1  Business  Taxation  Federal Income Tax Considerations  Qualification as a REIT  Asset Tests" and " Income Tests." Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. See "Item 1  Business  Taxation  Federal Income Tax Considerations  Qualification as a REIT  Annual Distribution Requirements."
Other risk factors
We are also subject to other risks. First, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (staggered board provisions, restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.
Additionally, we are dependent on key personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. We believe that losing more than one could have a material adverse impact on our business.
Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationExecutive Summary
Health Reform Laws
On March 23, 2010, the President signed into law the PPACA and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, the "Health Reform Laws"). The Health Reform Laws contain various provisions that may directly impact us or the operators and tenants of our properties. Some provisions of the Health Reform Laws may have a positive impact on our operators' or tenants' revenues, by, for example, increasing coverage of uninsured individuals, while others may have a negative impact on the reimbursement of our operators or tenants by, for example, altering the market basket adjustments for certain types of health care facilities. The Health Reform Laws also enhance certain fraud and abuse penalty provisions that could apply to our operators and tenants, in the event of one or more violations of the federal health care regulatory laws. In addition, there are provisions that impact the health coverage that we and our operators and tenants provide to our respective employees. We cannot predict whether the existing Health Reform Laws, or future health care reform legislation or regulatory changes, will have a material impact on our operators' or tenants' property or business. If the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators and tenants are materially adversely impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected as well. Further, on February 2, 2011, the U.S. Senate refused to pass an overhaul repeal of the Health Reform Laws, and the focus has now shifted to attempts to repeal or amend individual sections of the Health Reform Laws. Further, federal courts are also considering, and in some cases have ruled on, the legality of the Health Reform Laws. We cannot predict whether any of these attempts to repeal or amend the Health Reform Laws will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a repeal or amendment would have on our operators and tenants.
 The Health Reform Laws provide for various changes to the reimbursement that our operators and tenants may receive. One such change is a reduction to the market basket adjustments for inpatient acute hospitals, long-term care hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation facilities, home health agencies, psychiatric hospitals, hospice care and outpatient hospitals. Beginning in 2010, the otherwise applicable percentage increase to the market basket for inpatient acute hospitals will decrease. Beginning in 2012, inpatient acute hospitals will also face a downward adjustment of the annual percentage increase to the market basket rate by a "productivity adjustment." The productivity adjustment may cause the annual percentage increase to be less than zero, which would mean that inpatient acute hospitals could face payment rates for a fiscal year that are less than the payment rates for the preceding year.
Impact to Reimbursement of the Operators and Tenants of Our Properties.
A similar productivity adjustment also applies to skilled nursing facilities beginning in 2012, which means that the payment rates for skilled nursing facilities may decrease from one year to the next. Long-term care hospitals have faced a specified percentage decrease in their annual update for discharges since 2010. Additionally, beginning in 2012, long-term care hospitals will be subject to the productivity adjustments, which may decrease the federal payment rates for long-term care hospitals. Similar productivity adjustments and other adjustments to payment rates have applied to inpatient rehabilitation facilities, psychiatric hospitals and outpatient hospitals since 2010.
The Health Reform Laws revise other reimbursement provisions that may affect our business. For example, the Health Reform Laws mandate a one-year extension of the exceptions for medical therapy caps, which will be applicable though December 31, 2011. The Health Reform Laws also reduce states' Medicaid disproportionate share hospital ("DSH") allotments, starting in 2014 through 2020. These allotments would have provided additional funding for DSH hospitals that are operators or tenants of our properties, and thus, any reduction might negatively impact these operators or tenants.
Additionally, beginning in fiscal year 2015, Medicare payments will decrease to hospitals for treatment associated with hospital acquired conditions. This decreased payment rate may negatively impact our operators or tenants. The Health Reform Laws also call for reductions in payments for discharges beginning October 1, 2012, in order to account for excess readmissions. While the exact amount of the reduction is not yet known, a reduction in payments to our operators or tenants may affect their ability to make payments to us.
PPACA additionally calls for the creation of the Independent Payment Advisory Board (the "Board"), which will be responsible for establishing payment polices, including recommendations in the event that Medicare costs exceed a certain threshold. Proposals for recommendations submitted by the Board prior to December 31, 2018 may
not include recommendations that would reduce payments for hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and physicians, among other providers, prior to December 31, 2019. The Health Reform Laws also create other mechanisms that could permit significant changes to payment. For example, PPACA establishes the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation to test innovative payment and service delivery models to reduce program expenditures through the use of demonstration programs that can waive existing reimbursement methodologies. The Health Reform Laws also provide additional Medicaid funding to allow states to carry out mandated expansion of Medicaid coverage to certain financially-eligible individuals beginning in 2014, and also permits states to expand their Medicaid coverage to these individuals as early as April 1, 2010, if certain conditions are met.
Additionally, although the Health Reform Laws delayed until at least October 1, 2011, the implementation of the Resource Utilization Group, Version Four ("RUG-IV"), which revises the payment classification system for skilled nursing facilities, the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010 repealed this delay retroactively to October 1, 2010. The Health Reform Laws also extend certain payment rules related to long-term acute care hospitals found in the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007.
Finally, many other changes resulting from the Health Reform Laws, or implementing regulations, or guidance may negatively impact our operators and tenants. We will continue to monitor and evaluate the Health Reform Laws and implementing regulations and guidance to determine other potential effects of the reform.
 The Health Reform Laws revise health care fraud and abuse provisions that will affect our operators and tenants. Specifically, PPACA allows for up to treble damages under the Federal False Claims Act for violations related to state-based health insurance exchanges authorized by the Health Reform Laws, which will be implemented beginning in 2014. The Health Reform Laws also impose new civil monetary penalties for false statements or actions that lead to delayed inspections, with penalties of up to $15,000 per day for failure to grant timely access and up to $50,000 for a knowing violation. The Health Reform laws also provide for additional funding to investigate and prosecute health care fraud and abuse. Accordingly, the increased penalties under PPACA for fraud and abuse violations may have a negative impact on our operators and tenants in the event that the government brings an enforcement action or subjects them to penalties.
Impact of Fraud and Abuse Provisions.
Further, as recently as February 2, 2011, CMS published final rulemaking to implement the enhanced provider and supplier screening provisions called for in the Health Reform Laws. Under the final rule, beginning March 25, 2011, all enrolling and participating providers and suppliers are assessed an annual administrative fee and are placed in one of three risk levels (limited, moderate, and high) based on an assessment of the individual's or entity's overall risk of fraud, waste and abuse. This rule also allows for the temporary suspension of Medicare payments to providers or suppliers in the event CMS receives credible information that an overpayment, fraud, or willful misrepresentation has occurred. The Health Reform Laws granted the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services significant discretionary authority to suspend, exclude, or impose fines on providers and suppliers based on the agency's determination that such a provider or supplier is "high-risk," and, as a result, this final rulemaking has the potential to materially adversely affect our operators and tenants who may be evaluated under the enhanced screening process.
Additionally, provisions of Title VI of PPACA are designed to increase transparency and program integrity by skilled nursing facilities, other nursing facilities and similar providers. Specifically, skilled nursing facilities and other providers and suppliers will be required to institute compliance and ethics programs. Additionally, PPACA makes it easier for consumers to file complaints against nursing homes by mandating that states establish complaint websites. The provisions calling for enhanced transparency will increase the administrative burden and costs on these providers.
 The Health Reform Laws affect employers that provide health plans to their employees. The new laws change the tax treatment of the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy and extend dependent coverage for dependents up to age 26, among other changes. We are evaluating our health care plans in light of these changes. These changes may affect our operators and tenants as well.
Impact to the Health Care Plans Offered to Our Employees.
Medicare Program Reimbursement Changes
In recent months, CMS released a number of proposed and final rulemakings that may potentially increase or decrease the government reimbursement of our operators and tenants. Moreover, in negotiating options to potentially raise the federal debt ceiling, Congress has proposed an automatic two percent cut to Medicare that could significantly impact reimbursement rates. To the extent that any of these rulemakings decrease government reimbursement to our operators and tenants, our revenue and operations may be indirectly, adversely affected.
On August 1, 2011, CMS issued a final rule updating the long-term acute care hospital prospective payment system for fiscal year 2012. Among other things, the final rule increased payment rates for acute care hospitals by 1% and long-term care hospitals by 1.8%. In the rule, CMS included a negative 2%, rather than the proposed 3.15%, documentation and coding adjustment for long-term care hospitals. CMS also released a final rulemaking for the prospective payment system and consolidated billing for skilled nursing facilities for fiscal year 2012 on August 8, 2011, which included the 11.1%, or $3.87 billion, decrease in RUG payments made to skilled nursing facilities previously discussed.
CMS annually adjusts the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule payment rates based on an update formula that includes application of the Sustainable Growth Rate ("SGR"). On November 29, 2010, CMS published the calendar year 2011 Physician Fee Schedule final rule. Among other things, CMS preliminary estimates in the final rule that the calendar year 2011 SGR formula will be negative 13.4%. This measure is a significant change from the figure provided in the proposed rule, and will replace the 21.3% reduction in physician Medicare reimbursement in 2010 required by the SGR formula. Additionally, in the final rule, CMS has eliminated certain CPT consultation codes, which could negatively impact the reimbursement levels received by our operators and tenants. In addition, on July 1, 2011, CMS published the calendar year 2012 Physician Fee Schedule proposed rule. Most notably, the proposed rule calls for a negative 29.5% update for 2012 under the statutory SGR formula. While Congress is expected to consider legislation to advert the upcoming cut, as it has in previous years, the scope, timing, and outcome of any such legislative "fix" is still speculative.
Finally, on November 24, 2010, CMS published the calendar year 2011 Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System ("OPPS") final rule. CMS estimates that the cumulative effect of all changes to payment rates for calendar year 2011 will have a positive effect, resulting in a 2.5% estimated increase in Medicare payments to providers paid under the HOPPS. On July 1, 2011, CMS published the calendar year 2012 OPPS proposed rule, which proposed no significant changes to payment rates.


