FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20110809170608.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
For the quarterly period ended December 31,2010
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01
Other Events.
     Pursuant to ASC 205-20, "Presentation of Financial Statements  Discontinued Operations", certain assets of Health Care REIT, Inc. (the "Company") are now classified as discontinued operations due to their sale during the six months ended June 30, 2011 or their classification as held for sale at June 30, 2011. As a result, the Company is reclassifying in this Current Report its operations, including rental income, interest expense and provision for depreciation and amortization related to those assets for prior periods. The application of ASC 205-20 had no effect on net income attributable to common stockholders for any period presented therein.
     During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we changed our reportable business segments to (i) senior housing triple-net, (ii) senior housing operating and (iii) medical facilities and reclassified certain assets and related revenues. Senior housing triple-net and senior housing operating were formerly combined and classified as senior housing and care. Accordingly, we have reclassified the relevant amounts and certain assets and revenues to be included in the related business segments in this Current Report to be consistent with the new classification.
     This Current Report also includes changes we have made to address certain comments received from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Those changes include expanded disclosure regarding lease expirations in "Item 2 - Properties" and expanded disclosures in "Item 7  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" regarding senior housing operating partnerships, anticipated sources and uses of cash, capitalization rates of acquisitions and dispositions, off balance sheet debt and leasing activities.
     As a result of the changes mentioned above, the Company is updating portions of "Item 1 - Business," "Item 2  Properties," "Item 6  Selected Financial Data," "Item 7  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." All other information contained in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the other portions of Items 1, 2, 6, 7 and 8 have not been updated or modified (with the exception of certain minor changes to Items 1, 7 and 8 to reflect proper cross-references). For more recent information regarding the Company, please see the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports and information filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission since February 25, 2011. Additionally, the Company is including, for information purposes, Financial Statement Schedules III and IV, which are unchanged from Item 15 of the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. The foregoing items are attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 9, 2011

EXHIBIT 23
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements:
of our report dated February 25, 2011 (except for Notes 5 and 17, as to which the date is August 9, 2011), with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedules of Health Care REIT, Inc. included in this Current Report (Form 8-K) of Health Care REIT, Inc.
/s/ LLP
Ernst & Young
Toledo, Ohio August 9, 2011

EXHIBIT 99.1
Item 1.
Business
General
     Health Care REIT, Inc. is a real estate investment trust ("REIT") that has been at the forefront of senior housing and health care real estate since the company was founded in 1970. We are an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio and our portfolio spans the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate, including senior housing communities, skilled nursing facilities, medical office buildings, inpatient and outpatient medical centers and life science facilities. Our capital programs, when combined with comprehensive planning, development and property management services, make us a single-source solution for acquiring, planning, developing, managing, repositioning and monetizing real estate assets. More information is available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.
     Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest in the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, operator/tenant and geographic location.
     Depending upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is sufficient to fund operations, meet debt service obligations (both principal and interest), make dividend distributions and complete construction projects in process. We also continue to evaluate opportunities to finance future investments. New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, internally generated cash and the proceeds from sales of real property. Our investments generate cash from rent and interest receipts and principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent capital for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under the unsecured line of credit arrangement, has historically been provided through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.
     References herein to "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" refer to Health Care REIT, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless specifically noted otherwise.
Portfolio of Properties
     The following table summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2010:
 
Property Types
     We invest in senior housing and health care real estate. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three business segments  senior housing triple-net, senior housing operating and medical facilities. For additional information regarding business segments, see Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements). The following is a summary of our various property types.
 
Senior Housing Triple-net
     Our senior housing triple-net properties include skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, independent living/continuing care retirement communities and combinations thereof. We invest in senior housing and care real estate primarily through acquisition and development. Excluding our operating partnerships (see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements), properties are primarily leased under triple-net leases and we are not involved in property management. Our properties include stand-alone facilities that provide one level of service, combination facilities that provide multiple levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of services.
     Independent living facilities are age-restricted, multifamily properties with central dining facilities that provide residents access to meals and other services such as housekeeping, linen service, transportation and social and recreational activities.
Independent Living Facilities.
     Continuing care retirement communities include a combination of detached homes, an independent living facility, an assisted living facility and/or a skilled nursing facility on one campus. These communities are appealing to residents because there is no need for relocating when health and medical needs change. Resident payment plans vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services.
Continuing Care Retirement Communities.
     . Early stage senior housing communities contain primarily for-sale single-family homes, townhomes, cluster homes, mobile homes and/or condominiums with no specialized services. These communities are typically restricted or targeted to adults at least 55 years of age or older. Residents generally lead an independent lifestyle. Communities may include amenities such as a clubhouse, golf course and recreational spaces.
Early Stage Senior Housing
     . Assisted living facilities are state regulated rental properties that provide the same services as independent living facilities, but also provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require assistance with activities of daily living, including management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating.
Assisted Living Facilities
     Certain assisted living facilities may include state licensed settings that specialize in caring for those afflicted with Alzheimer's disease and/or other types of dementia.
Alzheimer's/Dementia Care Facilities.
     . Skilled nursing facilities are licensed daily rate or rental properties where the majority of individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement.
Skilled Nursing Facilities
Senior Housing Operating
     Our senior housing operating property types include the same as those in our senior housing triple-net segment. However, these investments are made through partnerships which are involved in property management. The senior housing operating partnerships are formed using the structure authorized by the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 ("RIDEA"). When considering new partnerships utilizing the RIDEA structure, we look for opportunities with best-in-class operators with a strong seasoned leadership team, high-quality real estate in attractive markets, growth potential above the rent escalators in our triple-net lease senior housing portfolio, and alignment of economic interests with our operating partner. Our senior housing operating partnerships offer us the opportunity for external growth because we have the right to fund future senior housing investment opportunities sourced by our operating partners.
Medical Facilities
     Our medical facilities include medical office buildings, hospitals and life science buildings. Our medical office buildings are typically leased to multiple tenants and generally require a certain level of property management. Our hospital investments are typically structured similar to our senior housing triple-net investments. Our life science investments represent investments in an unconsolidated joint venture (see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements).
     . The medical office building portfolio consists of health care related buildings that include physician offices, ambulatory surgery centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or labs. Our portfolio has a strong affiliation with health systems: approximately 80% of the buildings are either located on campus or affiliated with hospitals through a satellite location.
Medical Office Buildings
     . Our hospitals generally include acute care hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation hospitals, and long-term acute care hospitals. Acute care hospitals provide a wide range of inpatient and outpatient services, including, but not limited to, surgery, rehabilitation, therapy and clinical laboratories. Inpatient rehabilitation hospitals provide inpatient services for patients with intensive rehabilitation needs. Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services for patients with complex medical conditions that require more intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than is available in most skilled nursing facilities.
Hospitals
 
Investments
     We invest in senior housing and health care real estate primarily through acquisitions and developments. We diversify our investment portfolio by property type, operator/tenant and geographic location. In determining whether to invest in a property, we focus on the following: (1) the experience of the obligor's management team; (2) the historical and projected financial and operational performance of the property; (3) the credit of the obligor; (4) the security for the lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of the building and its location; and (6) the capital committed to the property by the obligor. We conduct market research and analysis for all potential investments. In addition, we review the value of all properties, the interest rates and covenant requirements of any facility-level debt to be assumed by us at the time of the acquisition and the anticipated sources of repayment of any of the obligor's existing debt that is not to be assumed by us at the time of the acquisition.
     We monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for senior housing triple-net properties generally includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property, periodic review of obligor creditworthiness, periodic property inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property management division actively manages and monitors the medical office building portfolio with a comprehensive process including tenant relations, tenant lease expirations, the mix of health service providers, hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement needs and market conditions among other things. In monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a proprietary database to collect and analyze property-specific data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research to ascertain industry trends and risks.
     Through asset management and research, we evaluate the operating environment in each property's market to determine whether payment risk is likely to increase. When we identify unacceptable levels of payment risk, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk. We categorize the risk as obligor, property or market risk. For obligor risk, we typically find a substitute operator/tenant to run the property. For property risk, we usually work with the operator/tenant to institute property-level management changes to address the risk. Finally, for market risk, we often encourage an obligor to change its capital structure, including refinancing the property or raising additional equity. Through these asset management and research efforts, we are generally able to intervene at an early stage to address payment risk, and in so doing, support both the collectability of revenue and the value of our investment.
     Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate returns to our stockholders.
Investment Types
     Our hospitals and senior housing properties are primarily comprised of land, building, improvements and related rights. Excluding properties in our senior housing operating partnerships (see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements), these properties are generally leased to operators under long-term operating leases. The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of 12 to 15 years and contain one or more five to 15-year renewal options. Certain of our leases also contain purchase options. Most of our rents are received under triple-net leases requiring the operator to pay rent and all additional charges incurred in the operation of the leased property. The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased properties. Substantially all of these operating leases are designed with either fixed or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.
Real Property.
     At December 31, 2010, approximately 91% of our hospitals and senior housing triple-net properties were subject to master leases. A master lease is a lease of multiple properties to one tenant entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire additional properties that are then leased to the tenant under the master lease. The tenant is required to make one monthly payment that represents rent on all the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the master lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the properties or to renew the master lease only with respect to all leased properties at the same time. This bundling feature benefits us because the tenant cannot limit the purchase or renewal to the better performing properties and terminate the leasing arrangement with respect to the poorer performing properties. This spreads our risk among the entire group of properties within the master lease. The bundling feature should provide a similar advantage if the master lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to certain restrictions, a debtor in bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject each of its leases. It is our intent that a tenant in bankruptcy would be required to assume or reject the master lease as a whole, rather than deciding on a property by property basis.
     Our medical office building portfolio is primarily self-managed and consists principally of multi-tenant properties leased to health care providers. Our leases have favorable lease terms that typically include fixed increasers and some form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. As of December 31, 2010, 88% of our portfolio included leases with full pass through, 10% with a partial expense reimbursement (modified gross) and 2% with no expense reimbursement (gross). Our medical office building leases are non-cancellable operating leases that have a weighted average remaining term of 8.5 years at December 31, 2010 and are normally credit enhanced by guaranties and/or letters of credit.
     We currently provide for the construction of properties for tenants generally as part of long-term operating leases. We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used to pay for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the amount advanced during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. We also typically charge a transaction fee at the commencement of construction which we defer and amortize to income over the term of the resulting lease. The construction period commences upon
Construction.
 
funding and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of the applicable property or the end of a specified period. During the construction period, we advance funds to the tenants in accordance with agreed upon terms and conditions which require, among other things, periodic site visits by a Company representative. During the construction period, we generally require an additional credit enhancement in the form of payment and performance bonds and/or completion guaranties. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding construction investments of $356,793,000 and were committed to providing additional funds of approximately $268,055,000 to complete construction for investment properties.
     Our real estate loans are typically structured to provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees and are generally secured by a first, second or third mortgage lien, leasehold mortgage, corporate guaranties and/or personal guaranties. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding real estate loans of $436,580,000. The interest yield averaged approximately 9.1% per annum on our outstanding real estate loan balances. Our yield on real estate loans depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments. The real estate loans outstanding at December 31, 2010 are generally subject to three to 20-year terms with principal amortization schedules and/or balloon payments of the outstanding principal balances at the end of the term. Typically, real estate loans are cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.
Real Estate Loans.
Principles of Consolidation
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint ventures that we control, through voting rights or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
     At inception of the joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting rights ("variable interest entities" or "VIEs") and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A variable interest entity is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity's activities without additional subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. ASC 810 requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated on a continuous basis. This evaluation is based on an enterprise's ability to direct and influence the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact that entity's economic performance.
     For investments in joint ventures, we evaluate the type of rights held by the limited partner(s), which may preclude consolidation in circumstances in which the sole general partner would otherwise consolidate the limited partnership. The assessment of limited partners' rights and their impact on the presumption of control over a limited partnership by the sole general partner should be made when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, (ii) the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership in the limited partnership interests, or (iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited liability companies.
Equity Investments
     Equity investments at December 31, 2010 and 2009 include an investment in a public company that has a readily determinable fair market value. We classify this equity investment as available-for-sale and, accordingly, record this investment at its fair market value with unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of stockholders' equity. Equity investments at December 31, 2010 and 2009 also include an investment in a private company. We do not have the ability to exercise influence over the company, so the investment is accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method of accounting, investments in private companies are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, return of capital and additional investments. These equity investments represent a minimal ownership interest in these companies. Additionally, equity investments at December 31, 2010 include investments in unconsolidated joint ventures.
     Investments in less than majority owned entities where our interests represent a general partnership interest but substantive participating rights or substantive kick-out rights have been granted to the limited partners or when our interests do not represent the general partnership interest and we do not control the major operating and financial policies of the entity are reported under the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method of accounting, our share of the investee's earnings or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures is based on the amount paid to purchase the joint venture interest or the estimated fair value of the assets prior to the sale of interests in the joint venture. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.
Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures.
Borrowing Policies
     We utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Our debt and equity levels are determined by management to maintain a conservative credit profile. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed rate public debt with long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our leases and loans. For short-term purposes, we may borrow on our unsecured line of credit
 
arrangement. We replace these borrowings with long-term capital such as senior unsecured notes, common stock or preferred stock. When terms are deemed favorable, we may invest in properties subject to existing mortgage indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged properties in which we have invested or may refinance properties acquired on a leveraged basis. In our agreements with our lenders, we are subject to restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.
Competition
     We compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships, private equity and hedge fund investors, banks, insurance companies, finance/investment companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and tax-exempt bond funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health care and senior housing properties. Some of our competitors are larger with greater resources and lower costs of capital than us. Increased competition inhibits our ability to identify and successfully complete investments. We compete for investments based on a number of factors including rates, financings offered, underwriting criteria and reputation. Our ability to successfully compete is also impacted by economic and population trends, availability of acceptable investment opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs and new and existing laws and regulations.
     The operators/tenants of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators/tenants of properties that provide comparable services. Operators/tenants compete for patients and residents based on a number of factors including quality of care, reputation, physical appearance of properties, services offered, family preferences, physicians, staff and price. We also face competition from other health care facilities for tenants, such as physicians and other health care providers that provide comparable facilities and services.
     For additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see "Item 1A  Risk Factors" of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Employees
     As of December 31, 2010, we had 263 employees.
Customer Concentrations
     The following table summarizes certain information about our customer concentrations as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands):
 
Certain Government Regulations
Health Law Matters  Generally
     Typically, operators of senior housing facilities do not receive significant funding from government programs and are largely subject to state laws, as opposed to federal laws. Operators of skilled nursing facilities and hospitals do receive significant funding from government programs, and these facilities are subject to the federal and state laws that regulate the type and quality of the medical and/or nursing care provided, ancillary services (, respiratory, occupational, physical and infusion therapies), qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment, reimbursement and rate setting and operating policies. In addition, as described below, operators of these facilities are subject to extensive laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including, but not limited to, the Federal Anti-kickback Statute, the Federal Stark Law, and the Federal False Claims Act, as well as comparable state law counterparts. Hospitals, physician group practice clinics, and other health care providers that operate in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure, registration, certification, and inspection laws, regulations, and industry standards. Our tenants' failure to comply with any of these, and other, laws
e.g.
 
could result in loss of accreditation; denial of reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion from federal and state health care programs; loss of license; or closure of the facility.
Licensing and Certification
     The primary regulations that affect senior housing facilities with assisted living are state licensing and registration laws. In granting and renewing these licenses, the state regulatory agencies consider numerous factors relating to a property's physical plant and operations including, but not limited to, admission and discharge standards, staffing, and training. A decision to grant or renew a license is also affected by a property owner's record with respect to patient and consumer rights, medication guidelines, and rules. Certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us may require the resident to pay an entrance or upfront fee, a portion of which may be refundable. These entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition; establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements, and other financial restrictions; the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time; lien rights in favor of residents; restrictions on change of ownership; and similar matters. Such oversight, and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities, may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities, and, therefore, may adversely affect us.
     Certain health care facilities are subject to a variety of licensure and certificate of need ("CON") laws and regulations. Where applicable, CON laws generally require, among other requirements, that a facility demonstrate the need for (1) constructing a new facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an existing facility, (3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new services, (4) changing the ownership or control of an existing licensed facility, or (5) terminating services that have been previously approved through the CON process. Certain state CON laws and regulations may restrict the ability of operators to add new properties or expand an existing facility's size or services. In addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a new operator. If we have to replace a property operator who is excluded from participating in a federal or state health care program (as discussed below), our ability to replace the operator may be affected by a particular state's CON laws, regulations, and applicable guidance governing changes in provider control.
     With respect to licensure, generally our skilled nursing facilities and acute care facilities are required to be licensed and certified for participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal health care programs. This generally requires license renewals and compliance surveys on an annual or bi-annual basis. The failure of our operators to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory approval, as well as the failure of our operators to correct serious deficiencies identified in a compliance survey could require those operators to discontinue operations at a property. In addition, if a property is found to be out of compliance with the Medicare, Medicaid, or other health care program conditions of participation in, the property operator may be excluded from participating in those government health care programs. Any such occurrence may impair an operators' ability to meet their financial obligations to us. If we have to replace an excluded property operator, our ability to replace the operator may be affected by federal and state laws, regulations, and applicable guidance governing changes in provider control. This may result in payment delays, an inability to find a replacement operator, a significant working capital commitment from us to a new operator or other difficulties.
Reimbursement
     Approximately 37% of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 were attributable to senior housing facilities. The majority of the revenues received by the operators of our senior housing facilities are from private pay sources. The remaining revenue source is primarily Medicaid under certain waiver programs. As a part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act ("OBRA") of 1981, Congress established a waiver program enabling some states to offer Medicaid reimbursement to assisted living providers as an alternative to institutional long-term care services. The provisions of OBRA and the subsequent OBRA Acts of 1987 and 1990 permit states to seek a waiver from typical Medicaid requirements to develop cost-effective alternatives to long-term care, including Medicaid payments for assisted living and home health. As of December 31, 2010, four of our 41 senior housing operators received Medicaid reimbursement pursuant to Medicaid waiver programs. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2010, approximately 9% of the revenues at our senior housing facilities were from Medicaid reimbursement. There can be no guarantee that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to maintain its waiver status.
Senior Housing Facilities.
     Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are determined by local market conditions and operating costs. Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a Medicaid beneficiary who requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to state. Thus, the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may be adversely affected by payor mix, acuity level, changes in Medicaid eligibility, and reimbursement levels. In addition, a state could lose its Medicaid waiver and no longer be permitted to utilize Medicaid dollars to reimburse for assisted living services. Changes in revenues could in turn have a material adverse effect on an operator's ability to meet its obligations to us.
     Skilled nursing facilities and hospitals typically receive most of their revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, with the balance representing reimbursement payments from private payors, including private insurers. Consequently, changes in federal or state reimbursement policies may also adversely affect an operator's ability to cover its
Skilled Nursing Facilities and Hospitals.
 
expenses, including our rent or debt service. Skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are subject to periodic pre- and post-payment reviews, and other audits by federal and state authorities. A review or audit of a property operator's claims could result in recoupments, denials, or delay of payments in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the operator's ability to meet its financial obligations to us. Due to the significant judgments and estimates inherent in payor settlement accounting, no assurance can be given as to the adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators to cover potential adjustments to reimbursements, or to cover settlements made to payors. In fact, in December 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General ("OIG") released a report focusing on skilled nursing facilities' billing practices for Medicare Part A payments, and found that between 2006-2008 skilled nursing facilities increasingly billed for higher paying Resource Utilization Groups ("RUGs"), the payment classification mechanism for the Medicare program, even though beneficiary characteristics remained largely unchanged. In particular, from 2006 to 2008, OIG found that the percentage of RUGs for ultra high therapy increased from 17% to 28%, despite the fact that beneficiaries' ages and diagnoses at admission were largely unchanged during that time period. As a result of the recent attention on skilled nursing billing practices and ongoing government pressure to reduce spending by government health care programs, government health care programs may limit or reduce payments to skilled nursing facilities and hospitals, and, as a result, an operator's ability to meet its financial obligations to us may be significantly impaired.
     For the twelve months ended September 30, 2010, approximately 30% of the revenues at our skilled nursing facilities (which comprised 27% of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010) were paid by Medicare. Skilled nursing facilities are reimbursed under the Medicare Skilled Nursing Facility Prospective Payment System ("SNF PPS"). There is a risk that some skilled nursing facilities' costs will exceed the fixed payments under the SNF PPS, and there is also a risk that payments under the SNF PPS may be set below the costs to provide certain items and services, which could result in immediate financial difficulties for skilled nursing facilities, and could cause operators to seek bankruptcy protection. Skilled nursing facilities have faced these types of difficulties since the implementation of the SNF PPS.
Medicare Reimbursement and Skilled Nursing Facilities.
     Skilled nursing facilities received a net 1.1% Medicare payment rate decrease for federal fiscal year 2010. This 1.1% net decrease is the result of a 3.3% decrease in payments due to recalibration of the case-mix indexes combined with a 2.2% increase in payments through "market basket" changes for fiscal year 2010. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS"), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS"), has announced its intention to make a positive payment update for skilled nursing facilities for fiscal year 2011  a net 1.7% increase resulting from a 2.3% market basket update less a 0.6% forecasting error adjustment. Section 5008 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 directs the Secretary of HHS to conduct a demonstration program, for a three year period, beginning January 1, 2008, assessing the costs and outcomes of patients discharged from hospitals in a variety of post-acute care settings, including skilled nursing facilities. The outcome of that demonstration program could lead to changes in Medicare coverage and reimbursement for post-acute care. Because the results of the demonstration have not yet been finalized, we cannot predict the potential financial implications those results, or any other proposed changes to the Medicare program, may have on our operators or tenants.
     The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 mandated caps on Medicare reimbursement for certain therapy services. However, Congress imposed various moratoriums on the implementation of those caps. For 2011, the annual payment cap of $1,870 per patient applies to occupational therapy and a separate $1,870 cap applies to speech and physical therapy. Congress has permitted patients exceeding the cap to obtain additional Medicare coverage through a waiver program if the therapy is deemed medically necessary. The waiver program was historically extended, most recently, on December 15, 2010, by the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act (HR 4994), which extended the waiver program through December 31, 2011. Prior to the recent legislation, the program was scheduled to expire December 31, 2010. If the exception expires, patients will need to use private funds to pay for the cost of therapy above the caps. If patients are unable to satisfy their out-of-pocket cost responsibility to reimburse an operator for services rendered, the operator's ability to meet its financial obligations to us could be adversely impacted.
     For the twelve months ended September 30, 2010, approximately 56% of the revenues at our hospitals (which comprised 8% of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010) were from Medicare reimbursements. Hospitals, generally, are reimbursed by Medicare under the Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System ("PPS"), the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System ("OPPS"), the Long Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment System ("LTCH PPS"), or the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System ("IRF PPS"). Acute care hospitals provide a wide range of inpatient and outpatient services including, but not limited to, surgery, rehabilitation, therapy, and clinical laboratory services. Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services for patients with medical conditions that are often complex and that require more intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than that available in most skilled nursing facilities. Inpatient rehabilitation facilities provide intensive rehabilitation services in an inpatient setting for patients requiring at least three hours of rehabilitation services a day.
Medicare Reimbursement and Hospitals.
     With respect to Medicare's PPS for regular hospitals, reimbursement for inpatient services is made on the basis of a fixed, prospective rate, based on the principal diagnosis of the patient. Hospitals may be at risk to the extent that their costs in treating a specific case exceed the fixed payment amount. The diagnosis related group ("DRG") reimbursement system was updated in 2008 to expand the number of DRGs from 538 to 745 in order to better distinguish more severe conditions. One additional DRG was added in 2009, for a new total of 746. In some cases, a hospital might be able to qualify for an outlier payment if the hospital's losses exceed a threshold.
     Medicaid is a major payor source for residents in our skilled nursing facilities and hospitals. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2010, approximately 51% of the revenues of our skilled nursing facilities and 4% of the revenues
Medicaid Reimbursement.
 
of our hospitals were attributable to Medicaid reimbursement payments. The federal and state governments share responsibility for financing Medicaid. The federal matching rate, known as the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage ("FMAP"), varies by state based on relative per capita income, but is at least 50% in all states. On average, Medicaid is the largest component of total state spending, representing approximately 21% of total state spending. The percentage of Medicaid dollars used for long-term care varies from state to state, due in part to different ratios of elderly population and eligibility requirements. Within certain federal guidelines, states have a fairly wide range of discretion to determine eligibility and reimbursement methodology. Many states reimburse long-term care facilities using fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based on patient acuity and the historical costs incurred in providing patient care. Reasonable costs typically include allowances for staffing, administrative and general expenses, property, and equipment (, real estate taxes, depreciation and fair rental).
e.g.
     In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse the cost of providing skilled nursing services. Certain states are attempting to slow the rate of growth in Medicaid expenditures by freezing rates or restricting eligibility and benefits. As of the beginning of state fiscal year 2011, states in which we have skilled nursing property investments held rates flat on average for the year. Our skilled nursing portfolio's average Medicaid rate will likely vary throughout the year as states continue to make interim changes to their budgets and Medicaid funding. In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may decline if revenues in a particular state are not sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures. President Obama's proposed fiscal year budget for 2012, released on February 14, 2011, has the potential to further impact Medicaid reimbursement rates. The President's budget includes a proposal to phase down the Medicaid provider tax, a tax paid by health care providers to help fund state Medicaid programs, beginning with a reduction of 4.5% in fiscal year 2015. If the President's proposal is implemented, the various state Medicaid programs will receive less funds, which could adversely affect our operators and tenants.
     The Medicare Part D drug benefit became effective January 1, 2006. Since that date, low-income Medicare beneficiaries (eligible for both Medicare and full Medicaid benefits), including those nursing home residents who are dually eligible for both programs, may enroll and receive outpatient prescription drugs under Medicare, not Medicaid. Medicare Part D has resulted in increased administrative responsibilities for nursing home operators because enrollment in Medicare Part D is voluntary and residents must choose between multiple prescription drug plans. Operators may also experience increased expenses to the extent that a particular drug prescribed to a patient is not listed on the Medicare Part D drug plan formulary for the plan in which the patient is enrolled.
     The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to evolve. Federal and state authorities have considered and may seek to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property operations. The impact of any such changes, if implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our skilled nursing and hospital property operations. No assurance can be given that current revenue sources or levels will be maintained. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that payments under a government health care program are currently, or will be in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property operators for their operating and capital expenses. As a result, an operator's ability to meet its financial obligations to us could be adversely impacted.
     Finally, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ("PPACA") and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, the "Health Reform Laws") (further discussed below).may have a significant impact on Medicare, Medicaid, other federal health care programs, and private insurers, which impact the reimbursement amounts received by skilled nursing facilities and other health care providers. The Health Reform Laws could have a substantial and material adverse effect on all parties directly or indirectly involved in the health care system.
Other Related Laws
     Skilled nursing facilities and hospitals (and senior housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to federal, state, and local laws, regulations, and applicable guidance that govern the operations and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by health care providers. Certain of these laws prohibit direct or indirect payments of any kind for the purpose of inducing or encouraging the referral of patients for medical products or services reimbursable by government health care programs. Other laws require providers to furnish only medically necessary services and submit to the government valid and accurate statements for each service. Still, other laws require providers to comply with a variety of safety, health and other requirements relating to the condition of the licensed property and the quality of care provided. Sanctions for violations of these laws, regulations, and other applicable guidance may include, but are not limited to, criminal and/or civil penalties and fines, loss of licensure, immediate termination of government payments, and exclusion from any government health care program. In certain circumstances, violation of these rules (such as those prohibiting abusive and fraudulent behavior) with respect to one property may subject other facilities under common control or ownership to sanctions, including exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as other government health care programs. In the ordinary course of its business, a property operator is regularly subjected to inquiries, investigations, and audits by the federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and regulations.
     All health care providers, including, but not limited to skilled nursing facilities and hospitals (and senior housing facilities that receives Medicaid payments) are also subject to the Federal Anti-kickback Statute, which generally prohibits persons from offering, providing, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual or the furnishing of a good or service for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. Skilled nursing facilities and
 
hospitals are also subject to the Federal Ethics in Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the Stark Law. The Stark Law generally prohibits the submission of claims to Medicare for payment if the claim results from a physician referral for certain designated services and the physician has a financial relationship with the health service provider that does not qualify under one of the exceptions for a financial relationship under the Stark Law. Similar prohibitions on physician self-referrals and submission of claims apply to state Medicaid programs. Further, health care providers, including, but not limited to, skilled nursing facilities and hospitals (and senior housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments), are subject to substantial financial penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the Federal False Claims Act and, in particular, actions under the Federal False Claims Act's "whistleblower" provisions. Private enforcement of health care fraud has increased due in large part to amendments to the Federal False Claims Act that encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These whistleblower suits brought by private individuals, known as qui tam actions, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and former patients, nurses and other employees. Such whistleblower actions have been brought against nursing facilities on the basis of the alleged failure of the nursing facility to meet applicable regulations relating to its operations. Significantly, if a claim is successfully adjudicated, the Federal False Claims Act provides for treble damages up to $11,000 per claim.
     Prosecutions, investigations, or whistleblower actions could have a material adverse effect on a property operator's liquidity, financial condition, and operations, which could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet its financial obligations to us. Finally, various state false claim act and anti-kickback laws may also apply to each property operator. Violation of any of the foregoing statutes can result in criminal and/or civil penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its financial obligations to us.
     Other legislative developments over the past several years, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), have greatly expanded the definition of health care fraud and related offenses and broadened its scope to include private health care plans in addition to government payors. Congress also has greatly increased funding for the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services to audit, investigate and prosecute suspected health care fraud. Moreover, a significant portion of the billions in health care fraud recoveries over the past several years has also been returned to government agencies to further fund their fraud investigation and prosecution efforts.
     Additionally, other HIPAA provisions and regulations provide for communication of health information through standard electronic transaction formats and for the privacy and security of health information. In order to comply with the regulations, health care providers often must undertake significant operational and technical implementation efforts. Operators also may face significant financial exposure if they fail to maintain the privacy and security of medical records and other personal health information about individuals. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health ("HITECH") Act, passed in February 2009, strengthened the HHS Secretary's authority to impose civil money penalties for HIPAA violations occurring after February 18, 2009. HITECH directs the HHS Secretary to provide for periodic audits to ensure covered entities and their business associates (as that term is defined under HIPAA) comply with the applicable HITECH requirements, increasing the likelihood that a HIPAA violation will result in an enforcement action. CMS issued an interim Final Rule which conformed HIPAA enforcement regulations to the HITECH Act, increasing the maximum penalty for multiple violations of a single requirement or prohibition to $1.5 million. Higher penalties may accrue for violations of multiple requirements or prohibitions. HIPAA violations are also potentially subject to criminal penalties.
     In November 2002, CMS began an ongoing national Nursing Home Quality Initiative (NHQI). Under this initiative, historical survey information, the NHQI Pilot Evaluation Report and the NHQI Overview is made available to the public on-line. The NHQI website provides consumer and provider information regarding the quality of care in nursing homes. The data allows consumers, providers, states, and researchers to compare quality information that shows how well nursing homes are caring for their residents' physical and clinical needs. The posted nursing home quality measures come from resident assessment data that nursing homes routinely collect on the residents at specified intervals during their stay. If the operators of nursing facilities are unable to achieve quality of care ratings that are comparable or superior to those of their competitors, they may lose market share to other facilities, reducing their revenues and adversely impacting their ability to make rental payments.
     Finally, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against the health care industry have increased dramatically over the past several years and are expected to continue. Some of these enforcement actions represent novel legal theories and expansions in the application of the Federal False Claims Act. The costs for an operator of a health care property associated with both defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.
Taxation
Federal Income Tax Considerations
     The following summary of the taxation of the Company and the material federal tax consequences to the holders of our debt and equity securities is for general information only and is not tax advice. This summary does not address all aspects of taxation that may
 
be relevant to certain types of holders of stock or securities (including, but not limited to, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers, persons holding shares of common stock as part of a hedging, integrated conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in securities that use a mark-to-market method of accounting for their securities, investors in pass-through entities and foreign corporations and persons who are not citizens or residents of the United States).
     This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your particular investment or other circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss any state or local income taxation or foreign income taxation or other tax consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax law. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including changes in law or differing interpretations, which may be applied retroactively, could have a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our securities as set forth in this summary. Before you purchase our securities, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding the particular U.S. federal, state, local, foreign and other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our securities.
General
     We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (a "REIT") commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for subsequent years. Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety of qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with respect to income, assets, distribution level and diversity of share ownership as discussed below under " Qualification as a REIT." There can be no assurance that we will be owned and organized and will operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified.
     In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general, we will not be subject to federal income tax on that portion of our REIT taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. We may, however, be subject to tax at normal corporate rates on any taxable income or capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our net long-term capital gain, stockholders are required to include their proportionate share of our undistributed long-term capital gain in income, but they will receive a refundable credit for their share of any taxes paid by us on such gain.
     Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to federal income and excise tax as follows:
     If we acquire any assets from a corporation, which is or has been a "C" corporation, in a carryover basis transaction, we could be liable for specified liabilities that are inherited from the "C" corporation. A "C" corporation is generally defined as a corporation that is required to pay full corporate level federal income tax. If we recognize gain on the disposition of the assets during the ten-year
 
period beginning on the date on which the assets were acquired by us, then, to the extent of the assets' "built-in gain" (i.e., the excess of the fair market value of the asset over the adjusted tax basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the beginning of the ten-year period), we will be subject to tax on the gain at the highest regular corporate rate applicable. The results described in this paragraph with respect to the recognition of built-in gain assume that the built-in gain assets, at the time the built-in gain assets were subject to a conversion transaction (either where a "C" corporation elected REIT status or a REIT acquired the assets from a "C" corporation), were not treated as sold to an unrelated party and gain recognized. Effective December 30, 2010, we acquired 19 assets that are subject to built-in gains tax until December 2020. See Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the built-in gains tax.
Qualification as a REIT
     A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or association:
     Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. For purposes of conditions (5) and (6), pension funds and certain other tax-exempt entities are treated as individuals, subject to a "look-through" exception in the case of condition (6).
     Based on publicly available information, we believe we have satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and (6) above. In addition, Article VI of our Amended and Restated By-Laws provides for restrictions regarding ownership and transfer of shares. These restrictions are intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share ownership requirements described in (5) and (6) above. These restrictions, however, may not ensure that we will, in all cases, be able to satisfy the share ownership requirements described in (5) and (6) above.
     We have complied with, and will continue to comply with, regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our stockholders requesting information regarding the actual ownership of our stock. If, despite sending the annual letters, we do not know, or after exercising reasonable diligence would not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer Requirement, we will be treated as having met the Five or Fewer Requirement. If we fail to comply with these regulatory rules, we will be subject to a monetary penalty. If our failure to comply was due to intentional disregard of the requirement, the penalty would be increased. However, if our failure to comply were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be imposed.
     We may own a number of properties through wholly owned subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a "qualified REIT subsidiary" if 100% of its stock is owned by a REIT, and the REIT does not elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A "qualified REIT subsidiary" will not be treated as a separate corporation, and all assets, liabilities and items of income, deductions and credits of a "qualified REIT subsidiary" will be treated as assets, liabilities and items (as the case may be) of the REIT. A "qualified REIT subsidiary" is not subject to federal income tax, and our ownership of the voting stock of a qualified REIT subsidiary will not violate the restrictions against ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more than 10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer or more than 5% of the value of our total assets, as described below under " Asset Tests."
     If we invest in a partnership, a limited liability company or a trust taxed as a partnership or as a disregarded entity, we will be deemed to own a proportionate share of the partnership's, limited liability company's or trust's assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving our share of the income and loss of the partnership, limited liability company or trust, and the gross income will retain the same character in our hands as it has in the hands of the partnership, limited liability company or trust. These "look-through" rules apply for purposes of the income tests and assets tests described below.
 
     There are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that we must satisfy for each taxable year.
Income Tests.
     For taxable years beginning on or before October 22, 2004, (1) payments to us under an interest rate swap or cap agreement, option, futures contract, forward rate agreement or any similar financial instrument entered into by us to reduce interest rate risk on indebtedness incurred or to be incurred and (2) gain from the sale or other disposition of any such investment are treated as income qualifying under the 95% gross income test. As to transactions entered into in taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, any of our income from a "clearly identified" hedging transaction that is entered into by us in the normal course of business, directly or indirectly, to manage the risk of interest rate movements, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be incurred by us, or such other risks that are prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, is excluded from the 95% gross income test.
     For transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, any of our income from a "clearly identified" hedging transaction that is entered into by us in the normal course of business, directly or indirectly, to manage the risk of interest rate movements, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be incurred by us is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.
     For transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, any of our income from a "clearly identified" hedging transaction entered into by us primarily to manage risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that is included in gross income in the 95% and 75% gross income tests is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.
     In general, a hedging transaction is "clearly identified" if (1) the transaction is identified as a hedging transaction before the end of the day on which it is entered into and (2) the items or risks being hedged are identified "substantially contemporaneously" with the hedging transaction. An identification is not substantially contemporaneous if it is made more than 35 days after entering into the hedging transaction.
     As to gains and items of income recognized after July 30, 2008, "passive foreign exchange gain" for any taxable year will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test and "real estate foreign exchange gain" for any taxable year will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. Real estate foreign exchange gain is foreign currency gain (as defined in Internal Revenue Code section 988(b)(1)) which is attributable to: (i) any qualifying item of income or gain for purposes of the 75% gross income test; (ii) the acquisition or ownership of obligations secured by mortgages on real property or interests in real property; or (iii) becoming or being the obligor under obligations secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real property. Real estate foreign exchange gain also includes Internal Revenue Code section 987 gain attributable to a qualified business unit (a "QBU") of a REIT if the QBU itself meets the 75% income test for the taxable year and the 75% asset test at the close of each quarter that the REIT has directly or indirectly held the QBU. Real estate foreign exchange gain also includes any other foreign currency gain as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury. Passive foreign exchange gain includes all real estate foreign exchange gain and foreign currency gain which is attributable to: (i) any qualifying item of income or gain for purposes of the 95% gross income test; (ii) the acquisition or ownership of obligations; (iii) becoming or being the obligor under obligations; and (iv) any other foreign currency gain as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.
     Generally, other than income from "clearly identified" hedging transactions entered into by us in the normal course of business, any foreign currency gain derived by us from dealing, or engaging in substantial and regular trading, in securities will constitute gross income which does not qualify under the 95% or 75% gross income tests.
     Rents received by us will qualify as "rents from real property" for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests for a REIT only if several conditions are met:
 
     For taxable years beginning after August 5, 1997, a REIT has been permitted to render a de minimis amount of impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts received with respect to that property as rent from real property. The amount received or accrued by the REIT during the taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to a property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by the REIT directly or indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service or management operation for this purpose shall be deemed to be not less than 150% of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or providing the management or operation. Furthermore, impermissible services may be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain conditions, and we may still treat rents received with respect to the property as rent from real property.
     The term "interest" generally does not include any amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person, although an amount generally will not be excluded from the term "interest" solely by reason of being based on a fixed percentage of receipts or sales.
     If we fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for such year if we are eligible for relief. For taxable years beginning on or before October 22, 2004, these relief provisions generally will be available if: (1) our failure to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we attach a schedule of the sources of our income to our return; and (3) any incorrect information on the schedule was not due to fraud with intent to evade tax. For taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, these relief provisions generally will be available if (1) following our identification of the failure, we file a schedule for such taxable year describing each item of our gross income, and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.
     It is not now possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a 100% tax is imposed on an amount equal to (a) the gross income attributable to (1) 75% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% income test and (2) 95% of our gross income (90% of our gross income for taxable years beginning on or before October 22, 2004) over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by (b) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability.
     The Secretary of the Treasury is given broad authority to determine whether particular items of income or gain qualify or not under the 75% and 95% gross income tests, or are to be excluded from the measure of gross income for such purposes.
     Within 30 days after the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy several tests relating to the nature and diversification of our assets determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets, cash, cash items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our operation), government securities and qualified temporary investments. Although the remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction, we are prohibited from owning securities representing more than 10% of either the vote (the "10% vote test") or value (the "10% value test") of the outstanding securities of any issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Further, no more than 25% of the total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (the "25% asset test") and no more than 5% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of any non-governmental issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary (the "5% asset test"), another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test and the 25% and 5% asset tests must be satisfied at the end of each quarter. There are special rules which provide relief if the value related tests are not satisfied due to changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.
Asset Tests.
     For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, certain items are excluded from the 10% value test, including: (1) straight debt securities of an issuer (including straight debt that provides certain contingent payments); (2) any loan to an individual or an
 
estate; (3) any rental agreement described in Section 467 of the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a "related person"; (4) any obligation to pay rents from real property; (5) certain securities issued by a state or any subdivision thereof, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, or any political subdivision thereof, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; (6) any security issued by a REIT; and (7) any other arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, is excepted from the definition of security ("excluded securities"). Special rules apply to straight debt securities issued by corporations and entities taxable as partnerships for federal income tax purposes. If a REIT, or its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds (1) straight debt securities of a corporate or partnership issuer and (2) securities of such issuer that are not excluded securities and have an aggregate value greater than 1% of such issuer's outstanding securities, the straight debt securities will be included in the 10% value test.
     For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, a REIT's interest as a partner in a partnership is not treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value test to securities issued by the partnership. Further, any debt instrument issued by a partnership will not be a security for purposes of applying the 10% value test (1) to the extent of the REIT's interest as a partner in the partnership and (2) if at least 75% of the partnership's gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would qualify for the 75% gross income test. For taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, for purposes of the 10% value test, a REIT's interest in a partnership's assets is determined by the REIT's proportionate interest in any securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded securities described in the preceding paragraph).
     For taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008, if the REIT or its QBU uses a foreign currency as its functional currency, the term "cash" includes such foreign currency, but only to the extent such foreign currency is (i) held for use in the normal course of the activities of the REIT or QBU which give rise to items of income or gain that are included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are directly related to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under the 75% asset test, and (ii) not held in connection with dealing or engaging in substantial and regular trading in securities.
     With respect to corrections of failures for which the requirements for corrections are satisfied after October 22, 2004, regardless of whether such failures occurred in taxable years beginning on, before or after such date, as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test or the 5% asset test, a REIT may avoid disqualification as a REIT by disposing of sufficient assets to cure a violation that does not exceed the lesser of 1% of the REIT's assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided that the disposition occurs within six months following the last day of the quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets. For violations of any of the REIT asset tests due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect that exceed the thresholds described in the preceding sentence, a REIT can avoid disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter by taking certain steps, including disposition of sufficient assets within the six month period described above to meet the applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period of time that the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and filing a schedule with the Internal Revenue Service that describes the non-qualifying assets.
     For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, REITs may own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in taxable REIT subsidiaries. We and any taxable corporate entity in which we own an interest are allowed to jointly elect to treat such entity as a "taxable REIT subsidiary."
Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.
     Certain of our subsidiaries have elected to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to full corporate level federal taxation on their earnings but are permitted to engage in certain types of activities that cannot be performed directly by REITs without jeopardizing their REIT status. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries will attempt to minimize the amount of these taxes, but there can be no assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to minimize taxes will be successful. To the extent our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to pay federal, state or local taxes, the cash available for distribution as dividends to us from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.
     The amount of interest on related-party debt that a taxable REIT subsidiary may deduct is limited. Further, a 100% tax applies to any interest payments by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its affiliated REIT to the extent the interest rate is not commercially reasonable. A taxable REIT subsidiary is permitted to deduct interest payments to unrelated parties without any of these restrictions.
     The Internal Revenue Service may reallocate costs between a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiary where there is a lack of arm's-length dealing between the parties. Any deductible expenses allocated away from a taxable REIT subsidiary would increase its tax liability. Further, any amount by which a REIT understates its deductions and overstates those of its taxable REIT subsidiary will, subject to certain exceptions, be subject to a 100% tax. Additional taxable REIT subsidiary elections may be made in the future for additional entities in which we own an interest.
     In order to avoid being taxed as a regular corporation, we are required to make distributions (other than capital gain distributions) to our stockholders which qualify for the dividends paid deduction in an amount at least equal to (1) the sum of (i) 90% of our "REIT taxable income" (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the after-tax net income, if any, from foreclosure property, minus (2) a portion of certain items of non-cash income. These distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared before we timely file our tax return for that year and if paid on or before the first regular distribution payment after such declaration. The amount distributed must not be preferential. This means that every stockholder of the class of stock to which a distribution is made must be treated the same as every other stockholder of that class, and no class of stock may be treated otherwise than in accordance with its dividend rights as a class. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our "REIT taxable income," as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax
Annual Distribution Requirements.
 
rates. Finally, as discussed above, we may be subject to an excise tax if we fail to meet certain other distribution requirements. We intend to make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual distribution requirements.
     It is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or to distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to, among other things, (1) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of income and deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (2) the payment of severance benefits that may not be deductible to us. In the event that timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for borrowings or, if possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock dividends in order to meet the distribution requirement.
     Under certain circumstances, in the event of a deficiency determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be able to rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement for a year by paying "deficiency dividends" to stockholders in a later year, which may be included in our deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year. Thus, we may be able to avoid being taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency dividends; however, we will be required to pay applicable penalties and interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency dividend distributions.
     The Internal Revenue Service issued Revenue Procedure 2008-68, which provided temporary relief to publicly traded REITs seeking to preserve liquidity by electing cash/stock dividends. Under Revenue Procedure 2008-68, a REIT may treat the entire dividend, including the stock portion, as a taxable dividend distribution, thereby qualifying for the dividends-paid deduction, provided certain requirements are satisfied. The cash portion of the dividend may be as low as 10%. Revenue Procedure 2008-68, as amplified by Revenue Procedure 2010-12, applies to dividends declared on or before December 31, 2012, and with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2011.
Failure to Qualify as a REIT
     If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT will not be deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions be required to be made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these distributions and, subject to certain limitations, will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. It is not possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to statutory relief. Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need to incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to pay potentially significant resulting tax liabilities.
     In addition to the relief described above under " Income Tests" and " Asset Tests," relief is available in the event that we violate a provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would result in our failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we pay a penalty of $50,000 for each failure to satisfy the provision; and (3) the violation does not include a violation described under " Income Tests" or " Asset Tests" above. It is not now possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions.
Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock
     The following summary applies to you only if you are a "U.S. stockholder." A "U.S. stockholder" is a holder of shares of stock who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is:
Treatment of Taxable U.S. Stockholders.
     So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT, distributions on shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these distributions (and not designated as capital gain dividends) will be includable as ordinary income for federal income tax purposes. None of these distributions will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for U.S. corporate stockholders.
 
     Generally, for taxable years ending after May 6, 2003 through December 31, 2012, the maximum marginal rate of tax payable by individuals on dividends received from corporations that are subject to a corporate level of tax is 15%. Except in limited circumstances, this tax rate will not apply to dividends paid to you by us on our shares, because generally we are not subject to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable income or capital gains distributed to our stockholders. The reduced maximum federal income tax rate will apply to that portion, if any, of dividends received by you with respect to our shares that are attributable to: (1) dividends received by us from non-REIT corporations or other taxable REIT subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior year with respect to which we were required to pay federal corporate income tax during the prior year (if, for example, we did not distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income for the prior year); or (3) the amount of any earnings and profits that were distributed by us and accumulated in a non-REIT year.
     Distributions that are designated as capital gain dividends will be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year), without regard to the period for which you held our stock. However, if you are a corporation, you may be required to treat a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary income.
     If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net long-term capital gain, you would include in income, as long-term capital gain, your proportionate share of this net long-term capital gain. You would also receive a refundable tax credit for your proportionate share of the tax paid by us on such retained capital gains, and you would have an increase in the basis of your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable capital gains less your share of the tax deemed paid.
     You may not include in your federal income tax return any of our net operating losses or capital losses. Federal income tax rules may also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and preferences be apportioned to you. In addition, any distribution declared by us in October, November or December of any year on a specified date in any such month shall be treated as both paid by us and received by you on December 31 of that year, provided that the distribution is actually paid by us no later than January 31 of the following year.
     We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and profits to treat as a dividend any distribution up to the amount required to be distributed in order to avoid imposition of the 4% excise tax discussed under " General" and " Qualification as a REIT  Annual Distribution Requirements" above. As a result, you may be required to treat as taxable dividends certain distributions that would otherwise result in a tax-free return of capital. Moreover, any "deficiency dividend" will be treated as a dividend (an ordinary dividend or a capital gain dividend, as the case may be), regardless of our earnings and profits. Any other distributions in excess of current or accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to you to the extent these distributions do not exceed the adjusted tax basis of your shares of our stock. You will be required to reduce the tax basis of your shares of our stock by the amount of these distributions until the basis has been reduced to zero, after which these distributions will be taxable as capital gain, if the shares of our stock are held as capital assets. The tax basis as so reduced will be used in computing the capital gain or loss, if any, realized upon sale of the shares of our stock. Any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our stock which were held for six months or less (after application of certain holding period rules) will generally be treated as a long-term capital loss to the extent you previously received capital gain distributions with respect to these shares of our stock.
     Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock to or with a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of our stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us, you will generally recognize capital gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of our stock. This gain will be capital gain if you held these shares of our stock as a capital asset.
     If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment can only be determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of redemption. In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as opposed to dividend income) equal to the difference between the amount received by you in the redemption and your adjusted tax basis in your shares redeemed if such redemption: (1) results in a "complete termination" of your interest in all classes of our equity securities; (2) is a "substantially disproportionate redemption"; or (3) is "not essentially equivalent to a dividend" with respect to you. In applying these tests, you must take into account your ownership of all classes of our equity securities (e.g., common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants). You also must take into account any equity securities that are considered to be constructively owned by you.
     If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares, you no longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity securities or only own (actually and constructively) an insubstantial percentage of our equity securities, then it is probable that the redemption of your shares would be considered "not essentially equivalent to a dividend" and, thus, would result in gain or loss to you. However, whether a distribution is "not essentially equivalent to a dividend" depends on all of the facts and circumstances, and if you rely on any of these tests at the time of redemption, you should consult your tax advisor to determine their application to the particular situation.
     Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests described above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of your shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a dividend to the extent of the allocable portion of current or accumulated earnings and profits. If the redemption is taxed as a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed shares will be transferred to any
 
other shareholdings in us that you own. If you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain circumstances, such basis may be transferred to a related person, or it may be lost entirely.
     Gain from the sale or exchange of our shares held for more than one year is taxed at a maximum long-term capital gain rate, which is currently 15%. Pursuant to Internal Revenue Service guidance, we may classify portions of our capital gain dividends as gains eligible for the long-term capital gains rate or as gain taxable to individual stockholders at a maximum rate of 25%.
     On March 30, 2010, the President signed into law the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which requires U.S. stockholders who meet certain requirements and are individuals, estates or certain trusts to pay an additional 3.8% tax on, among other things, dividends on and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of stock for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012. U.S. stockholders should consult their tax advisors regarding the effect, if any, of this legislation on their ownership and disposition of shares of our stock.
     Tax-exempt entities, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts and individual retirement accounts ("Exempt Organizations"), generally are exempt from federal income taxation. However, they are subject to taxation on their unrelated business taxable income ("UBTI"). The Internal Revenue Service has issued a published revenue ruling that dividend distributions from a REIT to an exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the exempt employee pension trust. Based on this ruling, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of the shares of our stock with debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the "debt financed property" rules. Likewise, a portion of the Exempt Organization's income from us would constitute UBTI if we held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit.
Treatment of Tax-Exempt U.S. Stockholders.
     In addition, in certain circumstances, a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a percentage of our dividends as UBTI. This rule applies to a pension trust holding more than 10% of our stock only if: (1) the percentage of our income that is UBTI (determined as if we were a pension trust) is at least 5%; (2) we qualify as a REIT by reason of the modification of the Five or Fewer Requirement that allows beneficiaries of the pension trust to be treated as holding shares in proportion to their actuarial interests in the pension trust; and (3) either (i) one pension trust owns more than 25% of the value of our stock, or (ii) a group of pension trusts individually holding more than 10% of the value of our stock collectively own more than 50% of the value of our stock.
     Under certain circumstances, you may be subject to backup withholding at applicable rates on payments made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange of, shares of our stock. Backup withholding will apply only if you: (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.
     Backup withholding will not apply with respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and tax-exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor regarding qualification for exemption from backup withholding, and the procedure for obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the amount of any backup withholding with respect to a payment to a stockholder will be allowed as a credit against such stockholder's United States federal income tax liability and may entitle such stockholder to a refund, provided that the required information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service. In addition, withholding a portion of capital gain distributions made to stockholders may be required for stockholders who fail to certify their non-foreign status.
     The following summary applies to you only if you are a foreign person. The federal taxation of foreign persons is a highly complex matter that may be affected by many considerations.
Taxation of Foreign Stockholders.
     Except as discussed below, distributions to you of cash generated by our real estate operations in the form of ordinary dividends, but not by the sale or exchange of our capital assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30%, unless an applicable tax treaty reduces that tax and you file with us the required form evidencing the lower rate.
     In general, you will be subject to United States federal income tax on a graduated rate basis rather than withholding with respect to your investment in our stock if such investment is "effectively connected" with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States. A corporate foreign stockholder that receives income that is, or is treated as, effectively connected with a United States trade or business may also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in addition to regular United States corporate income tax. The following discussion will apply to foreign stockholders whose investment in us is not so effectively connected. We expect to withhold United States income tax, as described below, on the gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless (1) you file an Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI with us claiming that the distribution is "effectively connected" or (2) certain other exceptions apply.
     Distributions by us that are attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a United States real property interest will be taxed to you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 ("FIRPTA") as if these distributions were gains "effectively connected" with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, you will be taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. stockholder on these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the
 
case of nonresident alien individuals. Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be subject to a branch profits tax in the hands of a corporate foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty exemption.
     We will be required to withhold from distributions subject to FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal Revenue Service, 35% of designated capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 35% of the amount of any distributions that could be designated as capital gain dividends. In addition, if we designate prior distributions as capital gain dividends, subsequent distributions, up to the amount of the prior distributions not withheld against, will be treated as capital gain dividends for purposes of withholding.
     For taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, any capital gain dividend with respect to any class of stock that is "regularly traded" on an established securities market will be treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign stockholder did not own more than 5% of such class of stock at any time during the taxable year. Once this provision takes effect, foreign stockholders generally will not be required to report distributions received from us on U.S. federal income tax returns and all distributions treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes including any capital gain dividend will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax (unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty) as discussed above. In addition, the branch profits tax will no longer apply to such distributions.
     Unless our shares constitute a "United States real property interest" within the meaning of FIRPTA or are effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, a sale of our shares by you generally will not be subject to United States taxation. Our shares will not constitute a United States real property interest if we qualify as a "domestically controlled REIT." We believe that we, and expect to continue to, qualify as a domestically controlled REIT. A domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all times during a specified testing period less than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or indirectly by foreign stockholders. However, if you are a nonresident alien individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year and certain other conditions apply, you will be subject to a 30% tax on such capital gains. In any event, a purchaser of our shares from you will not be required under FIRPTA to withhold on the purchase price if the purchased shares are "regularly traded" on an established securities market or if we are a domestically controlled REIT. Otherwise, under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be required to withhold 10% of the purchase price and remit such amount to the Internal Revenue Service.
     Backup withholding tax and information reporting will generally not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States that are treated as: (1) dividends to which the 30% or lower treaty rate withholding tax discussed above applies; (2) capital gains dividends; or (3) distributions attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of U.S. real property interests. Payment of the proceeds of a sale of stock within the United States or conducted through certain U.S. related financial intermediaries is subject to both backup withholding and information reporting unless the beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that he or she is not a U.S. person (and the payor does not have actual knowledge that the beneficial owner is a U.S. person) or otherwise established an exemption. You may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund with the Internal Revenue Service.
     Recently enacted legislation will require, after December 31, 2012, withholding at a rate of 30% on dividends in respect of, and gross proceeds from the sale of, shares of our stock held by or through certain foreign financial institutions (including investment funds), unless such institution enters into an agreement with the Secretary of the Treasury to report, on an annual basis, information with respect to shares in the institution held by certain U.S. persons and by certain non-U.S. entities that are wholly or partially owned by U.S. persons, and to withhold on certain payments. Accordingly, the entity through which shares of stock is held will affect the determination of whether such withholding is required. Similarly, dividends in respect of, and gross proceeds from the sale of, shares of our stock held by an investor that is a non-financial non-U.S. entity will be subject to withholding at a rate of 30%, unless such entity either (i) certifies to us that such entity does not have any "substantial United States owners" or (ii) provides certain information regarding the entity's "substantial United States owners," which we will in turn provide to the Secretary of the Treasury. We will not pay any additional amounts to any stockholders in respect of any amounts withheld. Foreign persons are encouraged to consult with their tax advisors regarding the possible implications of the legislation on their investment in shares of our stock.
U.S. Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Depositary Shares
     Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if you were owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the depositary shares. Thus, you will be required to take into account the income and deductions to which you would be entitled if you were a holder of the underlying series of preferred stock.
     No gain or loss will be recognized upon the withdrawal of preferred stock in exchange for depositary shares and the tax basis of each share of preferred stock will, upon exchange, be the same as the aggregate tax basis of the depositary shares exchanged. If you held your depositary shares as a capital asset at the time of the exchange for shares of preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred stock will include the period during which you owned the depositary shares.
Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred Stock.
 
U.S. Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt Securities
     The following is a general summary of the United States federal income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder that is a non-U.S. holder, as defined below, the United States federal estate tax consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt securities periodically offered under one or more indentures (the "notes"). This summary assumes that you hold the notes as capital assets. This summary applies to you only if you are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes for a price equal to the issue price of the notes. The issue price of the notes is the first price at which a substantial amount of the notes is sold other than to bond houses, brokers or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity of underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In addition, this summary does not consider any foreign, state, local or other tax laws that may be applicable to us or a purchaser of the notes.
U.S. Holders
     The following summary applies to you only if you are a U.S. holder, as defined below.
     A "U.S. holder" is a beneficial owner of a note or notes that is for United States federal income tax purposes:
Definition of a U.S. Holder.
     Stated interest on the notes generally will be taxed as ordinary interest income from domestic sources at the time it is paid or accrues in accordance with your method of accounting for tax purposes.
Payments of Interest.
     The adjusted tax basis in your note acquired at a premium will generally be your cost. You generally will recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or otherwise dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:
Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of Notes.
     Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or loss. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if at the time of the sale or other disposition you have held the notes for more than one year. Subject to limited exceptions, your capital losses cannot be used to offset your ordinary income.
     In general, "backup withholding" may apply to any payments made to you of principal and interest on your note, and to payment of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before maturity, if you are a non-corporate U.S. holder and: (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.
     The amount of any reportable payments, including interest, made to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be reported to you and to the Internal Revenue Service for each calendar year. You should consult your tax advisor regarding your qualification for an exemption from backup withholding and the procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable. The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be credited against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that correct information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service.
Non-U.S. Holders
     The following summary applies to you if you are a beneficial owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above (a "non-U.S. holder").
 
     Special rules may apply to certain non-U.S. holders such as "controlled foreign corporations," "passive foreign investment companies" and "foreign personal holding companies." Such entities are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the United States federal, state, local and other tax consequences that may be relevant to them.
     Subject to the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not apply to payments by us or our paying agent, in its capacity as such, of principal and interest on your notes under the "portfolio interest" exception of the Internal Revenue Code, provided that:
U.S. Federal Withholding Tax.
     Treasury regulations provide that:
     If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these Treasury regulations and the certification requirements applicable to you.
     If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest requirements described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30% United States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a properly executed (1) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming an exemption from or reduction in withholding under the benefit of an applicable treaty or (2) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI stating that interest paid on the note is not subject to withholding tax because it is effectively connected with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States. Alternative documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.
     If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business, you will be required to pay United States federal income tax on that interest on a net income basis (although you will be exempt from the 30% withholding tax provided the certification requirement described above is met) in the same manner as if you were a U.S. person, except as otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a foreign corporation, you may be required to pay a branch profits tax on the earnings and profits that are effectively connected to the conduct of your trade or business in the United States.
     Recent legislation generally will impose U.S. withholding tax at a 30% rate on payments of interest (including original issue discount) and proceeds of sale in respect of debt instruments to certain non-U.S. holders if certain additional disclosure requirements related to U.S. ownership of such non-U.S. holders or U.S. accounts maintained by such non-U.S. holders are not satisfied. However, the withholding tax will not be imposed on payments pursuant to debt or other obligations outstanding as of March 18, 2012. If payment of withholding taxes is required, non-U.S. holders that are otherwise eligible for an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. withholding taxes with respect to such distributions and proceeds of a sale of such notes will be entitled to seek a refund from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") to obtain the benefit of such exemption or reduction. We will not pay any additional amounts to
 
non-U.S. holders in respect of any amounts withheld. These new withholding rules are generally effective for payments made after December 31, 2012.
     You generally will not have to pay U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income realized from the sale, redemption, retirement at maturity or other disposition of your notes, unless:
Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of Notes.
     If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business, you generally will be subject to U.S. income tax on a net basis on the gain. In addition, if you are a foreign corporation, you may be subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively connected earnings and profits for the taxable year, as adjusted for certain items.
     If you are an individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the United States, as specially defined for U.S. federal estate tax purposes, at the time of your death, your notes will generally not be subject to the U.S. federal estate tax, unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or constructively 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all our classes of stock entitled to vote, or (2) interest on the notes is effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
U.S. Federal Estate Tax.
     Backup withholding will not apply to payments of principal or interest made by us or our paying agent, in its capacity as such, to you if you have provided the required certification that you are a non-U.S. holder as described in " U.S. Federal Withholding Tax" above, and provided that neither we nor our paying agent have actual knowledge that you are a U.S. holder, as described in " U.S. Holders" above. We or our paying agent may, however, report payments of interest on the notes.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.
     The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If you sell your notes outside the United States through a non-U.S. office of a non-U.S. broker and the sales proceeds are paid to you outside the United States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information reporting requirements generally will not apply to that payment. However, U.S. information reporting, but not backup withholding, will apply to a payment of sales proceeds, even if that payment is made outside the United States, if you sell your notes through a non-U.S. office of a broker that:
     You should consult your own tax advisor regarding application of backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from backup withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules from a payment to you will be allowed as a refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided the required information is furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
U.S. Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Warrants
     You will not generally recognize gain or loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your basis in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will be equal to the sum of your adjusted tax basis in the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding period in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will not include the period during which the warrant was held by you.
Exercise of Warrants.
 
     Upon the expiration of a warrant, you will recognize a capital loss in an amount equal to your adjusted tax basis in the warrant.
Expiration of Warrants.
     Upon the sale or exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will recognize gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in the warrant. Such gain or loss will be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the warrant was held for more than one year. Upon the sale of the warrant to us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that you should recognize ordinary income on the sale. You are advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the consequences of a sale of a warrant to us.
Sale or Exchange of Warrants.
Potential Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences
     Current and prospective securities holders should recognize that the present federal income tax treatment of an investment in us may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time and that any such action may affect investments and commitments previously made. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the Treasury Department, resulting in revisions of regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations of these laws could adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.
Internet Access to Our SEC Filings
     Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy statements and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission are made available, free of charge, on the Internet at www.hcreit.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Item 2.
Properties
     We own our corporate headquarters located at 4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615. We also own corporate offices in Tennessee, lease corporate offices in Florida and have ground leases relating to certain of our properties. The following table sets forth certain information regarding the properties that comprise our consolidated real property and real estate loan investments as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     The following table sets forth occupancy and average annualized income for these property types:
 
     The following table sets forth information regarding lease expirations for certain portions of our portfolio as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
Item 6.
Selected Financial Data
     The following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2010 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     The following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated financial statements of Health Care REIT, Inc. for the periods presented and should be read together with the notes thereto contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K. Other important factors are identified in "Item 1  Business" above and "Item 1A  Risk Factors" in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Executive Summary
Company Overview
     Health Care REIT, Inc. is a real estate investment trust ("REIT") that has been at the forefront of senior housing and health care real estate since the company was founded in 1970. We are an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio and our portfolio spans the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate, including senior housing communities, skilled nursing facilities, medical office buildings, inpatient and outpatient medical centers and life science facilities. Our capital programs, when combined with comprehensive planning, development and property management services, make us a single-source solution for acquiring, planning, developing, managing, repositioning and monetizing real estate assets. The following table summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2010:
 
Health Care Industry
     The demand for health care services, and consequently health care properties, is projected to reach unprecedented levels in the near future. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") projects that national health expenditures will rise to $3.5 trillion in 2015 or 18.2% of gross domestic product ("GDP"). The average annual growth in national health expenditures for 2009 through 2019 is expected to be 6.3%, which is 0.2% faster than pre-health care reform estimates.
     While demographics are the primary driver of demand, economic conditions and availability of services contribute to health care service utilization rates. We believe the health care property market may be less susceptible to fluctuations and economic downturns relative to other property sectors. Investor interest in the market remains strong, especially in specific sectors such as medical office buildings, regardless of the current stringent lending environment. As a REIT, we believe we are situated to benefit from any turbulence in the capital markets due to our access to capital.
     The total U.S. population is projected to increase by 20.4% through 2030. The elderly population aged 65 and over is projected to increase by 79.2% through 2030. The elderly are an important component of health care utilization, especially independent living services, assisted living services, skilled nursing services, inpatient and outpatient hospital services and physician ambulatory care. Most health care services are provided within a health care facility such as a hospital, a physician's office or a senior housing facility. Therefore, we believe there will be continued demand for companies, such as ours, with expertise in health care real estate.
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     The following chart illustrates the projected increase in the elderly population aged 65 and over:
     Source: U.S. Census Bureau
     Health care real estate investment opportunities tend to increase as demand for health care services increases. We recognize the need for health care real estate as it correlates to health care service demand. Health care providers require real estate to house their businesses and expand their services. We believe that investment opportunities in health care real estate will continue to be present due to:
Health Reform Laws
     On March 23, 2010, the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ("PPACA") and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, the "Health Reform Laws"). The Health Reform Laws contain various provisions that may directly impact us or the operators and tenants of our properties. Some provisions of the Health Reform Laws may have a positive impact on our operators' or tenants' revenues, by, for example, increasing coverage of uninsured individuals, while others may have a negative impact on the reimbursement of our operators or tenants by, for example, altering the market basket adjustments for certain types of health care facilities. The Health Reform Laws also enhance certain fraud and abuse penalty provisions that could apply to our operators and tenants, in the event of one or more violations of the federal health care regulatory laws. In addition, there are provisions that impact the health coverage that we and our operators and tenants provide to our respective employees. We cannot predict whether the existing Health Reform Laws, or future health care reform legislation or regulatory changes, will have a material impact on our operators' or tenants' property or business. If the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators and tenants are materially adversely impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected as well. Further, on February 2, 2011, the U.S. Senate refused to pass an overhaul repeal of the Health Reform Laws, and the focus has now shifted to attempts to repeal or amend individual sections of the Health Reform Laws. Further, federal courts are also considering, and in some cases have ruled on, the legality of the Health Reform Laws. We cannot predict whether any of these attempts to repeal or amend the Health Reform Laws will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a repeal or amendment would have on our operators and tenants.
     . The Health Reform Laws provide for various changes to the reimbursement that our operators and tenants may receive. One such change is a reduction to the market basket adjustments for inpatient acute hospitals, long-term care hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation facilities, home health agencies, psychiatric hospitals, hospice care and outpatient hospitals. Beginning in 2010, the otherwise applicable percentage increase to the market basket for inpatient acute hospitals will decrease. Beginning in 2012, inpatient acute hospitals will also face a downward adjustment of the annual percentage increase to the market basket rate by a "productivity adjustment." The productivity adjustment may cause the annual percentage increase to be less than zero, which would mean that inpatient acute hospitals could face payment rates for a fiscal year that are less than the payment rates for the preceding year.
Impact to Reimbursement of the Operators and Tenants of Our Properties
     A similar productivity adjustment also applies to skilled nursing facilities beginning in 2012, which means that the payment rates for skilled nursing facilities may decrease from one year to the next. Long-term care hospitals will face a specified percentage decrease in their annual update for discharges beginning in 2010. Additionally, beginning in 2012, long-term care hospitals will be subject to the productivity adjustments, which may decrease the federal payment rates for long-term care hospitals. Similar productivity adjustments and other adjustments to payment rates will apply to inpatient rehabilitation facilities, psychiatric hospitals and outpatient hospitals beginning in 2010.
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     The Health Reform Laws revise other reimbursement provisions that may affect our business. For example, the Health Reform Laws mandate a one-year extension of the exceptions for medical therapy caps, which will be applicable though December 31, 2010. The Health Reform Laws also reduce states' Medicaid disproportionate share hospital ("DSH") allotments, starting in 2014 through 2020. These allotments would have provided additional funding for DSH hospitals that are operators or tenants of our properties, and thus, any reduction might negatively impact these operators or tenants.
     Additionally, beginning in fiscal year 2015, Medicare payments will decrease to hospitals for treatment associated with hospital acquired conditions. This decreased payment rate may negatively impact our operators or tenants. The Health Reform Laws also call for reductions in payments for discharges beginning October 1, 2012, in order to account for excess readmissions. While the exact amount of the reduction is not yet known, a reduction in payments to our operators or tenants may affect their ability to make payments to us.
     PPACA additionally calls for the creation of the Independent Payment Advisory Board (the "Board"), which will be responsible for establishing payment polices, including recommendations in the event that Medicare costs exceed a certain threshold. Proposals for recommendations submitted by the Board prior to December 31, 2018 may not include recommendations that would reduce payments for hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and physicians, among other providers, prior to December 31, 2019. The Health Reform Laws also create other mechanisms that could permit significant changes to payment. For example, PPACA establishes the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation to test innovative payment and service delivery models to reduce program expenditures through the use of demonstration programs that can waive existing reimbursement methodologies. The Health Reform Laws also provide additional Medicaid funding to allow states to carry out mandated expansion of Medicaid coverage to certain financially-eligible individuals beginning in 2014, and also permits states to expand their Medicaid coverage to these individuals as early as April 1, 2010, if certain conditions are met.
     Additionally, although the Health Reform Laws delayed until at least October 1, 2011, the implementation of the Resource Utilization Group, Version Four ("RUG-IV"), which revises the payment classification system for skilled nursing facilities, the recently enacted Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010 repealed this delay retroactively to October 1, 2010. The Health Reform Laws also extend certain payment rules related to long-term acute care hospitals found in the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007.
     Finally, many other changes resulting from the Health Reform Laws, or implementing regulations, or guidance may negatively impact our operators and tenants. We will continue to monitor and evaluate the Health Reform Laws and implementing regulations and guidance to determine other potential effects of the reform.
     . The Health Reform Laws revise health care fraud and abuse provisions that will affect our operators and tenants. Specifically, PPACA allows for up to treble damages under the Federal False Claims Act for violations related to state-based health insurance exchanges authorized by the Health Reform Laws, which will be implemented beginning in 2014. The Health Reform Laws also impose new civil monetary penalties for false statements or actions that lead to delayed inspections, with penalties of up to $15,000 per day for failure to grant timely access and up to $50,000 for a knowing violation. The Health Reform laws also provide for additional funding to investigate and prosecute health care fraud and abuse. Accordingly, the increased penalties under PPACA for fraud and abuse violations may have a negative impact on our operators and tenants in the event that the government brings an enforcement action or subjects them to penalties.
Impact of Fraud and Abuse Provisions
     Further, as recently as February 2, 2011, CMS published final rulemaking to implement the enhanced provider and supplier screening provisions called for in the Health Reform Laws. Under the final rule, beginning March 25, 2011, all enrolling and participating providers and suppliers will be assessed an annual administrative fee and be placed in one of three risk levels (limited, moderate, and high) based on an assessment of the individual's or entity's overall risk of fraud, waste and abuse. This rule also allows for the temporary suspension of Medicare payments to providers or suppliers in the event CMS receives credible information that an overpayment, fraud, or willful misrepresentation has occurred. The Health Reform Laws granted the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services significant discretionary authority to suspend, exclude, or impose fines on providers and suppliers based on the agency's determination that such a provider or supplier is "high-risk," and, as a result, this final rulemaking has the potential to materially adversely affect our operators and tenants who may be evaluated under the enhanced screening process.
     Additionally, provisions of Title VI of PPACA are designed to increase transparency and program integrity by skilled nursing facilities, other nursing facilities and similar providers. Specifically, skilled nursing facilities and other providers and suppliers will be required to institute compliance and ethics programs. Additionally, PPACA makes it easier for consumers to file complaints against nursing homes by mandating that states establish complaint websites. The provisions calling for enhanced transparency will increase the administrative burden and costs on these providers.
     . The Health Reform Laws will affect employers that provide health
Impact to the Health Care Plans Offered to Our Employees
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
plans to their employees. The new laws will change the tax treatment of the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy and extend dependent coverage for dependents up to age 26, among other changes. We are evaluating our health care plans in light of these changes. These changes may affect our operators and tenants as well.
Medicare Program Reimbursement Changes
     In recent months, CMS released a number of rulemakings that may potentially increase or decrease the government reimbursement of our operators and tenants. To the extent that any of these rulemakings decrease government reimbursement to our operators and tenants, our revenue and operations may be indirectly, adversely affected.
     On August 16, 2010, CMS issued a final rule updating the long-term acute care hospital prospective payment system for fiscal year 2011. Among other things, the final rule updates payment rates for acute care and long-term care hospitals and implements certain provisions of the Health Reform Laws. In the rule, CMS finalized an update of 2.5% for inflation with a cut of 0.5% as required by the Health Reform Laws and a negative 2.5% documentation and coding adjustment for long-term care hospitals. CMS also released a notice and comment rulemaking for the prospective payment system and consolidated billing for skilled nursing facilities for fiscal year 2011 on July 22, 2010. CMS adjusts the nursing home payment rates for fiscal year 2011 by including a market basket increase factor of 2.3% and a negative 0.6 percentage point forecast error adjustment, which would result in a net increase update of 1.7% for nursing home rates.
     CMS annually adjusts the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule payment rates based on an update formula that includes application of the Sustainable Growth Rate ("SGR"). On November 29, 2010, CMS published the calendar year 2011 Physician Fee Schedule final rule. Among other things, CMS preliminary estimates in the final rule that the calendar year 2011 SGR formula will be negative 13.4%. This measure is a significant change from the figure provided in the proposed rule, and will replace the 21.3% reduction in physician Medicare reimbursement in 2010 required by the SGR formula. Additionally, in the final rule, CMS has eliminated certain CPT consultation codes, which could negatively impact the reimbursement levels received by our operators and tenants.
     Finally, on November 24, 2010, CMS published the calendar year 2011 Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System ("OPPS") final rule. CMS estimates that the cumulative effect of all changes to payment rates for calendar year 2011 will have a positive effect, resulting in a 2.5% estimated increase in Medicare payments to providers paid under the HOPPS.
Economic Outlook
     The serious economic recession affecting the national and global economy has continued to impact all sectors, including, to a somewhat lesser degree, health care. Continuing mixed economic signals have made it difficult to predict when there might be a return to more normal and stable growth rates, employment levels and overall economic performance.
     Banks have remained cautious in their lending, but significant liquidity has been injected into the senior housing and care markets by various Government-Sponsored Enterprises. In addition, there is significant equity investment capital available for certain health care sectors, particularly medical office buildings. This has had the effect of keeping capitalization rates in these segments generally in line with or even below historic rates. Debt costs for REITs have generally declined over the past 12 months, and equity markets for health care REITs have remained open for the most part.
     As a consequence, while liquidity remained an important consideration in 2010, we have been more aggressive in pursuing attractive investment opportunities that meet our strategic and underwriting criteria. We have also been more active in accessing capital markets during this time. We believe the markets in which we invest will continue to offer stable returns during the economic downturn and significant growth potential as and when the economy begins to rebound.
Business Strategy
     Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, customer and geographic location.
     Substantially all of our revenues and sources of cash flows from operations are derived from operating lease rentals and interest earned on outstanding loans receivable. These items represent our primary source of liquidity to fund distributions and are dependent upon our obligors' continued ability to make contractual rent and interest payments to us. To the extent that our obligors experience operating difficulties and are unable to generate sufficient cash to make payments to us, there could be a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property and operator/tenant. Our asset management process includes review of monthly financial statements for each property, periodic review of obligor credit, periodic property inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. In monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
proprietary database to collect and analyze property-specific data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research to ascertain industry trends and risks. Through these asset management and research efforts, we are typically able to intervene at an early stage to address payment risk, and in so doing, support both the collectability of revenue and the value of our investment.
     In addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also structure our investments to help mitigate payment risk. Operating leases and loans are normally credit enhanced by guaranties and/or letters of credit. In addition, operating leases are typically structured as master leases and loans are generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.
     For the year ended December 31, 2010, rental income and interest income represented 86% and 6% respectively, of total gross revenues (including revenues from discontinued operations). Substantially all of our operating leases are designed with either fixed or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. Our yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, the average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments.
     Depending upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is sufficient to fund operations, meet debt service obligations (both principal and interest), make dividend distributions and complete construction projects in process. We also anticipate evaluating opportunities to finance future investments. New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, internally generated cash and the proceeds from sales of real property. Our investments generate cash from rent and interest receipts and principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent capital for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under the unsecured line of credit arrangement, has historically been provided through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.
     Our primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, resident fees and services, borrowings under the unsecured line of credit arrangement, public and private offerings of debt and equity securities, proceeds from the sales of real property and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including construction advances), loan advances, property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses. Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate returns to our stockholders. We expect to complete gross new investments of approximately $1.5 billion in 2011, comprised of acquisitions/joint ventures totaling $1.3 billion and funded new development of $212 million. We anticipate the sale of real property and the repayment of loans receivable totaling $300 million during 2011. It is possible that additional loan repayments or sales of real property may occur in the future. To the extent that loan repayments and real property sales exceed new investments, our revenues and cash flows from operations could be adversely affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any loan repayments and real property sales in new investments. To the extent that new investment requirements exceed our available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our unsecured line of credit arrangement. At December 31, 2010, we had $131,570,000 of cash and cash equivalents, $79,069,000 of restricted cash and $850,000,000 of available borrowing capacity under our unsecured line of credit arrangement.
Key Transactions in 2010
     We completed the following key transactions during the year ended December 31, 2010:
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties
     We utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of our business. These indicators are discussed below and relate to operating performance, concentration risk and credit strength. Management uses these key performance indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results, in making operating decisions and for budget planning purposes.
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     . We believe that net income attributable to common stockholders ("NICS") is the most appropriate earnings measure. Other useful supplemental measures of our operating performance include funds from operations ("FFO") and net operating income ("NOI"); however, these supplemental measures are not defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"). Please refer to the section entitled "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for further discussion and reconciliations of FFO and NOI. These earnings measures and their relative per share amounts are widely used by investors and analysts in the valuation, comparison and investment recommendations of companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends of our operating performance measures for the periods presented (in thousands, except per share data):
Operating Performance
 
     We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. Our leverage ratios include debt to book capitalization and debt to market capitalization. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to service interest and fixed charges (interest, secured debt principal amortization and preferred dividends). We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain compliance with our debt covenants. The coverage ratios are based on adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("Adjusted EBITDA") which is discussed in further detail, and reconciled to net income, below in "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors, analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment recommendations and rating of companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends for our credit strength measures for the periods presented:
Credit Strength.
     . We evaluate our concentration risk in terms of asset mix, investment mix, customer mix and geographic mix. Concentration risk is a valuable measure in understanding what portion of our investments could be at risk if certain sectors were to experience downturns. Asset mix measures the portion of our investments that are real property. In order to qualify as an equity REIT, at least 75% of our real estate investments must be real property whereby each property, which includes the land, buildings, improvements, intangibles and related rights, is owned by us and leased to a tenant pursuant to a long-term operating lease. Investment mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our various property types. Customer mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our top five customers. Geographic mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our top five states. The following table reflects our recent historical trends of concentration risk for the periods presented:
Concentration Risk
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
     We evaluate our key performance indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical trends are indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be achieved and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results are described in more detail in "Risk Factors" and other sections of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Management regularly monitors economic and other factors to develop strategic and tactical plans designed to improve performance and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and to appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-specific trends. Please refer to "Business" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" herein and "Risk Factors" in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 for further discussion of these risk factors.
Portfolio Update
     . The primary performance measure for our properties is net operating income ("NOI") as discussed below in "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." The following table summarizes our net operating income for the periods indicated (in thousands):
Net operating income
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
     . Payment coverage of our operators continues to remain strong. Our overall payment coverage is at 2.12 times. The table below reflects our recent historical trends of portfolio coverage. Coverage data reflects the 12 months ended for the periods presented. CBMF represents the ratio of our customers' earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees to contractual rent or interest due us. CAMF represents the ratio of our customers' earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent (but after imputed management fees) to contractual rent or interest due us.
Payment coverage
Corporate Governance
     Maintaining investor confidence and trust has become increasingly important in today's business environment. Our Board of Directors and management are strongly committed to policies and procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our corporate governance guidelines provide the framework for our business operations and emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder value while meeting all applicable legal requirements. The Board of Directors adopted and annually reviews its Corporate Governance Guidelines. These guidelines meet the listing standards adopted by the New York Stock Exchange and are available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Sources and Uses of Cash
     Our primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, resident fees and services, borrowings under the unsecured line of credit arrangement, public and private offerings of debt and equity securities, proceeds from the sales of real property and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including construction advances), loan advances, property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses. These sources and uses of cash are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are discussed in further detail below.
     The following is a summary of our sources and uses of cash flows (dollars in thousands):
     . The change in net cash provided from operating activities is primarily attributable to an increase in net income, excluding gains/losses on sales of properties, depreciation and amortization, transaction costs and debt extinguishment charges. These items are discussed below in "Results of Operations." The following is a summary of our straight-line rent and
Operating Activities
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
above/below market lease amortization (dollars in thousands):
     Gross straight-line rental income represents the non-cash difference between contractual cash rent due and the average rent recognized pursuant to U.S. GAAP for leases with fixed rental escalators, net of collectability reserves. This amount is positive in the first half of a lease term (but declining every year due to annual increases in cash rent due) and is negative in the second half of a lease term. The fluctuation in cash receipts due to real property sales is attributable to less significant straight-line rent receivable balances on properties sold during the current year. The fluctuation in prepaid rent receipts is primarily due to changes in prepaid rent received at certain construction projects.
     . The changes in net cash used in investing activities are primarily attributable to net changes in real property and real estate loans receivable. The following is a summary of our investment and disposition activities (dollars in thousands):
Investing Activities
Capitalization Rates
Capitalization rates for acquisitions represent annualized contractual income to be received in cash at date of investment divided by investment amounts. Capitalization rates for dispositions represent annualized contractual income that was being received in cash at
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
date of disposition divided by cash proceeds. Capitalization rates for acquisitions and dispositions by our three segments are as follows:
     The contributions to unconsolidated joint ventures primarily represent $174,692,000 and $21,321,000 of cash invested by us in the joint ventures with Forest City Enterprises and a national medical office building company, respectively. Please see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
     . The changes in net cash provided from or used in financing activities are primarily attributable to changes related to our long-term debt arrangements, proceeds from the issuance of common stock and dividend payments.
Financing Activities
     The changes in our senior unsecured notes are due to (i) the issuance of $494,403,000 of convertible senior unsecured notes in March and June 2010; (ii) the repurchase of $441,326,000 of convertible senior unsecured notes in March and June 2010; (iii) the issuance of $450,000,000 of senior unsecured notes in April and June 2010; (iv) the issuance of $450,000,000 of senior unsecured notes in September 2010; (v) the issuance of $450,000,000 of senior unsecured notes in November 2010; (vi) the extinguishment of $183,147,000 of various senior unsecured notes in March and September 2009; and (vii) the extinguishment of $42,330,000 of 7.625% senior unsecured notes in March 2008. We recognized losses of $25,072,000 and $19,269,000 during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in connection with the aforementioned extinguishments.
     During the year ended December 31, 2010, we extinguished 35 secured debt loans totaling $194,493,000 with a weighted-average interest rate of 6.07% and recognized extinguishment losses of $9,099,000. Also during the year ended December 31, 2010, we issued $81,977,000 of secured debt loans at an average interest rate of 5.10%. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we extinguished 20 secured debt loans totaling $81,715,000 with a weighted-average interest rate of 7.21% and recognized extinguishment losses of $5,838,000. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we extinguished eight secured debt loans totaling $50,475,000 with a weighted-average interest rate of 6.67% and recognized extinguishment gains of $2,094,000.
     We may repurchase, redeem or refinance convertible and non-convertible senior unsecured notes from time to time, taking advantage of favorable market conditions when available. We may purchase senior notes for cash through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, a tender offer or, in some cases, through the early redemption of such securities pursuant to their terms. The non-convertible senior unsecured notes are redeemable at our option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (1) the principal amount of the notes (or portion of such notes) being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon up to the redemption date and (2) any "make-whole" amount due under the terms of the notes in connection with early redemptions. We cannot redeem the 3.00% convertible senior unsecured notes due 2029 prior to December 1,
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
2014 unless such redemption is necessary to preserve our status as a REIT. However, on or after December 1, 2014, we may from time to time at our option redeem those notes, in whole or in part, for cash, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes we redeem, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. Redemptions and repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors.
     The following is a summary of our common stock issuances for the years indicated (dollars in thousands, except average price):
     In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (including 100% of capital gains) to our stockholders. The increase in dividends is primarily attributable to an increase in our common shares outstanding. The following is a summary of our dividend payments (in thousands, except per share amounts):
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
     During the year ended December 31, 2010, we entered into a joint venture investment with Forest City Enterprises (NYSE:FCE.A and FCE.B). The portfolio is 100% leased and includes affiliates of investment grade pharmaceutical and research tenants such as Novartis, Genzyme, Millennium (a subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceuticals), and Brigham and Women's Hospital. Forest City Enterprises self-developed the portfolio and will continue to manage it on behalf of the joint venture. The life science campus is part of a mixed-use project that includes a 210-room hotel, 674 residential units, a grocery store, restaurants and retail. In connection with this transaction, we invested $174,692,000 of cash which is recorded as an equity investment on the balance sheet. Our share of the non-recourse secured debt assumed by the joint venture was approximately $156,729,000 with weighted-average interest rates of 7.1%. Also, during the year ended December 31, 2010, we entered into a joint venture investment with a national medical office building company. In connection with this transaction, we invested $21,321,000 of cash which is recorded as an equity investment on the balance sheet. Our share of the non-recourse secured debt assumed by the joint venture was approximately $24,609,000 with weighted-average interest rates of 6.06%. Please see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates, our perception of the future volatility of interest rates and our relative levels of variable rate debt and variable rate investments. Please see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
     At December 31, 2010, we had five outstanding letter of credit obligations totaling $5,482,932 and expiring between 2011 and 2013. Please see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Contractual Obligations
     The following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010 (in thousands):
 
     At December 31, 2010, we had an unsecured line of credit arrangement with a consortium of sixteen banks in the amount of $1.15 billion, which is scheduled to expire on August 6, 2012. Borrowings under the agreement are subject to interest payable in periods no longer than three months at either the agent bank's prime rate of interest or the applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (0.87% at December 31, 2010). The applicable margin is based on certain of our debt ratings and was 0.6% at December 31, 2010. In addition, we pay a facility fee annually to each bank based on the bank's commitment amount. The facility fee depends on certain of our debt ratings and was 0.15% at December 31, 2010. We also pay an annual agent's fee of $50,000. Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement. At December 31, 2010, we had $300,000,000 outstanding under the unsecured line of credit arrangement and estimated contractual interest obligations of $4,133,000. Contractual interest obligations are estimated based on the assumption that the balance of $300,000,000 at December 31, 2010 is constant until maturity at interest rates in effect at December 31, 2010.
     We have $3,064,930,000 of senior unsecured notes principal outstanding with fixed annual interest rates ranging from 3.00% to 8.00%, payable semi-annually. Total contractual interest obligations on senior unsecured notes totaled $1,391,673,000 at December 31, 2010. A total of $788,077,000 of our senior unsecured notes are convertible notes that also contain put features. Please see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
     Additionally, we have consolidated secured debt with total outstanding principal of $1,133,715,000, collateralized by owned properties, with annual interest rates ranging from 3.01% to 8.74%, payable monthly. The carrying values of the properties securing the debt totaled $2,054,820,000 at December 31, 2010. Total contractual interest obligations on secured debt totaled $436,955,000 at December 31, 2010. Additionally, our share of non-recourse debt associated with unconsolidated joint ventures (as reflected in the contractual obligations table above) is $178,764,000 at December 31, 2010. Our share of contractual interest obligations on our unconsolidated joint venture secured debt is $43,921,000 at December 31, 2010.
     At December 31, 2010, we had operating lease obligations of $230,189,000 relating primarily to ground leases at certain of our properties and office space leases.
     Purchase obligations are comprised of unfunded construction commitments and contingent purchase obligations. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding construction financings of $356,793,000 for leased properties and were committed to providing additional financing of approximately $268,055,000 to complete construction. At December 31, 2010, we had contingent purchase obligations totaling $33,613,000. These contingent purchase obligations relate to unfunded capital improvement obligations. Upon funding, amounts due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.
     Other long-term liabilities relate to our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP") and certain non-compete agreements. We have a SERP, a non-qualified defined benefit pension plan, which provides certain executive officers with supplemental deferred retirement benefits. The SERP provides an opportunity for participants to receive retirement benefits that cannot be paid under our tax-qualified plans because of the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Benefits are
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
based on compensation and length of service and the SERP is unfunded. We expect to contribute $1,500,000 to the SERP during the 2011 fiscal year. Benefit payments are expected to total $2,367,000 during the next five fiscal years and $2,410,000 thereafter. We use a December 31 measurement date for the SERP. The accrued liability on our balance sheet for the SERP was $4,066,000 and $3,287,000 at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.
     In connection with the Windrose merger, we entered into a consulting agreement with Frederick L. Farrar, which expired in December 2008. We entered into a new consulting agreement with Mr. Farrar in December 2008, which expired in December 2009. Mr. Farrar agreed not to compete with us for a period of two years following the expiration of the agreement. In exchange for complying with the covenant not to compete, Mr. Farrar receives eight quarterly payments of $37,500, with the first payment to be made on the date of expiration of the agreement. The first payment to Mr. Farrar was made in January 2010 and the final payment will be made in September 2011.
Capital Structure
     As of December 31, 2010, we had total equity of $4,733,100,000 and a total outstanding debt balance of $4,460,855,000, which represents a debt to total book capitalization ratio of 49%. Our ratio of debt to market capitalization was 38% at December 31, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our adjusted interest coverage ratio was 3.39x and our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio was 2.76x. Also, at December 31, 2010, we had $131,570,000 of cash and cash equivalents, $79,069,000 of restricted cash and $850,000,000 of available borrowing capacity under our unsecured line of credit arrangement.
     Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements. Please refer to the section entitled "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for further discussion. None of our debt agreements contain provisions for acceleration which could be triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes are used to determine the fees and interest charged.
     We plan to manage the company to maintain compliance with our debt covenants and with a capital structure consistent with our current profile. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.
     On May 7, 2009, we filed an open-ended automatic or "universal" shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering an indeterminate amount of future offerings of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and units. As of January 31, 2011, we had an effective registration statement on file in connection with our enhanced dividend reinvestment plan under which we may issue up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock. As of January 31, 2011, 8,397,408 shares of common stock remained available for issuance under this registration statement. We have entered into separate Equity Distribution Agreements with each of UBS Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. relating to the offer and sale from time to time of up to $250,000,000 aggregate amount of our common stock ("Equity Shelf Program"). As of January 31, 2011, we had $119,985,000 of remaining capacity under the Equity Shelf Program. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate issuing securities under our registration statements to invest in additional properties and to repay borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangement.
Results of Operations
     Our primary sources of revenue include rent and interest. Our primary expenses include interest expense, depreciation and amortization, property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses. These revenues and expenses are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Income and are discussed in further detail below. The following is a summary of our results of operations (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation
     The components of the changes in revenues, expenses and other items are discussed in detail below. The following is a summary of certain items that impact the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010:
     The components of the changes in revenues, expenses and other items are discussed in detail below. The following is a summary of certain items that impact the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009:
     The following is a summary of certain items that impact the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008:
     The increase in fully diluted average common shares outstanding is primarily the result of public common stock offerings and common stock issuances pursuant to our DRIP and equity shelf program ("ESP"). The following table represents the changes in outstanding common stock for the period from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010 (in thousands):
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three business segments  senior housing triple-net, senior housing operating and medical facilities. Please see Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Senior Housing Properties
     The following is a summary of our results of operations for the senior housing properties (dollars in thousands):
     The increase in rental income is primarily attributable to the acquisitions of new properties and the conversion of newly
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
constructed senior housing triple-net properties from which we receive rent. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant's properties. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If gross operating revenues at our facilities and/or the Consumer Price Index do not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to increase. Sales of real property would offset revenue increases and, to the extent that they exceed new acquisitions, could result in decreased revenues. Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income. For the three months ended December 31, 2010, we had no lease renewals but we had 18 leases with rental rate increasers ranging from 0.14% to 0.60% in our senior housing triple-net portfolio.
     As discussed in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, we completed two senior housing operating partnerships in 2010. The results of operations for these partnerships have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the dates of acquisition. The senior housing operating partnerships were formed using the structure authorized by the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 ("RIDEA"). When considering new partnerships utilizing the RIDEA structure, we look for opportunities with best-in-class operators with a strong seasoned leadership team, high-quality real estate in attractive markets, growth potential above the rent escalators in our triple-net lease senior housing portfolio, and alignment of economic interests with our operating partner. Our senior housing operating partnerships offer us the opportunity for external growth because we have the right to fund future senior housing investment opportunities sourced by our operating partners.
     As discussed in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements, during the three months ended March 31, 2011, we changed the name of our senior housing and care segment to senior housing triple-net. Additionally, we added a new senior housing operating segment. The following amounts previously reported in senior housing and care and included in the results of operations above for the year ended December 31, 2010 have been reclassified to senior housing operating in the current year (in thousands):
     Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 represents $22,905,000, $12,622,000 and $7,176,000, respectively, of secured debt interest expense offset by interest allocated to discontinued operations. The change in secured debt interest expense is due to the net effect and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our senior housing triple-net and operating property secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):
     Depreciation and amortization increased primarily as a result of new property acquisitions and the conversions of newly constructed investment properties. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change accordingly.
     Transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily represent costs incurred with the senior housing operating partnerships (including due diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services, and termination of pre-existing relationships computed based on the fair value of the assets acquired), lease termination fees and costs incurred in connection with other new property acquisitions.
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     During the six months ended June 30, 2011, we sold 34 senior housing triple-net facilities. At June 30, 2011, we had three senior housing triple-net facilities that satisfied the requirements for held for sale treatment and such properties were properly recorded at the lesser of their estimated fair values less costs to sell or carrying values. During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we recorded an impairment charge of $202,000 related to two of the held for sale senior housing triple-net facilities to adjust the carrying values to estimated fair values less costs to sell based on current sales price expectations. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we sold 31 senior housing triple-net properties for net gains of $36,274,000 as compared to 21 properties for net gains of $32,084,000 in 2009 and 36 properties for net gains of $151,457,000 in 2008. Additionally, at December 31, 2010, we had 16 senior housing triple-net facilities that satisfied the requirements for held for sale treatment. We did not recognize an impairment loss on these facilities as the fair value less estimated costs to sell exceeded our carrying value. The following illustrates the reclassification impact as a result of classifying the properties sold prior to or held for sale at June 30, 2011 as discontinued operations for the periods presented. Please refer to Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion.
     We recorded $23,261,000 of provision for loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2009. This amount includes the write-off of loans totaling $25,578,000 primarily relating to certain early stage senior housing operators offset by a net reduction in the allowance for loan losses of $2,457,000. We recorded $29,684,000 of provision for loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2010. This amount includes the write-off of loans totaling $33,591,000 primarily related to certain early stage senior housing and CCRC development projects. This was offset by a net reduction of the allowance balance by $3,907,000, resulting in an allowance for loan losses of $1,276,000 relating to real estate loans with outstanding balances of $9,691,000, all of which were on non-accrual status at December 31, 2010. The provision for loan losses is related to our critical accounting estimate for the allowance for loan losses and is discussed in "Critical Accounting Policies."
     
Medical Facilities
     The following is a summary of our results of operations for the medical facilities segment (dollars in thousands):
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     The increase in rental income is primarily attributable to the acquisitions of new properties and the construction conversions of medical facilities from which we receive rent. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If the Consumer Price Index does not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to increase. Sales of real property would offset revenue increases and, to the extent that they exceed new acquisitions, could result in decreased revenues. Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income. For the three months ended December 31, 2010, our consolidated medical office building portfolio signed 62,391 square feet of new leases and 127,069 square feet of renewals. The weighted average term of these leases was five years, with a rate of $20.24 per square foot and tenant improvement and lease commission costs of $12.85 per square foot. Substantially all of these leases during the referenced quarter contain an annual fixed or contingent escalation rent structure ranging from the change in CPI to 3%. For the three months ended December 31, 2010, we had no lease renewals but we had two leases with rental rate increasers ranging from 0.25% to 0.50% in our hospital portfolio.
     Interest income decreased from the prior period primarily due to a decline in outstanding balances for medical facility real estate loans. Other income is attributable to third party management fee income.
     Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 represents $24,926,000, $20,584,000 and $21,828,000, respectively, of secured debt interest expense offset by interest allocated to discontinued operations. The change in secured debt interest expense is primarily due to the net effect and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our medical facilities secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):
     The increase in property operating expenses and depreciation and amortization is primarily attributable to acquisitions and construction conversions of new medical facilities for which we incur certain property operating expenses offset by property operating expenses associated with discontinued operations.
     Transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2010 represent costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of new properties. Income tax expense is primarily related to third party management fee income.
     Income from unconsolidated joint ventures represents our share of net income related to our joint venture investment with Forest City Enterprises. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. The following is a summary of our net income from this investment for the year ended December 31, 2010 (in thousands):
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     During the year ended December 31, 2008, we sold two medical facilities for net gains of $12,476,000. At December 31, 2008, we had 15 medical facilities that were held for sale and we recorded an impairment charge of $32,648,000 to reduce the carrying values of certain properties to their estimated fair values less costs to sell. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold 15 medical facilities for net gains of $11,310,000. At December 31, 2009, we had eight medical facilities held for sale and recorded an impairment charge of $25,223,000 to reduce the properties to their estimated fair values less costs to sell. In determining the fair value of the held for sale properties, we used a combination of third party appraisals based on market comparable transactions, other market listings and asset quality as well as management calculations based on projected operating income and published capitalization rates. During the three months ended September 30, 2010, we recorded an impairment charge of $947,000 related to two of the held for sale medical facilities to adjust the carrying values to estimated fair values less costs to sell based on current sales price expectations. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we sold seven of the held for sale medical facilities for net losses of $159,000. At December 31, 2010, we had one medical facility held for sale. During the six months ended June 30, 2011, we sold four medical facilities. Additionally, at June 30, 2011, we had one medical facility that satisfied the requirements for held for sale treatment. The following illustrates the reclassification impact as a result of classifying medical facilities sold prior to or held for sale at June 30, 2011 as discontinued operations for the periods presented. Please refer to Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion.
     Net income attributable to non-controlling interests primarily relates to certain properties that are consolidated in our operating results but where we have less than a 100% ownership interest.
Non-Segment/Corporate
     The following is a summary of our results of operations for the non-segment/corporate activities (dollars in thousands):
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     Other income primarily represents income from non-real estate activities such as interest earned on temporary investments of cash reserves.
     The following is a summary of our non-segment/corporate interest expense (dollars in thousands):
     The change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to the net effect of issuances and extinguishments. The following is a summary of our senior unsecured note principal activity (dollars in thousands):
 
     During the three months ended September 30, 2009, we completed a $10,750,000 first mortgage loan secured by a commercial real estate campus. The 10-year debt has a fixed interest rate of 6.37%.
     The change in interest expense on the unsecured line of credit arrangement is due primarily to the net effect and timing of draws, paydowns and variable interest rate changes. The following is a summary of our unsecured line of credit arrangement (dollars in thousands):
     We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used to finance the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balances outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized.
     Please see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our interest rate swap agreements and their impact on interest expense. Loan expense represents the amortization of deferred loan costs incurred in connection with the issuance and amendments of debt. Loan expense is consistent for all years presented.
     During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recognized a realized loss on derivatives of $23,393,000 related to forward-starting interest rate swaps that were in place to hedge future debt issuances when the timing of those issuances was revised.
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     General and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues (including revenues from discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 7.78%, 8.33% and 8.24%, respectively. The change from prior year is primarily related to (i) the recognition of $2,853,000 of expenses in connection with a performance-based stock grant, (ii) the recognition of $1,000,000 for the immediate vesting of a stock grant in conjunction with the CEO's new employment agreement, and (iii) additional salary and benefits to attract and retain appropriate personnel to support our business growth. This was partially offset by $3,909,000 of non-recurring expenses recognized during the year ended December 31, 2009 in connection with the departure of Raymond W. Braun who formerly served as President of the company.
     The change in preferred dividends is primarily attributable to preferred stock conversions into common stock. The following is a summary of our preferred stock activity (dollars in thousands):
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     We believe that net income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, we consider FFO to be a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.
     Net operating income ("NOI") is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property level operating expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, impairments and interest expense. We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
     EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We believe that EBITDA, along with net income and cash flow provided from operating activities, is an important supplemental measure because it provides additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. A covenant in our line of credit arrangement contains a financial ratio based on a definition of EBITDA that is specific to that agreement. Failure to satisfy this covenant could result in an event of default that could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. Due to the materiality of this debt agreement and the financial covenant, we have disclosed Adjusted EBITDA, which represents EBITDA as defined above and adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses and gain/loss on extinguishment of debt. We primarily utilize Adjusted EBITDA to measure our adjusted interest coverage ratio, which represents Adjusted EBITDA divided by total interest, and our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest, secured debt principal amortization and preferred dividends. Our covenant requires an adjusted fixed charge ratio of at least 1.75 times.
     Other than Adjusted EBITDA, our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. Adjusted EBITDA is used solely to determine our compliance with a financial covenant of our line of credit arrangement and is not being presented for use by investors for any other purpose. None of our supplemental measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies.
     The tables below reflect the reconciliation of FFO to net income attributable to common stockholders, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. The provisions for depreciation and amortization include provisions for depreciation and amortization from discontinued operations. Noncontrolling interest amounts represent the noncontrolling interests' share of transaction costs and depreciation and amortization. Unconsolidated joint venture amounts represent our share of unconsolidated joint ventures' depreciation and amortization. Amounts are in thousands except for per share data.
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     The table below reflects the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Interest expense and the provisions for depreciation and amortization include discontinued operations. Dollars are in thousands.
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     The following tables reflect the reconciliation of NOI for the periods presented. All amounts include amounts from discontinued operations, if applicable. Our share of revenues and expenses from unconsolidated joint ventures for life science buildings are included in medical facilities. Amounts are in thousands.
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Critical Accounting Policies
     Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions. Management considers accounting estimates or assumptions critical if:
     Management has discussed the development and selection of its critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented below relating to them. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are appropriate and are not reasonably likely to change in the future. However, since these estimates require assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, they bear the risk of change. If actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. Please refer to Note 1 of our audited consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact us. There were no material changes to these policies in 2010.
     The following table presents information about our critical accounting policies, as well as the material assumptions used to develop each estimate:
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Impact of Inflation
     During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation rate. Additionally, our earnings are primarily long-term investments with fixed rates of return. These investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured notes and borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangement. During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest rates, our ability to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs. Presuming the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not increase significantly, we believe that inflation will not impact the availability of equity and debt financing for us.
 
Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Health Care REIT, Inc.
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Health Care REIT, Inc. as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in Item 9.01 of this Form 8-K. These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedules based on our audits.
     We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Health Care REIT, Inc. at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
     We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Health Care REIT, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 25, 2011 (not included herein) expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Toledo, Ohio February 25, 2011, except for Notes 5 and 17, as to which the date is August 9, 2011.
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
1. Business
     Health Care REIT, Inc., an S&P 500 company with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is an equity real estate investment trust ("REIT") that invests in senior housing and health care real estate. Our full service platform also offers property management and development services to our customers. As of December 31, 2010, our diversified portfolio consisted of 683 properties in 41 states. Founded in 1970, we were the first real estate investment trust to invest exclusively in health care facilities. More information is available on our website at www.hcreit.com.
2. Accounting Policies and Related Matters
Principles of Consolidation
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint ventures that we control, through voting rights or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
     At inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting rights ("variable interest entities" or "VIEs") and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A variable interest entity is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity's activities without additional subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. ASC 810, , requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated on a continuous basis. This evaluation is based on an enterprise's ability to direct and influence the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact that entity's economic performance.
Consolidations
     For investments in joint ventures, we evaluate the type of rights held by the limited partner(s), which may preclude consolidation in circumstances in which the sole general partner would otherwise consolidate the limited partnership. The assessment of limited partners' rights and their impact on the presumption of control over a limited partnership by the sole general partner should be made when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, (ii) the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership in the limited partnership, or (iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited liability companies.
Use of Estimates
     The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Revenue Recognition
     Revenue is recorded in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires that revenue be recognized after four basic criteria are met. These four criteria include persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and determinable income and reasonably assured collectability. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectability risk. Substantially all of our operating leases contain either fixed or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. We recognize resident fees and services, other than move in fees, monthly as services are provided. Move in fees, which are a component of resident fees and services, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease agreement. Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days' notice.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
     Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Restricted Cash
     Restricted cash primarily consists of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments for real estate taxes, insurance, tenant and capital improvements and amounts held in escrow relating to acquisitions we are entitled to receive over a period of time as outlined in the escrow agreement.
Deferred Loan Expenses
     Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection with the issuance, assumption and amendments of debt arrangements. We amortize these costs over the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective
 
interest method.
Equity Investments
     Equity investments at December 31, 2010 and 2009 include an investment in a public company that has a readily determinable fair market value. We classify this equity investment as available-for-sale and, accordingly, record this investment at its fair market value with unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of stockholders' equity. Equity investments at December 31, 2010 and 2009 also include an investment in a private company. We do not have the ability to exercise influence over the company, so the investment is accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method of accounting, investments in private companies are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, return of capital and additional investments. These equity investments represented a minimal ownership interest in these companies. Additionally, equity investments include investments in unconsolidated joint ventures.
Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures
     Investments in less than majority owned entities where our interests represent a general partnership interest but substantive participating rights or substantive kick-out rights have been granted to the limited partners, or where our interests do not represent the general partnership interest and we do not control the major operating and financial policies of the entity, are reported under the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method of accounting, our share of the investee's earnings or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. To the extent that the Company's cost basis is different from the basis reflected at the joint venture level, the basis difference is generally amortized over the lives of the related assets and liabilities, and such amortization is included in the Company's share of equity in earnings of the joint venture. The initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures is based on the amount paid to purchase the joint venture interest or the estimated fair value of the assets prior to the sale of interests in the joint venture. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests
     Certain noncontrolling interests are redeemable at fair value at December 31, 2010. Accordingly, we record the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interests at the greater of (i) the initial carrying amount, increased or decreased for the noncontrolling interest's share of net income or loss and its share of other comprehensive income or loss and dividends or (ii) the redemption value. In accordance with ASC 810, the redeemable noncontrolling interests were classified outside of permanent equity, as a mezzanine item, in the balance sheet.
Real Property Owned
     Real property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of construction period interest. The cost of real property acquired is allocated to net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their respective fair values. These properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for improvements. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings and improvements. We consider costs incurred in conjunction with re-leasing properties, including tenant improvements and lease commissions, to represent the acquisition of productive assets and, accordingly, such costs are reflected as investment activities in our statement of cash flows.
     The remaining purchase price is allocated among identifiable intangible assets primarily consisting of the above or below market component of in-place leases and the value of in-place leases. The value allocable to the above or below market component of the acquired in-place lease is determined based upon the present value (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the acquired leases) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining term, and (ii) management's estimate of the amounts that would be paid using fair market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated to above market leases are included in acquired lease intangibles and below market leases are included in other liabilities in the balance sheet and are amortized to rental income over the remaining terms of the respective leases.
     The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values and customer relationship values based on management's evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant's lease and the Company's overall relationship with that respective tenant. Characteristics considered by management in allocating these values include the nature and extent of the Company's existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenant's credit quality and expectations of lease renewals, among other factors. The estimated aggregate amortization expense for acquired lease intangibles is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 18.2 years and is as follows for the periods indicated (in thousands):
 
     The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to determine if facts and circumstances suggest that the assets may be impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider external factors relating to each asset and the existence of a master lease which may link the cash flows of an individual asset to a larger portfolio of assets leased to the same tenant. If these factors and the projected undiscounted cash flows of the asset over the remaining depreciation period indicate that the asset will not be recoverable, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair market value. In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the senior housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.
Capitalization of Construction Period Interest
     We capitalize interest costs associated with funds used to finance the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest which approximates our cost of financing. We capitalized interest costs of $20,792,000, $41,170,000, and $25,029,000 during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to construction of real property owned by us. Our interest expense reflected in the consolidated statements of income has been reduced by the amounts capitalized.
Gain on Sale of Assets
     We recognize sales of assets only upon the closing of the transaction with the purchaser. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as deposits and classified as other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Gains on assets sold are recognized using the full accrual method upon closing when (i) the collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured, (ii) we are not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale to earn the profit, (iii) we have received adequate initial investment from the buyer and (iv) other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. Gains may be deferred in whole or in part until the sales satisfy the requirements of gain recognition on sales of real estate.
Real Estate Loans Receivable
     Real estate loans receivable consist of mortgage loans and other real estate loans. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectability risks. The loans are primarily collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership interest in, the related properties, corporate guaranties and/or personal guaranties.
Allowance for Losses on Loans Receivable
     The allowance for losses on loans receivable is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. We evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of the underlying collateral. If such factors indicate that there is greater risk of loan charge-offs, additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the contractual terms of the original loan agreement. Consistent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. At December 31, 2010, we had loans with outstanding balances of $9,691,000 on non-accrual status ($67,126,000 at December 31, 2009). To the extent circumstances improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we will return these loans to full accrual status. While a loan is on non-accrual status, any cash receipts are applied against the outstanding principal balance.
Goodwill
     We account for goodwill in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is tested for impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds the reporting unit's fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount of that goodwill.
Fair Value of Derivative Instruments
     The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair values for our derivatives are estimated by utilizing pricing models that consider forward yield curves and discount rates. Such
 
amounts and the recognition of such amounts are subject to significant estimates that may change in the future. See Note 11 for additional information.
Federal Income Tax
     No provision has been made for federal income taxes since we have elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and we believe that we have met the requirements for qualification as such for each taxable year. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local income taxes. See Note 18 for additional information.
Earnings Per Share
     Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the period adjusted for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings per share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that the number of shares is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.
New Accounting Standards
     In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") amended the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities. The new guidance, to be applied on a continuous basis, requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a variable interest entity will need to be consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise's ability to direct and influence the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact its economic performance. This amendment became effective as of January 1, 2010. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
     In July 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010-20, Receivables (Topic 310): Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses ("ASU 2010-20"). This update expands the required disclosures regarding the credit quality of our financing receivables, how risk is analyzed and assessed in arriving at the allowance for credit losses, and the changes (and reasons for the changes) in the allowance for credit losses. Both new and existing disclosures must be disaggregated by portfolio segment and class. The disaggregation of information is based on the level at which an entity develops and documents a systematic method for determining its allowance for credit losses. This update is effective for interim periods and fiscal years ending after December 15, 2010. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
Reclassifications
     Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
3. Real Property Acquisitions and Development
Senior Housing Operating Partnerships
Merrill Gardens Partnership
     During the three months ended September 30, 2010, we completed the formation of our partnership with Merrill Gardens LLC to own and operate a portfolio of 38 combination senior housing and care communities located primarily in West Coast markets. We own an 80% partnership interest and Merrill Gardens owns the remaining 20% interest and continues to manage the communities. The partnership owns and operates 13 communities previously owned by us and 25 additional communities previously owned by Merrill Gardens. The transaction took advantage of the structure authorized by the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 ("RIDEA"). (See Note 18 for additional discussion of RIDEA.) The results of operations for this partnership have been included in our consolidated results of operations beginning as of September 1, 2010 and are a component of our senior housing operating segment. Consolidation is based on a combination of ownership interest and control of operational decision-making authority.
     In conjunction with the formation of the partnership, we contributed $254,885,000 of cash and the 13 properties previously owned by us, and the partnership assumed the secured debt relating to these properties. Merrill Gardens contributed the remaining 25 properties to the partnership and the secured debt relating to these properties in exchange for their 20% interest in the partnership. The 13 properties are recorded at their historical carrying values and the noncontrolling interest was established based on such values. The difference between the fair value of the consideration received relating to these properties and the historical allocation of the 20% noncontrolling interest was recorded in capital in excess of par value. The total purchase price for the 25 communities acquired have been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based upon their respective fair values in accordance with the Company's accounting policies. Such allocations have not been finalized as we await final asset valuations and, as such, the allocation of the purchase consideration included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2010 is
 
preliminary and subject to adjustment. The 20% noncontrolling interest relating to the acquired 25 properties is also reflected at estimated fair value. The weighted average useful life of the acquired intangibles was 1.9 years. The following table presents the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to assets and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values (in thousands):
Senior Star Partnership
     During the three months ended December 31, 2010, we completed the formation of our partnership with Senior Star Living to own and operate a portfolio of nine combination senior housing and care communities located primarily in six states. We own a 90% partnership interest and Senior Star owns the remaining 10% interest and continues to manage the communities. The partnership owns and operates two communities previously owned by us and seven additional communities previously owned by Senior Star. The transaction took advantage of the structure authorized by RIDEA. (See Note 18 for additional discussion of RIDEA.) The results of operations for this partnership have been included in our consolidated results of operations beginning as of December 30, 2010 and are a component of our senior housing operating segment. Consolidation is based on a combination of ownership interest and control of operational decision-making authority.
     In conjunction with the formation of the partnership, we contributed $152,270,000 of cash and the two properties previously owned by us. Senior Star contributed the remaining seven properties to the partnership and the secured debt relating to these properties in exchange for their 10% interest in the partnership. The two properties are recorded at their historical carrying values and the noncontrolling interest was established based on such values. The difference between the fair value of the consideration received relating to these properties and the historical allocation of the 10% noncontrolling interest was recorded in capital in excess of par value. The total purchase price for the seven communities acquired has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based upon their respective fair values in accordance with the Company's accounting policies. Such allocations have not been finalized as we await final asset valuations and, as such, the allocation of the purchase consideration included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2010 is preliminary and subject to adjustment. The 10% noncontrolling interest relating to the acquired seven properties is also reflected at estimated fair value. The weighted average useful life of the acquired intangibles was 2.08 years. The following table presents the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to assets and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values (in thousands):
 
     The following unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations have been prepared as if the senior housing operating partnerships had occurred as of January 1, 2009 based on the preliminary purchase price allocations discussed above. The pro forma results reflect the significant impact of the aforementioned RIDEA transactions on the Company's consolidated revenues. Amounts are in thousands, except per share data:
Strategic Medical Office Partnership
     On December 31, 2010, we formed a strategic partnership with a national medical office building company ("MOBJV") whereby the partnership invested in 17 medical office properties. We own a controlling interest in 11 properties and consolidate them. Consolidation is based on a combination of ownership interest and control of operational decision-making authority. We do not own a controlling interest in six properties and account for them under the equity method. Our investment in the strategic partnership provides us access to health systems and includes development and property management resources. The results of operations for this partnership have been included in our consolidated results of operations beginning as of December 31, 2010 and are a component of our medical facilities segment.
     In conjunction with the formation of the partnership, we contributed $225,173,000 of cash, convertible preferred stock valued at $16,667,000, options valued at $2,721,000 and a note payable of $8,333,000 with an interest rate of 6%. MOBJV contributed the properties to the partnership and the secured debt relating to these properties in exchange for their ownership interest in the partnership. The partnership contains certain contingent consideration arrangements ranging from $0 to $35,008,000. Amounts to be paid are contingent upon certain occupancy and development project performance thresholds. Of this amount, we recognized $19,453,000 as an estimate of additional purchase consideration based on the probability amounts will be paid by the expiration date of the commitments. Of the remaining $15,555,000 that was not recognized, $12,500,000 would be required to be settled in the Company's common stock if certain performance thresholds, which we did not deem probable, are met. The total purchase price for the assets acquired by the partnership has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based upon their respective fair values in accordance with the Company's accounting policies. Goodwill represents the future development pipeline expected to be generated by the principles. Cash flows from this future pipeline are expected to come from development activities and the ability to perform the management functions at the assets after the properties are developed. Such allocations have not been finalized as we await final asset valuations and, as such, the allocation of the purchase consideration included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2010 is preliminary and subject to adjustment. The noncontrolling interest relating to the properties is also reflected at estimated fair value. The weighted average useful life of the acquired intangibles was 26.2 years. The following table presents the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to assets and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values (in thousands):
 
Real Property Investment Activity
     The following is a summary of our real property investment activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
 
 
     The following is a summary of the construction projects that were placed into service and began generating revenues during the periods presented:
 
     Transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily represent costs incurred with the senior housing operating partnerships (including due diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services, and termination of pre-existing relationships computed based on the fair value of the assets acquired), lease termination fees and costs incurred in connection with the new property acquisitions.
     We purchased $23,097,000 of real property that had previously been financed by the Company with loans in 2008. This non-cash activity is appropriately not reflected in the accompanying statements of cash flows.
     At December 31, 2010, future minimum lease payments receivable under operating leases (excluding properties in our senior housing operating partnerships) are as follows (in thousands):
4. Real Estate Intangibles
     The following is a summary of our real estate intangibles, excluding those classified as held for sale, as of the dates indicated (dollars in thousands):
 
5. Dispositions, Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
     During the six months ended June 30, 2011, we sold 38 properties for net gains of $56,380,000. At June 30, 2011, we had one medical facility and three senior housing triple-net facilities that satisfied the requirements for held for sale treatment and such properties were properly recorded at the lesser of their estimated fair values less costs to sell or carrying values. During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we recorded an impairment charge of $202,000 related to two of the held for sale senior housing triple-net facilities to adjust the carrying values to estimated fair values less costs to sell based on current sales price expectations. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we sold 38 properties for net gains of $163,933,000. At December 31, 2008, we had 15 medical facilities that were held for sale and we recorded an impairment charge of $32,648,000 to reduce the carrying values of certain properties to their estimated fair values less costs to sell. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold 36 properties for net gains of $43,394,000. At December 31, 2009, we had two senior housing triple-net facilities and eight medical facilities held for sale and recorded an impairment charge of $25,223,000 to reduce the medical office buildings to their estimated fair values less costs to sell. In determining the fair value of the held for sale properties, we used a combination of third party appraisals based on market comparable transactions, other market listings and asset quality as well as management calculations based on projected operating income and published capitalization rates. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we sold 38 properties, including seven of the held for sale medical facilities, for net gains of $36,115,000. At December 31, 2010, we had one medical facility and 16 senior housing triple-net facilities that satisfied the requirements for held for sale treatment and such properties were properly recorded at the lesser of their estimated fair values less costs to sell or carrying values. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded an impairment charge of $947,000 related to two of the held for sale medical facilities to adjust the carrying values to estimated fair values less costs to sell based on current sales price expectations. The following is a summary of our real property disposition activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
 
 
     During the year ended December 31, 2008, we completed the sale of 29 properties to Emeritus Corporation for $299,413,000, consisting of $249,413,000 in cash proceeds and $50,000,000 of seller financing, and we recognized a gain on sale of $145,646,000. Total funds of $299,413,000 were held in escrow for use in an Internal Revenue Code Section 1031 exchange, of which $162,558,000 was utilized during the year ended December 31, 2008. We had retained LandAmerica 1031 Exchange Services, Inc. ("LES") to act as a qualified intermediary. On November 26, 2008, LES and its parent, LandAmerica Financial Group, filed for bankruptcy protection. At that time, we had approximately $136,855,000 in two segregated escrow accounts (the "Exchange Funds") held by Centennial Bank, an affiliate of LES. Although the terms of our agreements with LES required that the Exchange Funds be returned to us, the return of the Exchange Funds was stayed by the bankruptcy proceedings. On February 23, 2009, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Richmond Division, entered an order approving the stipulation and settlement agreement among LES, the unsecured creditors committees and us. Pursuant to the terms of that settlement agreement, the Exchange Funds plus $918,000 of interest were returned to us on February 23, 2009, and we made a settlement payment of $2,000,000 to the LES bankruptcy estate. In connection with these proceedings, we incurred approximately $500,000 in expenses. The settlement payment and expenses were recorded as reductions of gains on sales in 2008.
     We have reclassified the income and expenses attributable to all properties sold prior to or held for sale at June 30, 2011 to discontinued operations. Expenses include an allocation of interest expense based on property carrying values and our weighted average cost of debt. The following illustrates the reclassification impact as a result of classifying properties as discontinued operations for the periods presented (in thousands):
6. Real Estate Loans Receivable
     The following is a summary of our real estate loans receivable (in thousands):
 
     The following is a summary of our real estate loan activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
 
     The following is a summary of the allowance for losses on loans receivable for the periods presented (in thousands):
     As a result of our quarterly evaluations, we recorded $29,684,000 of provision for loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2010. This amount includes the write-off of loans totaling $33,591,000 primarily related to certain early stage senior housing and CCRC development projects. These related to three separate borrowers where new factors arose that, under the circumstances, resulted in the determination to record the write-offs. This was offset by a net reduction of the allowance balance by $3,907,000, resulting in an allowance for loan losses of $1,276,000 relating to real estate loans with outstanding balances of $9,691,000, all of which were on non-accrual status at December 31, 2010.
     During the quarter ended September 30, 2010, we received title to a parcel of land and an equity interest in satisfaction of certain loans outstanding with a combined balance of $38,848,000. For balance sheet purposes, the land parcel is recorded as land and the equity interest is accounted for as an equity method investment (in our senior housing triple-net segment), the amounts of which were recorded at their estimated fair values at the transaction dates. The equity interest is in an entity deemed to be a VIE, however, we have determined that we are not the primary beneficiary as we do not have the ability to direct and influence the activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance. Our exposure to loss is limited to the recorded equity investment balance of $29,578,000.
     The following is a summary of our loan impairments (in thousands):
 
 
7. Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures
     During the six months ended June 30, 2010, we entered into a joint venture investment with Forest City Enterprises (NYSE:FCE.A and FCE.B). We acquired a 49% interest in a seven-building life science campus located in University Park in Cambridge, MA, which is immediately adjacent to the campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Six buildings closed on February 22, 2010 and the seventh closed on June 30, 2010. The portfolio is 100% leased.
     In connection with these transactions, we invested $174,692,000 of cash which is recorded as an equity investment on the balance sheet. Our share of the non-recourse secured debt assumed by the joint venture was approximately $156,729,000 with weighted-average interest rates of 7.1%. The results of operations for these properties have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition by the joint venture and are reflected in our income statement as income from unconsolidated joint ventures. The aggregate remaining unamortized basis difference of our investment in this joint venture of $15,141,000 at December 31, 2010 is primarily attributable to real estate and related intangible assets and will be amortized over the life of the related properties and included in the reported amount of income from unconsolidated joint ventures.
     In addition, on December 31, 2010, we entered into a strategic joint venture relationship with a national medical office building company. See Note 3 for additional information.
8. Customer Concentration
     The following table summarizes certain information about our customer concentration as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands):
 
9. Borrowings Under Line of Credit Arrangement and Related Items
     At December 31, 2010, we had an unsecured line of credit arrangement with a consortium of sixteen banks in the amount of $1,150,000,000, which is scheduled to expire on August 6, 2012. Borrowings under the agreement are subject to interest payable in periods no longer than three months at either the agent bank's prime rate of interest or the applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (0.87% at December 31, 2010). The applicable margin is based on certain of our debt ratings and was 0.6% at December 31, 2010. In addition, we pay a facility fee annually to each bank based on the bank's commitment amount. The facility fee depends on certain of our debt ratings and was 0.15% at December 31, 2010. We also pay an annual agent's fee of $50,000. Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement.
     The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the unsecured line of credit arrangement for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 
10. Senior Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt
     We have $3,034,949,000 of senior unsecured notes with annual stated interest rates ranging from 3.00% to 8.00%. The carrying amounts of the senior unsecured notes represent the par value of $3,064,930,000 adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts and other basis adjustments related to hedging the debt with derivative instruments. See Note 11 for further discussion regarding derivative instruments.
     During the three months ended December 31, 2006, we issued $345,000,000 of 4.75% senior unsecured convertible notes due December 2026, generating net proceeds of $337,517,000. The notes are convertible, in certain circumstances, into cash and, if applicable, shares of common stock at an initial conversion rate of 20.8833 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $47.89 per share. In general, upon conversion, the holder of each note would receive, in respect of the conversion value of such note, cash up to the principal amount of such note and common stock for the note's conversion value in excess of such principal amount. In addition, on each of December 1, 2011, December 1, 2016 and December 1, 2021, holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. During the three months ended March 31, 2009, we extinguished $5,000,000 of these notes and recognized a gain of $446,000. During the six months ended June 30, 2010, we extinguished $214,412,000 of these notes, recognized a loss of $8,837,000 and paid $18,552,000 to reacquire the equity component of convertible debt. As of December 31, 2010, we had $125,588,000 of these notes outstanding.
     In July 2007, we issued $400,000,000 of 4.75% senior unsecured convertible notes due July 2027, generating net proceeds of $388,943,000. The notes are convertible, in certain circumstances, into cash and, if applicable, shares of our common stock at an initial conversion rate of 20.0000 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $50.00 per share. In general, upon conversion, the holder of each note would receive, in respect of the conversion value of such note, cash up to the principal amount of such note and common stock for the note's conversion value in excess of such principal amount. In addition, on each of July 15, 2012, July 15, 2017 and July 15, 2022, holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. During the three months ended March 31, 2009, we extinguished $5,000,000 of these notes and recognized a gain of $594,000. During the six months ended June 30, 2010, we extinguished $226,914,000 of these notes, recognized a loss of $16,235,000 and paid $21,062,000 to reacquire the equity component of convertible debt. As of December 31, 2010, we had $168,086,000 of these notes outstanding.
     During the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, we issued $494,403,000 of 3.00% senior unsecured convertible notes due December 2029, generating net proceeds of $486,084,000. The notes are convertible, in certain circumstances, into cash and, if applicable, shares of common stock at an initial conversion rate of 19.5064 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $51.27 per share. In general, upon conversion, the holder of each note would receive, in respect of the conversion value of such note, cash up to the principal amount of such note and common stock for the note's conversion value in excess of such principal amount. In addition, on each of December 1, 2014, December 1, 2019 and December 1, 2024, holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In connection with this issuance, we recognized $29,925,000 of equity component of convertible debt.
     During the year ended December 31, 2009, we extinguished $183,147,000 of senior unsecured notes with a weighted-average interest rate of 7.82% and recognized losses of $19,269,000. During the three months ended June 30, 2010, we issued $450,000,000 of 6.125% senior unsecured notes due 2020 with net proceeds of $446,328,000. During the three months ended September 30, 2010, we issued $450,000,000 of 4.70% senior unsecured notes due 2017 with net proceeds of $445,768,000. During the three months ended December 31, 2010, we issued $450,000,000 of 4.95% senior unsecured notes due 2021 with net proceeds of $443,502,000.
     We have secured debt totaling $1,125,906,000, collateralized by owned properties, with annual interest rates ranging from 3.01% to 8.74%. The carrying amounts of the secured debt represent the par value of $1,133,715,000 adjusted for any unamortized fair value adjustments. The carrying values of the properties securing the debt totaled $2,054,820,000 at December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we issued $157,156,000 of first mortgage loans principal with a rate of 5.45% secured by 15 properties.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2010, we assumed $564,657,000 of first mortgage loans principal with an average rate of 6.06% secured by 60 properties. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we extinguished $194,493,000 of first mortgage loans principal with an average rate of 6.07% and recognized a loss of $9,099,000. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we extinguished 20 secured debt loans totaling $81,715,000 with a weighted-average interest rate of 7.21% and recognized extinguishment losses of $5,838,000. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we extinguished eight secured debt loans totaling $50,475,000 with a weighted-average interest rate of 6.67% and recognized extinguishment gains of $2,094,000.
     We adopted FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") topic for Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) ("Convertible Debt Guidance"), effective January 1, 2009. It provides guidance on accounting for convertible debt that may be settled in cash upon conversion. It requires bifurcation of the convertible debt instrument into a debt component and an equity component. The value of the debt component is based upon the estimated fair value of a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature. The difference between the contractual principal on the debt and the value allocated to the debt is recorded as an equity component and represents the conversion feature of the instrument. The excess of the contractual principal amount of the debt over its estimated fair value is amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the period used to estimate the fair value.
     Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements.
     At December 31, 2010, the annual principal payments due on these debt obligations are as follows (in thousands):
11. Derivative Instruments
     We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We may elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to manage the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. Derivatives are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities. The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair values of our derivatives are estimated by pricing models that consider the forward yield curves and discount rates. Such amounts and the recognition of such amounts are subject to significant estimates that may change in the future.
     The following is a summary of the fair value of our derivative instruments (dollars in thousands):
Cash Flow Hedges
     For instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of other comprehensive income ("OCI"), and reclassified into earnings in the same period, or periods, during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings. Approximately $1,643,000 of losses, which are included in accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI"), are expected to be reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months.
 
     The following presents the impact of derivative instruments on the statement of operations and OCI for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
     On August 7, 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap (the "August 2009 Swap") for a total notional amount of $52,198,000 to hedge seven years of interest payments associated with long-term LIBOR based borrowings. This swap was terminated on September 30, 2010 for a cash payment of $6,645,000 which has been deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. The effective portion is being amortized over the remaining term of the original swap as an adjustment to the yield on our LIBOR-based debt. The August 2009 Swap had an effective date of August 12, 2009 and a maturity date of September 1, 2016. The August 2009 Swap had the economic effect of fixing $52,198,000 at 3.93% plus a credit spread for seven years. The August 2009 Swap had been designated as a cash flow hedge and we expected it to be highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of interest payments on $52,198,000 of long-term debt due to changes in the LIBOR swap rate.
     On September 28, 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap (the "September 2009 Swap") for a total notional amount of $48,155,000 to hedge seven years of interest payments associated with long-term LIBOR based borrowings. This swap was terminated on September 30, 2010 for a cash payment of $4,365,000 which has been deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. The effective portion is being amortized over the remaining term of the original swap as an adjustment to the yield on our LIBOR-based debt. The September 2009 Swap had an effective date of September 30, 2009 and a maturity date of October 1, 2016. The September 2009 Swap had the economic effect of fixing $48,155,000 at 3.2675% plus a credit spread for seven years. The September 2009 Swap had been designated as a cash flow hedge and we expected it to be highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of interest payments on $48,155,000 of long-term debt due to changes in the LIBOR swap rate.
     On December 31, 2010, we assumed an interest rate swap (the "December 2010 Swap") for a total notional amount of $12,650,000 to hedge interest payments associated with long-term LIBOR based borrowings. The December 2010 Swap has an effective date of December 31, 2010 and a maturity date of December 31, 2013. The December 2010 Swap has the economic effect of fixing $12,650,000 at 5.50% plus a credit spread through the swap's maturity. In January 2011, the December 2010 Swap was designated as a cash flow hedge and we expect it to be highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of interest payments on $12,650,000 of long-term debt due to changes in the LIBOR swap rate.
     During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recognized a realized loss on derivatives of $23,393,000 related to forward-starting interest rate swaps that were in place to hedge future debt issuances when the timing of those issuances was revised.
Fair Value Hedges
     For derivative instruments that are designated as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the derivative as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged risk are recognized in current earnings. There were no outstanding fair value hedges at December 31, 2010 or December 31, 2009.
12. Commitments and Contingencies
     We have two outstanding letters of credit issued for the benefit of certain insurance companies that provide workers' compensation insurance to one of our tenants. Our obligation to provide the letters of credit terminates in 2013. At December 31, 2010, our obligation under the letters of credit was $4,200,000.
     We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of certain insurance companies that provide liability and property insurance to one of our tenants. Our obligation to provide the letter of credit terminates in 2013. At December 31, 2010, our obligation under the letter of credit was $1,000,000.
     We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of a city in Wisconsin that secures the completion and installation of certain public improvements by one of our tenants in connection with the development of a property. Our obligation to provide the letter of credit terminates in October 2013. At December 31, 2010, we had an obligation to provide a letter of credit in the amount of $215,000.
     We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit of a village in Illinois that secures the completion, installation and
 
maintenance of certain public improvements by one of our partnerships in connection with the development of a property. Our obligation to provide the letter of credit terminates in August 2011. At December 31, 2010, our obligation under the letter of credit was $67,932.
     At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding construction in process of $356,793,000 for leased properties and were committed to providing additional funds of approximately $268,055,000 to complete construction. At December 31, 2010, we had contingent purchase obligations totaling $33,613,000. These contingent purchase obligations relate to unfunded capital improvement obligations. Rents due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.
     We evaluate our leases for operating versus capital lease treatment in accordance with ASC Topic 840 "Leases." A lease is classified as a capital lease if it provides for transfer of ownership of the leased asset at the end of the lease term, contains a bargain purchase option, has a lease term greater than 75% of the economic life of the leased asset, or if the net present value of the future minimum lease payments are in excess of 90% of the fair value of the leased asset. One lease related to a senior housing facility contains a bargain purchase option and has been classified as a capital lease. At December 31, 2010, we had operating lease obligations of $230,189,000 relating to certain ground leases and company office space. We incurred rental expense relating to company office space of $1,280,000, $1,138,000 and $1,452,000 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Regarding the ground leases, we have sublease agreements with certain of our operators that require the operators to reimburse us for our monthly operating lease obligations. At December 31, 2010, aggregate future minimum rentals to be received under these noncancelable subleases totaled $32,329,000.
     At December 31, 2010, future minimum lease payments due under operating and capital leases are as follows (in thousands):
 
13. Stockholders' Equity
     The following is a summary of our stockholder's equity capital accounts as of the dates indicated:
     During the year ended December 31, 2008, certain holders of our Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock converted 1,362,887 shares into 975,397 shares of our common stock, leaving 441,313 of such shares outstanding at December 31, 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, certain holders of our Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock converted 41,600 shares into 29,771 shares of our common stock, leaving 399,713 of such shares outstanding at December 31, 2009. During the nine months ended September 30, 2010, certain holders of our Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock converted 394,200 shares into 282,078 shares of our common stock, leaving 5,513 of such shares outstanding which were redeemed by us on September 30, 2010. During the three months ended September 30, 2010, the holder of our Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock converted 74,380 shares into 56,935 shares of our common stock, leaving no such shares outstanding at December 31, 2010.
Preferred Stock.
     In July 2003, we closed a public offering of 4,000,000 shares of 7.875% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. These
 
shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, on or after July 9, 2008.
     In September 2004, we closed a public offering of 7,000,000 shares of 7.625% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, on or after September 14, 2009.
     During the three months ended December 31, 2010, we issued 349,854 shares of 6.00% Series H Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock in connection with a business combination. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, on or after December 31, 2015. See Note 3 for additional information.
     The following is a summary of our common stock issuances during the periods indicated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
Common Stock.
     . The following is a summary of our dividend payments (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
Dividends
Comprehensive Income
     The following is a summary of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) as of the dates indicated (in thousands):
 
     The following is a summary of comprehensive income/(loss) for the periods indicated (in thousands):
Other Equity
     Other equity consists of accumulated option compensation expense which represents the amount of amortized compensation costs related to stock options awarded to employees and directors. Expense, which is recognized as the options vest based on the market value at the date of the award, totaled $1,634,000, $1,629,000 and $1,503,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
14. Stock Incentive Plans
     Our Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan authorizes up to 6,200,000 shares of common stock to be issued at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The 2005 Plan replaced the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan and the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors. The options granted to officers and key employees under the 1995 Plan continue to vest through 2010 and expire ten years from the date of grant. Our non-employee directors, officers and key employees are eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan. The 2005 Plan allows for the issuance of, among other things, stock options, restricted stock, deferred stock units and dividend equivalent rights. Vesting periods for options, deferred stock units and restricted shares generally range from three years for non-employee directors to five years for officers and key employees. Options expire ten years from the date of grant.
Valuation Assumptions
     The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:
 
     The dividend yield represented the dividend yield of our common stock on the dates of grant. Our computation of expected volatility was based on historical volatility. The risk-free interest rates used were the 7-year U.S. Treasury Notes yield on the date of grant. The expected life was based on historical experience of similar awards, giving consideration to the contractual terms, vesting schedules and expectations regarding future employee behavior.
Option Award Activity
     The following table summarizes information about stock option activity for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010:
 
     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2010:
     The aggregate intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the underlying options and the quoted price of our common stock for the options that were in-the-money at December 31, 2010. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised under our stock incentive plans was $1,798,000, $737,000 and $2,042,000, respectively (determined as of the date of option exercise). Cash received from option exercises under our stock incentive plans was $4,022,000, $3,676,000 and $3,547,000 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
     As of December 31, 2010, there was approximately $2,935,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options granted under our stock incentive plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of four years. As of December 31, 2010, there was approximately $8,010,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock granted under our stock incentive plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of three years.
     The following table summarizes information about non-vested stock incentive awards as of December 31, 2010 and changes for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010:
 
     We adopted the fair value-based method of accounting for share-based payments effective January 1, 2003 using the prospective method. Currently, we use the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to estimate the value of stock option grants and expect to continue to use this acceptable option valuation model. We recognize compensation cost for share-based grants on a straight-line basis through the date the awards become fully vested or to the retirement eligible date, if sooner. Compensation cost totaled $11,823,000, $9,633,000 and $8,530,000 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
15. Earnings Per Share
     The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):
     The diluted earnings per share calculations exclude the dilutive effect of 280,000, 351,000 and 0 stock options for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, because the exercise prices were more than the average market price. The outstanding convertible senior unsecured notes were not included in the 2009 calculations as the effect of the conversions into common stock was anti-dilutive for that period. The Series H Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock issued in 2010 were excluded from the calculation for 2010 as the effect of the conversions was anti-dilutive.
16. Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
     The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value.
 The fair value of mortgage loans and other real estate loans receivable is generally estimated by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities.
Mortgage Loans and Other Real Estate Loans Receivable
 The carrying amount approximates fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
 Available-for-sale equity investments are recorded at their fair value based on publicly available trading prices.
Available-for-sale Equity Investments
 The carrying amount of the unsecured line of credit arrangement approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.
Borrowings Under Unsecured Lines of Credit Arrangements
 The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable was estimated based on publicly available trading prices.
Senior Unsecured Notes
 The fair value of fixed rate secured debt is estimated by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities. The carrying amount of variable rate secured debt approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.
Secured Debt
 Interest rate swap agreements are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair market value. Fair market value is estimated by utilizing pricing models that consider forward yield curves and discount rates.
Interest Rate Swap Agreements
     The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as follows (in thousands):
     U.S. GAAP provides authoritative guidance for measuring and disclosing fair value measurements of assets and liabilities. The guidance for financial assets and liabilities was previously adopted as the standard for those assets and liabilities as of January 1, 2008. Additional guidance for non-financial assets and liabilities is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, and was adopted as the standard for those assets and liabilities as of January 1, 2009. The impact of adoption was not significant. The guidance defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The guidance describes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:
     
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
     The market approach is utilized to measure fair value for our financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value on a recurring basis. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities.
 
 
     
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
     In addition to items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we also have assets and liabilities in our balance sheet that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. As these assets and liabilities are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis, they are not included in the tables above. Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations (see Note 3) and asset impairments (see Note 5 for impairments of real property and Note 6 for impairments of loans receivable). We have determined that the fair value measurements included in each of these assets and liabilities rely primarily on Company-specific inputs and our assumptions about the use of the assets and settlement of liabilities, as observable inputs are not available. As such, we have determined that each of these fair value measurements generally reside within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. We estimate the fair value of real estate using unobservable data such as net operating income and estimated capitalization and discount rates. We also consider local and national industry market data including comparable sales, and commonly engage an external real estate appraiser to assist us in our estimation of fair value.
17. Segment Reporting
     We invest in senior housing and health care real estate. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three business segments: senior housing triple-net, senior housing operating and medical facilities. Our primary senior housing triple-net properties include skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, independent living/continuing care retirement communities and combinations thereof. Under the senior housing triple-net segment, we invest in senior housing and health care real estate through acquisition and financing of primarily single tenant properties. Properties acquired are primarily leased under triple-net leases and we are not involved in the management of the property. Our senior housing operating properties include assisted living facilities and independent living/continuing care retirement communities that our owned and/or operated through RIDEA partnership structures. Our primary medical facility properties include medical office buildings, hospitals and life science buildings. Our medical office buildings are typically leased to multiple tenants and generally require a certain level of property management. Our hospital investments are structured similar to our senior housing triple-net investments. Our life science investments represent investments in an unconsolidated joint venture (see Note 7 for additional information). The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements). There are no intersegment sales or transfers. We evaluate performance based upon net operating income of the combined properties in each segment. Non-segment revenue consists mainly of interest income on non-real estate investments and other income. Non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including cash, deferred loan expenses and corporate offices and equipment among others. Non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual segments in determining net operating income.
     During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we changed the name of our senior housing and care segment to senior housing triple-net. Additionally, we added a new senior housing operating segment. The following amounts previously reported in senior housing and care for the year ended December 31, 2010 have been reclassified to senior housing operating in the current year: (i) resident fees and services income of $51,006,000; (ii) property operating expenses of $32,621,000; (iii) net operating income of $18,385,000; (iv) real estate depreciation and amortization of $15,405,000; (v) interest expense of $6,321,000; and (vi) total assets of $1,080,416,000. There were no senior housing operating segment investments prior to September 1, 2010.
     Summary information for the reportable segments during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is as follows (in thousands and includes amounts from discontinued operations):
 
 
18. Income Taxes and Distributions
     To qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, at least 90% of taxable income (excluding 100% of net capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders. Real estate investment trusts that do not distribute a certain amount of current year taxable income in the current year are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The main differences between undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and financial statement purposes are the recognition of straight-line rent for reporting purposes, differing useful lives and depreciation and amortization methods for real property and the provision for loan losses for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes.
     Cash distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as follows:
     At December 31, 2010, we had U.S. federal tax losses from our taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRS") of $19,812,000, as well as apportioned state tax losses of $17,137,000 available for carryforward. Valuation allowances have been established for these assets based upon our assessment, as it is more likely than not that such assets may not be realized. The U.S. federal and state tax loss carryforwards expire from 2011 through 2030.
     Tax expense reflected in the financial statements represents state and local income taxes.
     As a result of certain acquisitions, we are subject to corporate level taxes for related asset dispositions for the period December 30, 2010 through December 30, 2020 ("built-in gains tax"). The amount of income potentially subject to this special corporate level tax is generally equal to (a) the excess of the fair value of the asset as of December 31, 2010 over its adjusted tax basis as of December 31, 2010, or (b) the actual amount of gain, whichever of (a) and (b) is lower. Some but not all gains recognized during this period of time could be offset by available net operating losses and capital loss carryforwards. We have not recorded a deferred tax liability as a result of the potential built-in gains tax based on our intentions with respect to such properties and available tax planning strategies.
     Under the provisions of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 ("RIDEA"), for taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008, the REIT may lease "qualified health care properties" on an arm's-length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an "eligible independent contractor."
 
Generally, the rent received from the TRS will meet the related party rent exception and will be treated as "rents from real property." A "qualified health care property" includes real property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients.
     We entered into two joint ventures in 2010 that were structured under RIDEA. Resident level rents and related operating expenses for these facilities are reported in the consolidated financial statements and are subject to federal taxes as the operations of such facilities are included in a TRS. Certain net operating loss carryforwards could be utilized to offset taxable income in future years.
19. Retirement Arrangements
     Under the retirement plan and trust (the "401(k) Plan"), eligible employees may make contributions, and we may make matching contributions and a profit sharing contribution. Our contributions to the 401(k) Plan totaled $1,341,000, $1,201,000 and $1,013,000 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
     We have a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP"), a non-qualified defined benefit pension plan, which provides one executive officer with supplemental deferred retirement benefits. The SERP provides an opportunity for participants to receive retirement benefits that cannot be paid under our tax-qualified plans because of the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Benefits are based on compensation and length of service and the SERP is unfunded. We expect to contribute $1,500,000 to the SERP during the 2011 fiscal year. Benefit payments are expected to total $2,367,000 during the next five fiscal years and $2,410,000 thereafter. We use a December 31 measurement date for the SERP. The accrued liability on our balance sheet for the SERP was $4,066,000 at December 31, 2010 ($3,287,000 at December 31, 2009).
     The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in the SERP's benefit obligations and a statement of the funded status for the periods indicated (in thousands):
     The following table shows the components of net periodic benefit costs for the periods indicated (in thousands):
     The following table provides information for the SERP, which has an accumulated benefit in excess of plan assets (in thousands):
 
     The following table reflects the weighted-average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost for the SERP:
20. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)
     The following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands, except per share data). The sum of individual quarterly amounts may not agree to the annual amounts included in the consolidated statements of income due to rounding.
 
 
21. Subsequent Events
     On January 24, 2011, we provided notice to KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent, of our desire to extend the $1.15 billion unsecured line of credit arrangement with a consortium of sixteen banks. Under the terms of the loan agreement, we have the right to extend the revolving line of credit for one year if we are in compliance with all covenants and pay an extension fee of $1,725,000. As a result of the extension, the line of credit will now expire on August 6, 2012. Please see Note 9 for additional information regarding the line of credit.
Line of credit extension
     On February 15, 2011, we signed definitive agreements to form an $890 million partnership with Benchmark Senior Living, which will include 34 senior housing communities. Benchmark is a senior housing operator in New England and will become the largest operator in our portfolio by investment balance. This investment is structured as a RIDEA partnership owned 95% by us and 5% by Benchmark. Benchmark will continue to provide management services to the communities under an incentive-based management contract.
Benchmark Senior Living
 
Schedule
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule IV  Mortgage Loans on Real Estate
 








