FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20110309084944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Explanatory Note
     Health Care REIT, Inc. (the "Company") is filing this Amendment No. 1 to Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Amendment") to amend and replace Exhibit 99.1 of its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 28, 2011 (the "Original Form 8-K") with Exhibit 99.1 filed herewith to update the Company's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements relating to the proposed "Acquisition" (as defined in the Original Form 8-K) to reflect the issuance of 28,750,000 shares of the Company's common stock and 14,375,000 shares of the Company's 6.50% Series I cumulative convertible perpetual preferred stock, the net proceeds of which will be used to fund a portion of the Acquisition, and the proposed issuance and sale of senior unsecured notes by the Company, a portion of the net proceeds of which will be used to fund a portion of the Acquisition.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 should be read in conjunction with the Original Form 8-K and this Amendment.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
     The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements presented below have been prepared based on certain pro forma adjustments to the historical consolidated financial statements of Health Care REIT, Inc. (the "Company") as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 and FC-GEN Acquisition Holding, LLC ("Acquisition Holding") as of September 30, 2010 and the twelve months ended September 30, 2010. The historical consolidated financial statements of the Company are contained in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. The historical consolidated financial statements of Acquisition Holding are included as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2011.
     The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements give effect to (i) the proposed acquisition by the Company of 100% of the equity interests in Acquisition Holding, which indirectly owns (1) 140 senior housing and care facilities (137 of fee simple and three pursuant to ground leases) and (2) the leasehold interests in and options to purchase seven senior housing and care facilities, for approximately $2.4 billion (collectively, the "Acquisition") and (ii) the proposed lease by the Company to Genesis Operations, LLC ("Tenant") under which the Tenant will operate the acquired facilities (the "Master Lease"). Prior to closing, FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC ("OpCo") will be a direct subsidiary of Acquisition Holding. Prior to the closing date, Acquisition Holding will contribute the assets, liabilities and equity interests relating to (i) the business of operating and managing senior housing and care facilities, (ii) joint venture entities and (iii) other ancillary businesses to OpCo and then distribute all of the equity interests in OpCo to FC-GEN Investment, LLC ("FC-GEN"). Tenant is a wholly-owned subsidiary of OpCo. All obligations under the Master Lease will be guaranteed by OpCo. In addition, in conjunction with the Acquisition, Company will have the option to acquire a 9.9% ownership interest in OpCo for a fixed price equal to $47 million at any time during the initial term of the Master Lease. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 has been prepared as if the Acquisition had occurred as of that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2010 has been prepared as if the Acquisition had occurred as of January 1, 2010. Such statements also give effect to the application of proceeds from recently consummated common stock and preferred stock offerings undertaken by the Company in order to finance part of the Acquisition.
     The allocation of the purchase price of Acquisition Holding reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements has been based upon preliminary estimates of the fair value of assets ultimately acquired and liabilities ultimately assumed. A final determination of the fair values of Acquisition Holding's assets and liabilities, which cannot be made prior to the completion of the Acquisition, will be based on the actual valuation of the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of Acquisition Holding that exist as of the date of completion of the Acquisition. Consequently, amounts preliminarily allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities could change significantly from those used in the pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements presented below and could result in a material change in amortization of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities. Additionally, the senior unsecured notes proceeds assumed in the pro forma as adjusted columns are predicated on anticipated sales of debt securities by the Company. There can be no assurance that such sales will occur on the terms estimated or at all.
     In the opinion of the Company's management, the pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements include all significant necessary adjustments that can be factually supported to reflect the effects of the Acquisition. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are provided for informational purposes only. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are not necessarily and should not be assumed to be an indication of the results that would have been achieved had the Acquisition been completed as of the dates indicated or that may be achieved in the future. The completion of the valuation, the allocation of the purchase price, the impact of ongoing integration activities, the timing of completion of the Acquisition and other changes in Acquisition Holding tangible and intangible assets and liabilities that occur prior to completion of the Acquisition could cause material differences in the information presented. Furthermore, following consummation of the Acquisition, the Company expects to apply its own methodologies and judgments in accounting for the assets and liabilities acquired in the Acquisition, which may differ from those reflected in Acquisition Holding's historical consolidated financial statements and the pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the respective historical financial statements and the notes thereto of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2010 and of Acquisition Holding as of September 30, 2010 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and September 30, 2009 that are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 


