FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20121107172544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01   
Other Events.
 
Pursuant to ASC 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements  Discontinued Operations, certain assets of Health Care REIT, Inc. (the Company) are now classified as discontinued operations due to their sale during the nine months ended September 30, 2012 or their classification as held for sale at September 30, 2012. As a result, the Company is reclassifying in this Current Report its operations, including rental income, interest expense and provision for depreciation and amortization related to those assets for prior periods. The application of ASC 205-20 had no effect on net income attributable to common stockholders for any period presented therein.
 
This Current Report also includes changes we previously made and filed under Form 8-K dated May 10, 2012 to address certain comments received from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Those changes include (i) removing a non-GAAP income statement containing our pro rata net income from joint venture investments; (ii) adding disclosure regarding same store cash net operating income; (iii) defining property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses; and (iv) revising the reconciliation of net operating income in Item 7 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and adding a reconciliation of net operating income in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
 
As a result of the changes mentioned above, the Company updated portions of Item 6 - Selected Financial Data, Item 7 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. All other information contained in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and the other portions of Items 6, 7 and 8 have not been updated or modified (with the exception of certain minor changes to Items 7 and 8 to reflect proper cross-references). For more recent information regarding the Company, please see the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports and information filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission since February 17, 2012. Additionally, the Company is including, for information purposes, Financial Statement Schedules III and IV, which are unchanged from Item 15 of the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. The foregoing items are attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
Item 9.01 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
 
By:
 /s/ GEORGE L. CHAPMAN    
George L. Chapman
Its:  Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President
Dated: November 7, 2012
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Item 6.
  Selected Financial Data
 
The following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2011 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
     The following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated financial statements of Health Care REIT, Inc. for the periods presented and should be read together with the notes thereto contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K. Other important factors are identified in Item 1  Business and Item 1A  Risk Factors in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
Executive Summary
Company Overview
     Health Care REIT, Inc. is a real estate investment trust (REIT) that has been at the forefront of seniors housing and health care real estate since the company was founded in 1970.  We are an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio and our portfolio spans the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real estate, including seniors housing communities, skilled nursing facilities, medical office buildings, inpatient and outpatient medical centers and life science facilities. Our capital programs, when combined with comprehensive planning, development and property management services, make us a single-source solution for acquiring, planning, developing, managing, repositioning and monetizing real estate assets.  The following table summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2011:
 
 
Health Care Industry
 
     The demand for health care services, and consequently health care properties, is projected to reach unprecedented levels in the near future.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) projects that national health expenditures will rise to $3.5 trillion in 2015 or 18.2% of gross domestic product (GDP).  The average annual growth in national health expenditures for 2009 through 2019 is expected to be 6.3%, which is 0.2% faster than pre-health care reform estimates.
 
     While demographics are the primary driver of demand, economic conditions and availability of services contribute to health care service utilization rates.  We believe the health care property market may be less susceptible to fluctuations and economic downturns relative to other property sectors.  Investor interest in the market remains strong, especially in specific sectors such as medical office buildings, regardless of the current stringent lending environment.  As a REIT, we believe we are situated to benefit from any turbulence in the capital markets due to our access to capital.
 
     The total U.S. population is projected to increase by 20.4% through 2030.  The elderly population aged 65 and over is projected to increase by 79.2% through 2030.  The elderly are an important component of health care utilization, especially independent living services, assisted living services, skilled nursing services, inpatient and outpatient hospital services and physician ambulatory care.  Most health care services are provided within a health care facility such as a hospital, a physicians office or a seniors housing facility.  Therefore, we believe there will be continued demand for companies, such as ours, with expertise in health care real estate.
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
     The following chart illustrates the projected increase in the elderly population aged 65 and over:
 
 
     Source: U.S. Census Bureau
 
     Health care real estate investment opportunities tend to increase as demand for health care services increases.  We recognize the need for health care real estate as it correlates to health care service demand.  Health care providers require real estate to house their businesses and expand their services.  We believe that investment opportunities in health care real estate will continue to be present due to:
        
The specialized nature of the industry;
        
The projected population growth combined with stable or increasing health care utilization rates, which ensures demand; and
        
The on-going merger and acquisition activity.
 
Health Reform Laws
 
     On March 23, 2010, the President signed into law the PPACA and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, the Health Reform Laws). The Health Reform Laws contain various provisions that may directly impact us or the operators and tenants of our properties. Some provisions of the Health Reform Laws may have a positive impact on our operators or tenants revenues, by, for example, increasing coverage of uninsured individuals, while others may have a negative impact on the reimbursement of our operators or tenants by, for example, altering the market basket adjustments for certain types of health care facilities. The Health Reform Laws also enhance certain fraud and abuse penalty provisions that could apply to our operators and tenants, in the event of one or more violations of the federal health care regulatory laws. In addition, there are provisions that impact the health coverage that we and our operators and tenants provide to our respective employees. We cannot predict whether the existing Health Reform Laws, or future health care reform legislation or regulatory changes, will have a material impact on our operators or tenants property or business. If the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators and tenants are materially adversely impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected as well. Further, on February 2, 2011, the U.S. Senate refused to pass an overhaul repeal of the Health Reform Laws, and the focus has now shifted to attempts to repeal or amend individual sections of the Health Reform Laws. Further, federal courts are also considering, and in some cases have ruled on, the legality of the Health Reform Laws.  The United States Supreme Court has agreed to review the constitutionality of the Health Reform Laws and will hear arguments beginning March 26, 2012.  We cannot predict whether any of these attempts to repeal or amend the Health Reform Laws will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a repeal or amendment would have on our operators and tenants.
 
    
Impact to Reimbursement of the Operators and Tenants of Our Properties
. The Health Reform Laws provide for various changes to the reimbursement that our operators and tenants may receive. One such change is a reduction to the market basket adjustments for inpatient acute hospitals, long-term care hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation facilities, home health agencies, psychiatric hospitals, hospice care and outpatient hospitals. Beginning in 2010, the otherwise applicable percentage increase to the market basket for inpatient acute hospitals will decrease. Beginning in 2012, inpatient acute hospitals will also face a downward adjustment of the annual percentage increase to the market basket rate by a productivity adjustment. The productivity adjustment may cause the annual percentage increase to be less than zero, which would mean that inpatient acute hospitals could face payment rates for a fiscal year that are less than the payment rates for the preceding year.
 
     A similar productivity adjustment also applies to skilled nursing facilities beginning in 2012, which means that the payment rates
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
for skilled nursing facilities may decrease from one year to the next. Long-term care hospitals have faced a specified percentage decrease in their annual update for discharges since 2010. Additionally, beginning in 2012, long-term care hospitals will be subject to the productivity adjustments, which may decrease the federal payment rates for long-term care hospitals. Similar productivity adjustments and other adjustments to payment rates have applied to inpatient rehabilitation facilities, psychiatric hospitals and outpatient hospitals since 2010.
 
     The Health Reform Laws revise other reimbursement provisions that may affect our business. For example, the Health Reform Laws reduce states Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (DSH) allotments, starting in 2014 through 2020. These allotments would have provided additional funding for DSH hospitals that are operators or tenants of our properties, and thus, any reduction might negatively impact these operators or tenants.
 
     Additionally, beginning in fiscal year 2015, Medicare payments will decrease to hospitals for treatment associated with hospital acquired conditions. This decreased payment rate may negatively impact our operators or tenants. To account for excess readmissions, the Health Reform Laws also call for a reduction of 1% in payments for those hospitals with higher-than-average risk-adjusted readmission rates beginning October 1, 2012, 2% beginning in fiscal year 2014, and 3% from fiscal year 2015 onward.  These reductions in payments to our operators or tenants may affect their ability to make payments to us.
 
     PPACA additionally calls for the creation of the Independent Payment Advisory Board (the Board), which will be responsible for establishing payment polices, including recommendations in the event that Medicare costs exceed a certain threshold. Proposals for recommendations submitted by the Board prior to December 31, 2018 may not include recommendations that would reduce payments for hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and physicians, among other providers, prior to December 31, 2019. The Health Reform Laws also create other mechanisms that could permit significant changes to payment. For example, PPACA establishes the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation to test innovative payment and service delivery models to reduce program expenditures through the use of demonstration programs that can waive existing reimbursement methodologies. As another example, on November 2, 2011, CMS published the final rule implementing section 3022 of the PPACA, which contains provisions relating to Medicare payment to providers and suppliers participating in Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) under the Medicare Shared Servings Program.  Under the program, Medicare will share a percentage of savings with ACOs that meet certain quality and saving requirements, thereby allowing providers to receive incentive payments in addition to their traditional fee-for-service payments. Under the program, more experienced providers may assume the risk of losses in exchange for greater potential rewards: ACOs may share up to 50% of the savings under the one-sided model and up to 60% of the savings under the two-sided model, depending on their quality and performance.  The amount of shared losses for which an ACO is liable in the two-sided model may not exceed the following percentages of its updated benchmark: 5% in the first performance year, 7.5% in the second year, and 10% in the third year.  These shared losses could affect the ability of ACO operators or tenants to meet their financial obligations to us.  The Health Reform Laws also provide additional Medicaid funding to allow states to carry out mandated expansion of Medicaid coverage to certain financially-eligible individuals beginning in 2014, and also permits states to expand their Medicaid coverage to these individuals as early as April 1, 2010, if certain conditions are met.  The Health Reform Laws also extend certain payment rules related to long-term acute care hospitals found in the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007.
 
     Additionally, although the Health Reform Laws delayed until at least October 1, 2011, the implementation of the Resource Utilization Group, Version Four (RUG-IV), which revises the payment classification system for skilled nursing facilities, the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010 repealed this delay retroactively to October 1, 2010. The Health Reform Laws also extend certain payment rules related to long-term acute care hospitals found in the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007.
 
     Finally, many other changes resulting from the Health Reform Laws, or implementing regulations, or guidance may negatively impact our operators and tenants. We will continue to monitor and evaluate the Health Reform Laws and implementing regulations and guidance to determine other potential effects of the reform.
 
    
Impact of Fraud and Abuse Provisions
. The Health Reform Laws revise health care fraud and abuse provisions that will affect our operators and tenants. Specifically, PPACA allows for up to treble damages under the Federal False Claims Act for violations related to state-based health insurance exchanges authorized by the Health Reform Laws, which will be implemented beginning in 2014. The Health Reform Laws also impose new civil monetary penalties for false statements or actions that lead to delayed inspections, with penalties of up to $15,000 per day for failure to grant timely access and up to $50,000 for a knowing violation. Additionally, the PPACA requires certain entities  including providers, suppliers, Medicaid managed care organizations, Medicare Advantage organizations, and prescription drug program sponsors  to report and return overpayments to the appropriate payer by the later of (a) sixty (60) days after the date the overpayment was identified, or (b) the date that the corresponding cost report is due.  The entity also must notify the payer in writing of the reason for the overpayment. A violation of these requirements may result in criminal liability, civil liability under the FCA, and/or exclusion from the federal health care programs.  On February 14, 2012, CMS published
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
a proposed rule implementing the PPACA requirement that health care providers and suppliers report and return self-identified overpayments by the later of 60 days after the date the overpayment was identified, or the date any corresponding cost report is due, if applicable. The Health Reform Laws also amend the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute to state that any items or services resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim under the Federal False Claims Act.  The Health Reform Laws also provide for additional funding to investigate and prosecute health care fraud and abuse. Accordingly, the increased penalties under PPACA for fraud and abuse violations may have a negative impact on our operators and tenants in the event that the government brings an enforcement action or subjects them to penalties.
 
     Further, as recently as February 2, 2011, CMS published final rulemaking to implement the enhanced provider and supplier screening provisions called for in the Health Reform Laws. Under the final rule, beginning March 25, 2011, all enrolling and participating providers and suppliers are assessed an annual administrative fee and are placed in one of three risk levels (limited, moderate, and high) based on an assessment of the individuals or entitys overall risk of fraud, waste and abuse. This rule also allows for the temporary suspension of Medicare payments to providers or suppliers in the event CMS receives credible information that an overpayment, fraud, or willful misrepresentation has occurred. The Health Reform Laws granted the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services significant discretionary authority to suspend, exclude, or impose fines on providers and suppliers based on the agencys determination that such a provider or supplier is high-risk, and, as a result, this final rulemaking has the potential to materially adversely affect our operators and tenants who may be evaluated under the enhanced screening process.
 
     However, in light of the implementation of those PPACA provisions relating to Medicare payment to providers and suppliers participating in ACOs under the Medicare Shared Savings Program, on November 2, 2011, CMS and OIG jointly published the final rule establishing waivers of certain fraud and abuse laws to ACOs.  These waivers include automatic AKS, Stark, and CMP waivers that may be applied in certain situations and that will apply uniformly to each ACO, ACO participant, and ACO provider/supplier. Notably, the final rule states that CMS and OIG intend to closely monitor ACOs through June 2013 to ensure that these waivers are not causing undesirable effects and need to be narrowed to prevent fraud and abuse.
 
     Additionally, provisions of Title VI of PPACA are designed to increase transparency and program integrity by skilled nursing facilities, other nursing facilities and similar providers. Specifically, skilled nursing facilities and other providers and suppliers will be required to institute compliance and ethics programs. Additionally, PPACA makes it easier for consumers to file complaints against nursing homes by mandating that states establish complaint websites. The provisions calling for enhanced transparency will increase the administrative burden and costs on these providers.
 
    
Impact to the Health Care Plans Offered to Our Employees
. The Health Reform Laws affect employers that provide health plans to their employees. The new laws change the tax treatment of the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy and extend dependent coverage for dependents up to age 26, among other changes. We are evaluating our health care plans in light of these changes. These changes may affect our operators and tenants as well.
 
Medicare Program Reimbursement Changes
 
     In recent months, CMS released a number of proposed and final rulemakings that may potentially increase or decrease government reimbursement to our operators and tenants. To the extent that any of these rulemakings decrease government reimbursement to our operators and tenants, our revenue and operations may be indirectly, adversely affected.
 
     On August 1, 2011, CMS issued a final rule updating the long-term acute care hospital prospective payment system for fiscal year 2012. Among other things, the final rule increased payment rates for acute care hospitals by 1% and long-term care hospitals by 1.8%. In the rule, CMS included a negative 2%, rather than the proposed negative 3.15%, documentation and coding adjustment for long-term care hospitals. CMS also released a final rulemaking for the prospective payment system and consolidated billing for skilled nursing facilities for fiscal year 2012 on August 8, 2011, which included the 11.1%, or $3.87 billion, decrease in RUG payments made to skilled nursing facilities previously discussed.   CMS announced that the reasons for this rate reduction were to correct for the unintended spike in payment levels, particularly those associated with higher paying RUGs, and to align reimbursement with cost. As part of these changes, effective October, 1, 2011, all rate categories will be updated for the full market basket; increase of 2.7%, less a 1% productivity adjustment required by Section 3401(b) of the PPACA.
 
     CMS annually adjusts the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule payment rates based on an update formula that includes application of the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR). On November 1, 2011, CMS published the calendar year 2012 Physician Fee Schedule final rule with comment period. Most notably, the final rule calls for a negative 27.4% update for 2012 under the statutory SGR formula. 
In February 2012, Congress passed the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, which blocks the cut through the end of 2012
. 
Also discussed in the final rule are at least two initiatives that could negatively impact the reimbursement levels received by our operators and tenants. CMS is expanding its multiple procedure payment reduction policy to the professional interpretation of advance
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
imaging services to recognize the overlapping activities that go into valuing these services.  In addition, the rule finalizes quality and cost measures that will be used in establishing a new value-based modifier that would adjust physician payments based on whether they are providing higher quality and more efficient care.  The PPACA requires CMS to begin making payment adjustments to certain physicians and physician groups on January 1, 2015, and to apply the modifier to all physicians by January 1, 2017.  The rule finalizes calendar year 2013 as the initial performance year for purposes of adjusting payments in calendar year 2015.
 
     Additionally, on November 1, 2011, CMS published a final rule with comment period for outpatient care hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers. CMS estimates that the cumulative effect of all changes to payment rates for calendar year 2012 will have a positive effect, resulting in a 1.9% estimated increase in Medicare payments to providers paid under the HOPPS. As required by PPACA, the rule also provides for a payment adjustment for designated cancer hospitals, resulting in an expected increase in payments to cancer hospitals by 11.3%, and increases payment rates to ambulatory surgical centers by 1.6%.
 
     Finally, on November 21, 2011, the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, which was created by the Budget Control Act of 2011, concluded its work, and issued a statement that it was not able to make a bipartisan agreement, thus triggering the sequestration process.  The sequestration process will result in spending reductions starting in 2013, including Medicare cuts.  Such cuts could affect government reimbursement to our operators and tenants.
 
Economic Outlook
     Economic fundamentals leading into 2012 have set a generally positive pace with U.S. Gross Domestic Product growth projected to pick up through the coming year. However, there are several important caveats to note as the world economy continues to face headwinds and risks weigh to the downside. Positive outlooks are conditional on fiscal policy in payroll taxes and unemployment insurance benefits and upon the easing of the European debt situation. A repeat of volatility experienced in 2011 is likely in 2012, as perceptions about the strength of the U.S. economy and the Euro zone will vary over time as events unfold.   However, this volatility has led to increased interest in the historically stable returns provided by healthcare real estate.
     As a consequence of this interest, significant debt and equity investment capital was available to our sector in 2011 resulting in a record year of acquisition activity.  We participated in this growth and continue to actively invest and pursue investment opportunities that meet our strategic underwriting criteria.  Our strategy has resulted in robust portfolio growth and strong returns for our shareholders. With further industry consolidation anticipated in 2012, we expect to continue to our success.  We believe the opportunities in which we invest will continue to generate consistent, reliable and growing cash flows for our shareholders, regardless of economic volatility.
 
Business Strategy
     Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, customer and geographic location.
     Substantially all of our revenues and sources of cash flows from operations are derived from operating lease rentals, resident fees and services, and interest earned on outstanding loans receivable. These items represent our primary source of liquidity to fund distributions and are dependent upon our obligors continued ability to make contractual rent and interest payments to us. To the extent that our obligors experience operating difficulties and are unable to generate sufficient cash to make payments to us, there could be a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property and operator/tenant. Our asset management process includes review of monthly financial statements for each property, periodic review of obligor credit, periodic property inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. In monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a proprietary database to collect and analyze property-specific data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research to ascertain industry trends and risks. Through these asset management and research efforts, we are typically able to intervene at an early stage to address payment risk, and in so doing, support both the collectability of revenue and the value of our investment.
     In addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also structure our investments to help mitigate payment risk. Operating leases and loans are normally credit enhanced by guaranties and/or letters of credit. In addition, operating leases are typically structured as master leases and loans are generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.
     For the year ended December 31, 2011, rental income, resident fees and services and interest income represented 65%, 32%, and 3% respectively, of total gross revenues (including revenues from discontinued operations). Substantially all of our operating leases
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
are designed with either fixed or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. Our yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, the average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments.
     Depending upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is sufficient to fund operations, meet debt service obligations (both principal and interest), make dividend distributions and complete construction projects in process.  We also anticipate evaluating opportunities to finance future investments.  New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, internally generated cash and the proceeds from sales of real property. Our investments generate cash from rent and interest receipts and principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent capital for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under the unsecured line of credit arrangement, has historically been provided through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.
     Our primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, resident fees and services, borrowings under the unsecured line of credit arrangement, public and private offerings of debt and equity securities, proceeds from the sales of real property and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including capital expenditures and construction advances), loan advances, property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses.
     Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate returns to our stockholders. It is also possible that loan repayments or sales of real property may occur in the future. To the extent that loan repayments and real property sales exceed new investments, our revenues and cash flows from operations could be adversely affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any loan repayments and real property sales in new investments. To the extent that new investment requirements exceed our available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our unsecured line of credit arrangement. At December 31, 2011, we had $163,482,000 of cash and cash equivalents, $69,620,000 of restricted cash and $1,395,000,000 of available borrowing capacity under our primary unsecured line of credit arrangement.
 
Key Transactions in 2011
     We completed the following key transactions during the year ended December 31, 2011:
        
our Board of Directors increased the annual cash dividend to $2.96 per common share ($0.74 per share quarterly), as compared to $2.835 per common share for 2011, beginning in February 2012.  The dividend declared for the quarter ended December 31, 2011 represents the 163 consecutive quarterly dividend payment;
rd
        
we completed $5,986,262,000 of gross investments and had $351,701,000 of investment payoffs;
        
we completed a public offering of 28,750,000 shares of common stock with net proceeds of $1,358,543,000 in March;
        
we completed a public offering of 14,375,000 shares of 6.5% convertible preferred stock with net proceeds of $696,437,000 in March;
        
we issued $1,400,000,000 of senior unsecured notes due 2016 to 2041 bearing interest rates of 3.625% to 6.5% with net proceeds of $1,381,086,000 in March;
        
we extended our unsecured line of credit arrangement to July 2015 and expanded it to $2,000,000,000 in July 2011;
        
we completed a public offering of 12,650,000 shares of common stock with net proceeds of $606,595,000 in November; and
        
we announced plans to declassify the Board of Directors.
  
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties
     We utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of our business. These indicators are discussed below and relate to operating performance, concentration risk and credit strength. Management uses these key performance indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results, in making operating decisions and for budget planning purposes.
     
Operating Performance
. We believe that net income attributable to common stockholders (NICS) is the most appropriate earnings measure. Other useful supplemental measures of our operating performance include funds from operations (FFO), net operating income from continuing operations (NOI) and same store cash NOI; however, these supplemental measures are not defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). Please refer to the section entitled Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further discussion and reconciliations of FFO and NOI. These earnings measures and their relative per share amounts are widely used by investors and analysts in the valuation, comparison and investment recommendations of companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends of our operating performance measures for the periods presented (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
 
     Credit Strength.
We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. Our leverage ratios include debt to book capitalization and debt to market capitalization. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to service interest and fixed charges (interest, secured debt principal amortization and preferred dividends). We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain compliance with our debt covenants. The coverage ratios are based on adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA) which is discussed in further detail, and reconciled to net income, below in Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors, analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment recommendations and rating of companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends for our credit strength measures for the periods presented:
 
 
     
Concentration Risk
. We evaluate our concentration risk in terms of asset mix, investment mix, customer mix and geographic mix. Concentration risk is a valuable measure in understanding what portion of our investments could be at risk if certain sectors were to experience downturns. Asset mix measures the portion of our investments that are real property. In order to qualify as an equity REIT, at least 75% of our real estate investments must be real property whereby each property, which includes the land, buildings, improvements, intangibles and related rights, is owned by us and leased to a tenant pursuant to a long-term operating lease. Investment mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our various property types. Customer mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our top five customers. Geographic mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our top five states. The following table reflects our recent historical trends of concentration risk by investment balance for the periods presented:
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
 
     We evaluate our key performance indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical trends are indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be achieved and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results are described in more detail in Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors and other sections of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Management regularly monitors economic and other factors to develop strategic and tactical plans designed to improve performance and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and to appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-specific trends. Please refer to Business, Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 for further discussion of these risk factors.
 
Portfolio Update
     
Net operating income
. The primary performance measure for our properties is net operating income from continuing operations (NOI) as discussed below in Non-GAAP Financial Measures. The following tables summarize our NOI and same store cash NOI for the periods indicated (in thousands):
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
 
     
Payment coverage
. Payment coverage of our triple-net customers continues to remain strong. Our overall payment coverage is at 1.91 times. The table below reflects our recent historical trends of portfolio coverage. Coverage data reflects the 12 months ended for the periods presented. Coverage represents the ratio of our customers earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees to contractual rent or interest due us.
 
 
Corporate Governance
     Maintaining investor confidence and trust has become increasingly important in todays business environment. Our Board of Directors and management are strongly committed to policies and procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our corporate governance guidelines provide the framework for our business operations and emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder value while meeting all applicable legal requirements. The Board of Directors adopted and annually reviews its Corporate Governance Guidelines. These guidelines meet the listing standards adopted by the New York Stock Exchange and are available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Sources and Uses of Cash
     Our primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, resident fees and services, borrowings under the unsecured line of credit arrangement, public and private offerings of debt and equity securities, proceeds from the sales of real property and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including capital expenditures and construction advances), loan advances, property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses. These sources and uses of cash are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are discussed in further detail below.
     The following is a summary of our sources and uses of cash flows (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
 
     
Operating Activities
. The change in net cash provided from operating activities is primarily attributable to an increase in net income, excluding gains/losses on sales of properties, depreciation and amortization, transaction costs and debt extinguishment charges. These items are discussed below in Results of Operations.  The following is a summary of our straight-line rent and above/below market lease amortization (dollars in thousands):
 
 
Gross straight-line rental income represents the non-cash difference between contractual cash rent due and the average rent recognized pursuant to U.S. GAAP for leases with fixed rental escalators, net of collectability reserves.  This amount is positive in the first half of a lease term (but declining every year due to annual increases in cash rent due) and is negative in the second half of a lease term.  The fluctuation in cash receipts due to real property sales is attributable to less significant straight-line rent receivable balances on properties sold during the current year. The fluctuation in prepaid rent receipts is primarily due to changes in prepaid rent received at certain construction projects.
Investing Activities
.  The changes in net cash used in investing activities are primarily attributable to net changes in real property and real estate loans receivable.  The following is a summary of our investment and disposition activities (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
 
Capitalization Rates
 
Capitalization rates for acquisitions represent annualized contractual or projected income to be received in cash divided by investment amounts.  Capitalization rates for dispositions represent annualized contractual income that was being received in cash at date of disposition divided by disposition cash proceeds.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, weighted-average capitalization rates for acquisitions and dispositions were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
     The contributions to unconsolidated entities for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily represent $174,692,000 and $21,321,000 of cash invested by us in the joint ventures with Forest City Enterprises and a national medical office building company, respectively.  The distributions by unconsolidated entities for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily represent cash received for return of capital from those same joint ventures.  Please see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.  Changes in restricted cash represent net cash fundings to and disbursements from earnest money deposits and secured debt escrow accounts.
 
     Financing Activities
. The changes in net cash provided from or used in financing activities are primarily attributable to changes related to our long-term debt arrangements, proceeds from the issuance of common and preferred stock and dividend payments.
 
     The changes in our senior unsecured notes are due to (i) the repayment of $3,000 of convertible senior unsecured notes in December 2011; (ii) the issuance of $400,000,000 of 3.625% senior unsecured notes due 2016, $600,000,000 of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2022 and $400,000,000 of 6.50% senior unsecured notes due 2041 in March 2011; (iii) the issuance of $494,403,000 of convertible senior unsecured notes in March and June 2010; (iv) the repurchase of $441,326,000 of convertible senior unsecured notes in March and June 2010; (v) the issuance of $450,000,000 of senior unsecured notes in April and June 2010; (vi) the issuance of $450,000,000 of senior unsecured notes in September 2010; (vii) the issuance of $450,000,000 of senior unsecured notes in November 2010; and (viii) the extinguishment of $183,147,000 of various senior unsecured notes in March and September 2009.  We recognized losses of $25,072,000 and $19,269,000 during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in connection with the aforementioned extinguishments.
 
     During the year ended December 31, 2011, we assumed 55 secured loans totaling $940,855,000 with an average rate of 4.85% secured by 55 properties.  Also during the year ended December 31, 2011, we issued 9 secured loans totaling $114,903,000 with a rate of 5.78%.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, we extinguished $55,317,000 of secured debt with an average rate of 5.95% and recognized a gain of $979,000.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, we extinguished 35 secured debt loans totaling $194,493,000 with a weighted-average interest rate of 6.07% and recognized extinguishment losses of $9,099,000. Also during the year ended December 31, 2010, we issued $81,977,000 of secured debt loans at an average interest rate of 5.10%.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, we extinguished 20 secured debt loans totaling $81,715,000 with a weighted-average interest rate of 7.21% and recognized extinguishment losses of $5,838,000.
     We may repurchase, redeem or refinance convertible and non-convertible senior unsecured notes from time to time, taking advantage of favorable market conditions when available. We may purchase senior notes for cash through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, a tender offer or, in some cases, through the early redemption of such securities pursuant to their terms.   The non-convertible senior unsecured notes are redeemable at our option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (1) the principal amount of the notes (or portion of such notes) being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon up to the redemption date and (2) any make-whole amount due under the terms of the notes in connection with early redemptions.   We cannot redeem the 3.00% convertible senior unsecured notes due 2029 prior to December 1,
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
2014 or the 4.75% convertible senior unsecured notes due 2027 prior to July 15, 2012 unless such redemption is necessary to preserve our status as a REIT.   However, on or after December 1, 2014 or July 15, 2012 (as applicable), we may from time to time at our option redeem those notes, in whole or in part, for cash, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes we redeem, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.  Redemptions and repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors.
     In March 2011, we completed a public offering of 14,375,000 shares of 6.5% convertible preferred stock for net proceeds of $696,437,000.  The following is a summary of our common stock issuances for the years indicated (dollars in thousands, except average price):
 
 
     In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (including 100% of capital gains) to our stockholders. The increase in dividends is primarily attributable to an increase in our common shares outstanding. The following is a summary of our dividend payments (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
     During the year ended December 31, 2010, we entered into a joint venture investment with Forest City Enterprises (NYSE:FCE.A and FCE.B).  The portfolio is 100% leased and includes affiliates of investment grade pharmaceutical and research tenants such as Novartis, Genzyme, Millennium (a subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceuticals), and Brigham and Women's Hospital. Forest City Enterprises self-developed the portfolio and will continue to manage it on behalf of the joint venture. The life science campus is part of a mixed-use project that includes a 210-room hotel, 674 residential units, a grocery store, restaurants and retail.  In connection with
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
this transaction, we invested $174,692,000 of cash which is recorded as an investment in unconsolidated entities on the balance sheet.  Our share of the non-recourse secured debt assumed by the joint venture was approximately $156,729,000 with weighted-average interest rates of 7.1%.  In addition, at December 31, 2011, we had other investments in unconsolidated entities with our ownership ranging from 10% to 50%. Please see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
     We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates, our perception of the future volatility of interest rates and our relative levels of variable rate debt and variable rate investments. Please see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
     At December 31, 2011, we had five outstanding letter of credit obligations totaling $5,515,000 and expiring between 2012 and 2014. Please see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 
Contractual Obligations
     The following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011 (in thousands):
 
 
     At December 31, 2011, we had a $2,000,000,000 unsecured line of credit arrangement with a consortium of 31 banks with an option to upsize the facility by up to an additional $500,000,000 through an accordion feature, allowing for an aggregate commitment of up to $2,500,000,000.  The revolving credit facility is scheduled to expire July 27, 2015. Borrowings under the agreement are subject to interest payable in periods no longer than three months at either the agent banks prime rate of interest or the applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (1.65% at December 31, 2011). The applicable margin is based on certain of our debt ratings and was 1.35% at December 31, 2011. In addition, we pay a facility fee annually to each bank based on the banks commitment amount. The facility fee depends on certain of our debt ratings and was 0.25% at December 31, 2011.  Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement.  At December 31, 2011, we had $ 605,000,000 outstanding under the unsecured line of credit arrangement and $5,000,000 outstanding under an unsecured revolving demand note.  Contractual interest obligations of $35,690,000 are estimated based on the assumption that the balance of $610,000,000 at December 31, 2011 is constant until maturity at interest rates in effect at December 31, 2011.
     We have $4,464,927,000 of senior unsecured notes principal outstanding with fixed annual interest rates ranging from 3.00% to 8.00%, payable semi-annually. Total contractual interest obligations on senior unsecured notes totaled $2,397,250,533 at December 31, 2011. A total of $788,074,000 of our senior unsecured notes are convertible notes that also contain put features.  Please see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
     We have consolidated secured debt with total outstanding principal of $2,108,384,000, collateralized by owned properties, with annual interest rates ranging from 1.22% to 10.00%, payable monthly. The carrying values of the properties securing the debt totaled $4,048,469,000 at December 31, 2011. Total contractual interest obligations on consolidated secured debt totaled $729,000,860 at December 31, 2011. Our share of non-recourse debt associated with unconsolidated entities (as reflected in the contractual obligations table above) is $190,169,000 at December 31, 2011.  Our share of contractual interest obligations on our unconsolidated entities secured debt is $40,131,000 at December 31, 2011.
     At December 31, 2011, we had operating lease obligations of $356,464,000 relating primarily to ground leases at certain of our properties and office space leases.
     Purchase obligations are comprised of unfunded construction commitments and contingent purchase obligations. At December 31,
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
2011, we had outstanding construction financings of $189,502,000 for leased properties and were committed to providing additional financing of approximately $282,899,000 to complete construction. At December 31, 2011, we had contingent purchase obligations totaling $57,470,000. These contingent purchase obligations relate to unfunded capital improvement obligations. Upon funding, amounts due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.
     Other long-term liabilities relate to our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) and certain non-compete agreements. We have a SERP, a non-qualified defined benefit pension plan, which provides certain executive officers with supplemental deferred retirement benefits. The SERP provides an opportunity for participants to receive retirement benefits that cannot be paid under our tax-qualified plans because of the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Benefits are based on compensation and length of service and the SERP is unfunded.  Benefit payments are expected to total $2,375,000 during the next five fiscal years and $3,560,000 thereafter. We use a December 31 measurement date for the SERP. The accrued liability on our balance sheet for the SERP was $5,623,000 and $4,066,000 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.
 
Capital Structure
     As of December 31, 2011, we had total equity of $7,278,647,000 and a total debt balance of $7,156,756,000, which represents a debt to total book capitalization ratio of 50%. Our ratio of debt to market capitalization was 38% at December 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our adjusted interest coverage ratio was 3.02x and our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio was 2.37x. Also, at December 31, 2011, we had $163,482,000 of cash and cash equivalents, $69,620,000 of restricted cash and $1,395,000,000 of available borrowing capacity under our primary unsecured line of credit arrangement.
     Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements. Please refer to the section entitled Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further discussion. None of our debt agreements contain provisions for acceleration which could be triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes are used to determine the fees and interest charged.
     We plan to manage the company to maintain compliance with our debt covenants and with a capital structure consistent with our current profile. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.
     On May 7, 2009, we filed an open-ended automatic or universal shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering an indeterminate amount of future offerings of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and units. As of January 31, 2012, we had an effective registration statement on file in connection with our enhanced dividend reinvestment plan under which we may issue up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock. As of January 31, 2012, 5,876,205 shares of common stock remained available for issuance under this registration statement. We have entered into separate Equity Distribution Agreements with each of UBS Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. relating to the offer and sale from time to time of up to $630,015,000 aggregate amount of our common stock (Equity Shelf Program). As of January 31, 2012, we had $457,112,000 of remaining capacity under the Equity Shelf Program. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate issuing securities under our registration statements to invest in additional properties and to repay borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangement.
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
Results of Operations
     Our primary sources of revenue include rent, resident fees and services, and interest. Our primary expenses include interest expense, depreciation and amortization, property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses. These revenues and expenses are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Income and are discussed in further detail below. The following is a summary of our results of operations (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
     The components of the changes in revenues, expenses and other items are discussed in detail below. The following is a summary of certain items that impact the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011:
         
$12,194,000 ($0.07 per diluted share) of impairment charges;
         
$2,010,000 ($0.01 per diluted share) of provisions for loan losses;
         
$70,224,000 ($0.40 per diluted share) of transaction costs;
         
$1,653,000 ($0.01 per diluted share) of held for sale hospital operating expenses;
         
$979,000 ($0.01 per diluted share) of net gains on extinguishments of debt;
         
$3,774,000 ($0.02 per diluted share) of additional other income related to a lease and loan termination; and
         
$61,160,000 ($0.35 per diluted share) of gains on the sales of real property.
 
     The following is a summary of certain items that impact the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010:
         
$3,853,000 ($0.03 per diluted share) of special stock compensation grants recognized as general and administrative expenses;
         
$34,171,000 ($0.27 per diluted share) of net losses on extinguishments of debt;
         
$947,000 ($0.01 per diluted share) of impairment charges;
         
$29,684,000 ($0.23 per diluted share) of provisions for loan losses;
         
$46,660,000 ($0.36 per diluted share) of transaction costs;
         
$1,753,000 ($0.01 per diluted share) of held for sale hospital operating expenses;
         
$1,000,000 ($0.01 per diluted share) of additional other income related to a lease termination; and
         
$36,115,000 ($0.28 per diluted share) of gains on the sales of real property.
 
     The following is a summary of certain items that impact the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009:
         
$3,909,000 ($0.03 per diluted share) of non-recurring general and administrative expenses;
         
$25,107,000 ($0.22 per diluted share) of net losses on extinguishments of debt;
         
$25,223,000 ($0.22 per diluted share) of impairment charges;
         
$23,261,000 ($0.20 per diluted share) of provisions for loan losses;
         
$8,059,000 ($0.07 per diluted share) of additional other income related to a lease termination;
         
$2,400,000 ($0.02 per diluted share) of prepayment fees; and
         
$43,394,000 ($0.38 per diluted share) of gains on the sales of real property.
 
     The increase in fully diluted average common shares outstanding is primarily the result of public common stock offerings and common stock issuances pursuant to our DRIP and equity shelf program (ESP). The following table represents the changes in outstanding common stock for the period from January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2011 (in thousands):
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
 
     We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three business segments  seniors housing triple-net, seniors housing operating and medical facilities. Please see Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
 
Seniors Housing Triple-net
  
    The following is a summary of our results of operations for the seniors housing triple-net segment (dollars in thousands):
 
 
The increase in rental income is primarily attributable to the acquisitions of new properties and the conversion of newly constructed seniors housing triple-net properties from which we receive rent. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenants properties.  These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.  If gross operating revenues at our facilities and/or the Consumer Price Index do not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to increase.  Sales of real property would offset revenue increases and, to the extent that they exceed new acquisitions, could result in decreased revenues.  Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income.  For the three months ended December 31, 2011, we had no lease renewals but we had 12 leases with rental rate increasers ranging from 0.25% to 0.41% in our seniors housing triple-net portfolio.
Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 represents $15,306,000, $15,111,000 and $12,622,000, respectively, of secured debt interest expense offset by interest allocated to discontinued operations.  The change in secured debt
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
interest expense is due to the net effect and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations.  The following is a summary of our seniors housing triple-net property secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):
 
 
Depreciation and amortization increased primarily as a result of new property acquisitions and the conversions of newly constructed investment properties. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change accordingly.
Transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily represent costs incurred with the Genesis transaction (including due diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services, and termination of pre-existing relationships computed based on the fair value of the assets acquired), lease termination fees and costs incurred in connection with other new property acquisitions.
At September 30, 2012, we had 31 seniors housing triple-net facilities that satisfied the requirements for held for sale treatment and such properties were properly recorded at the lesser of their estimated fair values less costs to sell or carrying values. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we sold 39 seniors housing triple-net properties for net gains of $59,108,000 as compared to 31 properties for net gains of $36,274,000 in 2010 and 21 properties for net gains of $32,084,000 in 2009.  At December 31, 2011, we had one seniors housing triple-net facility that satisfied the requirements for held for sale treatment.  We recognized an impairment loss of $1,102,000 on certain facilities as the fair value less estimated costs to sell exceeded our carrying value. During the nine months ended September 30, 2012, we sold 29 seniors housing triple-net facilities for net gains of $57,711,000.  The following illustrates the reclassification impact as a result of classifying the properties sold prior to or held for sale at September 30, 2012 as discontinued operations for the periods presented.  Please refer to Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion.
 
 
     We recorded $23,261,000 of provision for loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2009. This amount includes the write-off of loans totaling $25,578,000 primarily relating to certain early stage seniors housing operators offset by a net reduction in the allowance for loan losses of $2,457,000.  We recorded $29,684,000 of provision for loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2010. This amount includes the write-off of loans totaling $33,591,000 primarily related to certain early stage seniors housing and CCRC development projects.  This was offset by a net reduction of the allowance balance by $3,907,000.  We did not record any provision for loan loss or have any loan write-offs for seniors housing triple-net investments during the year ended December 31, 2011. The provision for loan losses is related to our critical accounting estimate for the allowance for loan losses and is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies.
 
     During the year ended December 31, 2011 a portion of our seniors housing triple-net properties were formed through partnership interests. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2011 represents our partners share of net income (loss) relating to those properties. In connection with a seniors housing triple-net partnership, we also acquired a minority interest in a separate unconsolidated entity. This investment is reflected as an investment in unconsolidated entities on our consolidated balance sheet. Accordingly, our proportionate share of net income (loss) is reflected as income (loss) from unconsolidated entities on our consolidated income statement.
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
Seniors Housing Operating
As discussed in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, we completed the acquisition of three additional seniors housing operating partnerships and added certain properties to existing partnerships during the year ended December 31, 2011. The results of operations for these partnerships have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the dates of acquisition. The seniors housing operating partnerships were formed using the structure authorized by the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (RIDEA).  When considering new partnerships utilizing the RIDEA structure, we look for opportunities with best-in-class operators with a strong seasoned leadership team, high-quality real estate in attractive markets, growth potential above the standard rent escalators in our triple-net lease seniors housing portfolio, and alignment of economic interests with our operating partner.  Our seniors housing operating partnerships offer us the opportunity for external growth because we have the right to fund future seniors housing investment opportunities sourced by our operating partners. There were no seniors housing operating segment investments prior to September 1, 2010.  The following is a summary of our seniors housing operating results of operations (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     The fluctuation in revenues, expenses and other items is primarily due to the timing of transactions.  Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily represent four months of activity for our original Merrill Gardens partnership.  Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2011 represent a full year of activity for the original Merrill Gardens partnership plus amounts related to all subsequent RIDEA partnerships.  Please refer to Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.  The following is a summary of our seniors housing operating property secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
Medical Facilities
 
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the medical facilities segment (dollars in thousands):
 
 
The increase in rental income is primarily attributable to the acquisitions of new properties and the construction conversions of medical facilities from which we receive rent. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index.  These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.  If the Consumer Price Index does not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to increase.  Sales of real property would offset revenue increases and, to the extent that they exceed new acquisitions, could result in decreased revenues.  Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income.  For the three months ended December 31, 2011, our consolidated medical office building portfolio signed 55,562 square feet of new leases and 103,954 square feet of renewals.  The weighted average term of these leases was five years, with a rate of $23.06 per square foot and tenant improvement and lease commission costs of $10.53 per square foot.  Substantially all of these leases during the referenced quarter contain an annual fixed or contingent escalation rent structure ranging from the change in
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
CPI to 3%.  For the three months ended December 31, 2011, we had no lease renewals but we had two leases with rental rate increasers ranging from 0.25% to 0.50% in our hospital portfolio.
Interest income decreased from the prior period primarily due to a decline in outstanding balances for medical facility real estate loans.  Other income is attributable to third party management fee income.
Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 represents $31,467,000, $24,926,000 and $20,584,000, respectively, of secured debt interest expense offset by interest allocated to discontinued operations.  The change in secured debt interest expense is primarily due to the net effect and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations.  The following is a summary of our medical facilities secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):
 
 
The increase in property operating expenses and depreciation and amortization is primarily attributable to acquisitions and construction conversions of new medical facilities for which we incur certain property operating expenses offset by property operating expenses associated with discontinued operations.
Transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2011 represent costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of new properties.  Income tax expense is primarily related to third party management fee income.
We recorded $2,010,000 of provision for loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2011.  This amount includes the write-off of a loan totaling $3,286,000 primarily relating to a medical facility loan offset by a net reduction in the allowance for loan loss $1,276,000, resulting in an allowance for loan losses of $0 at December 31, 2011.
Income from unconsolidated entities for the year ended December 30, 2010 and 2011 includes our share of net income related to our joint venture investment with Forest City Enterprises.  Income from unconsolidated entities for the year ended December 31, 2011 also includes our share of net income related to certain unconsolidated property investments related to our strategic joint venture relationship with a national medical office building company.  See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
During the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold 15 medical facilities for net gains of $11,310,000.  At December 31, 2009, we had eight medical facilities held for sale and recorded an impairment charge of $25,223,000 to reduce the properties to their estimated fair values less costs to sell.  In determining the fair value of the held for sale properties, we used a combination of third party appraisals based on market comparable transactions, other market listings and asset quality as well as management calculations based on projected operating income and published capitalization rates.  During the three months ended September 30, 2010, we recorded an impairment charge of $947,000 related to two of the held for sale medical facilities to adjust the carrying values to estimated fair values less costs to sell based on current sales price expectations.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, we sold seven of the held for sale medical facilities for net losses of $159,000.  At December 31, 2010, we had one medical facility held for sale. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we sold three medical facilities for net gains of $2,052,000.  At December
31, 2011
we had five medical facilities held for sale and we recorded an impairment charge of $6,791,000 to reduce the carrying values of certain properties to their estimated fair values less costs to sell.  During the nine months ended September 30, 2012, we sold thirteen medical facilities for net losses of $11,664,000. T
he following illustrates the reclassification impact as a result of classifying medical facilities sold prior to or held for sale at September 30, 2012 as discontinued operations for the periods presented.  Please refer to Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion.
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
     Net income attributable to non-controlling interests primarily relates to certain properties that are consolidated in our operating results but where we have less than a 100% ownership interest.
     Non-Segment/Corporate
     The following is a summary of our results of operations for the non-segment/corporate activities (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     Other income primarily represents income from non-real estate activities such as interest earned on temporary investments of cash reserves.
     The following is a summary of our non-segment/corporate interest expense (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
 
The change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to the net effect of issuances and extinguishments.  The following is a summary of our senior unsecured note principal activity (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used to finance the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balances outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized.  Please see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our interest rate swap agreements and their impact on interest expense.  Loan expense represents the amortization of deferred loan costs incurred in connection with the issuance and amendments of debt. Loan expense is consistent for all years presented.  During the three months ended September 30, 2009, we completed a $10,750,000 first mortgage loan secured by a commercial real estate campus.  The 10-year debt has a fixed interest rate of 6.37%.  The change in interest expense on the unsecured line of credit arrangements is due primarily to the net effect and timing of draws, paydowns and variable interest rate changes.  The following is a summary of our unsecured line of credit arrangements (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     General and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues (including revenues from discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 5.37%, 7.78% and 8.33%, respectively.  The increase in general and administrative expenses is primarily related to costs associated with our initiatives to attract and retain appropriate personnel to achieve our business objectives.  The decline in percent of revenue is primarily related to the increasing revenue base as a result of our seniors housing operating partnerships.
     The change in preferred dividends is primarily attributable to preferred stock conversions into common stock. The following is a
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
summary of our preferred stock activity (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     We believe that net income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, we consider FFO to be a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and impairment of depreciable assets, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated entities.
     Net operating income from continuing operations (NOI) is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property level operating expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, impairments and interest expense. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our seniors housing operating and medical facility properties.  These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance.  General and administrative expenses represent costs unrelated to property operations or transaction costs.  These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets.  Same store cash NOI (SSCNOI) is used to evaluate the cash-based operating performance of our properties under a consistent population which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio.  As used herein, same store is defined as those properties in the portfolio for the full three year reporting period.   Properties acquired, developed or classified in discontinued operations during that period are excluded from the same store amounts.  We believe NOI and SSCNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSCNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
     EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We believe that EBITDA, along with net income and cash flow provided from operating activities, is an important supplemental measure because it provides additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. We primarily utilize EBITDA to measure our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest, secured debt principal amortization and preferred dividends. 
     A covenant in our $2.0 billion unsecured line of credit arrangement contains a financial ratio based on a definition of EBITDA that is specific to that agreement. Failure to satisfy this covenant could result in an event of default that could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. Due to the materiality of this debt agreement and the financial covenant, we have disclosed Adjusted EBITDA, which represents EBITDA as defined above and adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses and gain/loss on extinguishment of debt. We use Adjusted EBITDA to measure our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges on a trailing twelve months basis. Fixed charges include total interest (excluding capitalized interest and non-cash interest expenses), secured debt principal amortization and preferred dividends. Effective July 27, 2011, our covenant requires an adjusted fixed charge ratio of at least 1.50 times.
     Other than Adjusted EBITDA, our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
management. Adjusted EBITDA is used solely to determine our compliance with a financial covenant of our line of credit arrangement and is not being presented for use by investors for any other purpose. None of our supplemental measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies.
 
     The table below reflects the reconciliation of FFO to net income attributable to common stockholders, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. The provisions for depreciation and amortization include provisions for depreciation and amortization from discontinued operations. Noncontrolling interest amounts represent the noncontrolling interests share of transaction costs and depreciation and amortization.  Unconsolidated entity amounts represent our share of unconsolidated entities depreciation and amortization.  Amounts are in thousands except for per share data.
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
     The table below reflects the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Interest expense and the provisions for depreciation and amortization include discontinued operations. Dollars are in thousands.
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
     The following tables reflect the reconciliation of net operating income from continuing operations and SSCNOI to net income attributable to common stockholders, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented.  Amounts are in thousands.
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
Critical Accounting Policies
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions.  Management considers accounting estimates or assumptions critical if:
        
the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and
        
the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material.
Management has discussed the development and selection of its critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented below relating to them.  Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are appropriate and are not reasonably likely to change in the future.  However, since these estimates require assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, they bear the risk of change.  If actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.  Please refer to Note 1 of our audited consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact us. There were no material changes to these policies in 2011.
The following table presents information about our critical accounting policies, as well as the material assumptions used to develop each estimate:
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
 
Impact of Inflation
 
During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation rate. Additionally, our earnings are primarily long-term investments with fixed rates of return. These investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured notes and borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangement. During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest rates, our ability to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs. Presuming the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not increase significantly, we believe that inflation will not impact the availability of equity and debt financing for us.
 
 
 
  
Item 8.
  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Health Care REIT, Inc.
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Health Care REIT, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in Item 9.01 of this Form 8-K. These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedules based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Health Care REIT, Inc. at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Health Care REIT, Inc.s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 17, 2012 (not included herein) expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
                                    /s/  
Ernst & Young
LLP
 
Toledo, Ohio
February 17, 2012,
except for notes 3, 5, and 17,
as to which the date is November 7, 2012
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
* Amounts may not sum due to rounding
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
(1)
    
Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
 
 
 
1. Business
 
     Health Care REIT, Inc., an S&P 500 company with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is an equity real estate investment trust (REIT) that invests in seniors housing and health care real estate. Our full service platform also offers property management and development services to our customers. As of December 31, 2011, our diversified portfolio consisted of 937 properties in 46 states. Founded in 1970, we were the first real estate investment trust to invest exclusively in health care facilities.
 
2. Accounting Policies and Related Matters
Principles of Consolidation
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
     At inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting rights (variable interest entities or VIEs) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A variable interest entity is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity's activities without additional subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary.  ASC 810,
Consolidations
, requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated on a continuous basis. This evaluation is based on an enterprises ability to direct and influence the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact that entitys economic performance.
     For investments in joint ventures, we evaluate the type of rights held by the limited partner(s), which may preclude consolidation in circumstances in which the sole general partner would otherwise consolidate the limited partnership. The assessment of limited partners' rights and their impact on the presumption of control over a limited partnership by the sole general partner should be made when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, (ii) the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership in the limited partnership, or (iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited liability companies.
Use of Estimates
     The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Revenue Recognition
     Revenue is recorded in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires that revenue be recognized after four basic criteria are met. These four criteria include persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and determinable income and reasonably assured collectability. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectability risk. Substantially all of our operating leases contain either fixed or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.  Leases in our medical office building portfolio typically include some form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant.  Certain payments made to operators are treated as lease incentives and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the lease term.  We recognize resident fees and services, other than move in fees, monthly as services are provided.  Move in fees and related costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease agreement.  Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days notice.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
     Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Restricted Cash
     Restricted cash primarily consists of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments for real estate taxes, insurance, tenant and capital improvements and amounts held in escrow relating to acquisitions we are entitled to receive over a period of time as outlined in the escrow agreement.
 
 
 
Deferred Loan Expenses
     Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection with the issuance, assumption and amendments of debt arrangements. We amortize these costs over the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest method.
Investments in Unconsolidated Entities
     Investments in less than majority owned entities where our interests represent a general partnership interest but substantive participating rights or substantive kick-out rights have been granted to the limited partners, or where our interests do not represent the general partnership interest and we do not control the major operating and financial policies of the entity, are reported under the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method of accounting, our share of the investees earnings or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. To the extent that our cost basis is different from the basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally amortized over the lives of the related assets and liabilities, and such amortization is included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity.  The initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the amount paid to purchase the entity interest or the estimated fair value of the assets prior to the sale of interests in the entity. Where we do not have the ability to exercise influence over the company, the investment is accounted for under the cost method.  These equity investments represented a minimal ownership interest in these companies.  We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests
     Certain noncontrolling interests were redeemable at fair value at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Accordingly, we record the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interests at the greater of (i) the initial carrying amount, increased or decreased for the noncontrolling interests share of net income or loss and its share of other comprehensive income or loss and dividends or (ii) the redemption value.  In accordance with ASC 810, the redeemable noncontrolling interests were classified outside of permanent equity, as a mezzanine item, in the balance sheet.
Real Property Owned
     Real property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of construction period interest. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.  Property acquisitions are accounted for as business combinations where we measure the assets acquired, liabilities (including assumed debt and contingencies) and any noncontrolling interests at their fair values on the acquisition date.  The cost of real property acquired, which represents substantially all of the purchase price, is allocated to net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their respective fair values. These properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and 5 to 15 years for improvements. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings and improvements.  We consider costs incurred in conjunction with re-leasing properties, including tenant improvements and lease commissions, to represent the acquisition of productive assets and, accordingly, such costs are reflected as investment activities in our statement of cash flows.
     The remaining purchase price is allocated among identifiable intangible assets primarily consisting of the above or below market component of in-place leases and the value of in-place leases. The value allocable to the above or below market component of the acquired in-place lease is determined based upon the present value (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the acquired leases) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining term, and (ii) managements estimate of the amounts that would be paid using fair market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated to above market leases are included in acquired lease intangibles and below market leases are included in other liabilities in the balance sheet and are amortized to rental income over the remaining terms of the respective leases.
     The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values and customer relationship values based on managements evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenants lease and the Companys overall relationship with that respective tenant. Characteristics considered by management in allocating these values include the nature and extent of the Companys existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenants credit quality and expectations of lease renewals, among other factors.
     The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to determine if facts and circumstances suggest that the assets may be impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider external factors relating to each asset and the existence of a master lease which may link the cash flows of an individual asset to a larger portfolio of assets leased to the same tenant. If these factors and the projected undiscounted cash flows of the asset over the remaining depreciation period indicate that the asset will not be recoverable, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair market value. 
In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and
 
 
 
health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.
Capitalization of Construction Period Interest
     We capitalize interest costs associated with funds used to finance the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest which approximates our cost of financing. We capitalized interest costs of $13,164,000, $20,792,000, and $41,170,000 during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to construction of real property owned by us. Our interest expense reflected in the consolidated statements of income has been reduced by the amounts capitalized.
Gain on Sale of Assets
     We recognize sales of assets only upon the closing of the transaction with the purchaser. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as deposits and classified as other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Gains on assets sold are recognized using the full accrual method upon closing when (i) the collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured, (ii) we are not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale to earn the profit, (iii) we have received adequate initial investment from the purchaser and (iv) other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. Gains may be deferred in whole or in part until the sales satisfy the requirements of gain recognition on sales of real estate.
Real Estate Loans Receivable
     Real estate loans receivable consist of mortgage loans and other real estate loans. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectability risks. The loans are primarily collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership interest in, the related properties, corporate guaranties and/or personal guaranties.
Allowance for Losses on Loans Receivable
     The allowance for losses on loans receivable is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. We evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of the underlying collateral. If such factors indicate that there is greater risk of loan charge-offs, additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the contractual terms of the original loan agreement. Consistent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. At December 31, 2011, we had loans with outstanding balances of $6,244,000 on non-accrual status ($9,691,000 at December 31, 2010). To the extent circumstances improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we will return these loans to full accrual status. While a loan is on non-accrual status, any cash receipts are applied against the outstanding principal balance.
Goodwill
    We account for goodwill in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is tested for impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds the reporting units fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount of that goodwill.  We did not have any goodwill impairments for the years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010.
 
Fair Value of Derivative Instruments
     The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair values for our derivatives are estimated by utilizing pricing models that consider forward yield curves and discount rates. Such amounts and the recognition of such amounts are subject to significant estimates that may change in the future. See Note 11 for additional information.
Federal Income Tax
     No provision has been made for federal income taxes since we have elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and we believe that we have met the requirements for qualification as such for each taxable year. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local income taxes. See Note 18 for additional information.
Earnings Per Share
 
 
 
     Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the period adjusted for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings per share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that the number of shares is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.
New Accounting Standards
     In April 2011, FASB issued ASU No. 2011-02, A Creditors Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring. It provided additional guidance to assist creditors in determining whether a restructuring of a receivable meets the criteria to be considered a troubled debt restructuring. The amendments in this ASU are effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after June 15, 2011, and are to be applied retrospectively to the beginning of the annual period of adoption. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
     In September 2011, FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Testing for Goodwill Impairment. It allows companies the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.  Companies would then only proceed to the existing two step impairment test if, after assessing the totality of the events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.  The ASU is effective for annual and interim goodwill tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 with early adoption permitted.  We have early adopted this ASU and applied it to our annual goodwill assessment performed on October 1, 2011.
     In June 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05, Statement of Comprehensive Income (ASU 2011-05), which requires entities to present net income and other comprehensive income in either a single continuous statement or in two separate, but consecutive, statements of net income and other comprehensive income.  ASU 2011-05 will only impact the companys financial presentation as the company currently presents items of other comprehensive income in the statement of changes in equity.  ASU 2011-05 will be effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2012.
Reclassifications
     Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
 
3. Real Property Acquisitions and Development
 
Genesis Acquisition
 
     On April 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the real estate assets (147 properties) of privately-owned Genesis HealthCare Corporation.  The total purchase price of approximately $2,483,398,000 is comprised of $2,400,000,000 of cash consideration, the fair value of capital lease obligations assumed totaling approximately $75,144,000 and approximately $8,254,000 relating to uncertain tax positions that were assumed in the transaction (see Note 18 for further discussion on such tax positions and the related indemnification received).  The total purchase price has been allocated on a preliminary basis in the amounts of $144,091,000 to land and land improvements, $2,331,053,000 to buildings and improvements and $8,254,000 to receivables and other assets.  We funded the cash consideration and other associated costs of the acquisition primarily through the proceeds of the offerings of common stock, preferred stock and senior unsecured notes completed in March 2011.  Effective April 1, 2011, we began leasing the acquired facilities to Genesis pursuant to a master lease. In addition to rent, the triple-net master lease requires Genesis to pay all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all obligations under the ground leases. All obligations under the master lease have been guaranteed by FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC, which was spun-off by Genesis prior to closing the acquisition. The initial term is fifteen years. Genesis has one option to renew for an additional term of fifteen years. The master lease provides that the base rent for the first year is $198,000,000 and will increase at least 1.75% but no more than 3.50% (subject to CPI changes) for each of the years two through six during the initial term and at least 1.50% but no more than 3.00% per year thereafter (subject to CPI changes).  We are recognizing rental income based on the minimum rent escalators during the initial term.  These properties are reported in our seniors housing triple-net segment.
 
     The following unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations have been prepared as if the Genesis acquisition had occurred as of January 1, 2010 based on the preliminary purchase price allocations discussed above.  Amounts are in thousands, except per share data:
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Medical Office Partnership
     On December 31, 2010, we formed a strategic partnership with a national medical office building company (MOBJV) whereby the partnership invested in 17 medical office properties.  We own a controlling interest in 11 properties and consolidate them.  Consolidation is based on a combination of ownership interest and control of operational decision-making authority.  We do not own a controlling interest in six properties and account for them under the equity method.  Our investment in the strategic partnership provides us access to health systems and includes development and property management resources.  The results of operations for this partnership have been included in our consolidated results of operations for 2011 and 2010 and are a component of our medical facilities segment.
     In conjunction with the formation of the partnership, we contributed $225,173,000 of cash, convertible preferred stock valued at $16,667,000, options valued at $2,721,000 and a note payable of $8,333,000 with an interest rate of 6%.  MOBJV contributed the properties to the partnership and the secured debt relating to these properties in exchange for their ownership interest in the partnership.  The partnership contains certain contingent consideration arrangements ranging from $0 to $35,008,000.  Amounts to be paid are contingent upon certain occupancy and development project performance thresholds.  Of this amount, we recognized $29,439,000 as an estimate of additional purchase consideration based on the probability amounts will be paid by the expiration date of the commitments.  Of the amount recognized, $12,500,000 is required to be settled in the Companys common stock upon the achievement of certain performance thresholds.  The total purchase price for the assets acquired by the partnership has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based upon their respective fair values in accordance with the Companys accounting policies. Goodwill represents the estimated fair value of the future development pipeline expected to be generated. Cash flows from this future pipeline are expected to come from development activities and the ability to perform the management functions at the assets after the properties are developed.  The noncontrolling interest relating to the properties is also reflected at estimated fair value.  The weighted average useful life of the acquired intangibles was 26.2 years.  The following table presents the final allocation of the purchase price to assets and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Seniors Housing Operating Partnerships
    Under the provisions of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (RIDEA), for taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008, we may lease qualified health care properties on an arms-length basis to our taxable REIT subsidiary (TRS) if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (EIK). A qualified health care property includes real property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients. The qualified health care properties are operated by an EIK under a management agreement.  The lease agreement required under RIDEA between us and our TRS is eliminated for accounting purposes in consolidation.
     During 2010, we entered into two partnerships that were structured under RIDEA, and during 2011, we entered into three additional partnerships that were structured under RIDEA and added certain properties to existing RIDEA structured investments. Resident level rents and related operating expenses for these facilities are reported in the consolidated financial statements and are subject to federal taxes as the operations of such facilities are included in our TRS.  The results of all such partnerships and acquisitions have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the acquisition date and are a component of our senior housing operating segment.  Consolidation of all such partnerships is based on a combination of ownership interest and control of operational decision-making authority.  The weighted average useful life of the acquired intangibles was 2.4 years at December 31, 2011.
Merrill Gardens Partnership
     During the three months ended September 30, 2010, we completed the formation of our partnership with Merrill Gardens LLC to own and operate a portfolio of 38 combination seniors housing and care communities located primarily in West Coast markets. We own an 80% partnership interest and Merrill Gardens owns the remaining 20% interest and continues to manage the communities.  The partnership owns and operates 13 communities previously owned by us and 25 communities previously owned by Merrill Gardens. 
     In conjunction with the formation of the partnership, we contributed $254,885,000 of cash and the 13 properties previously owned by us, and the partnership assumed the secured debt relating to these properties.  Merrill Gardens contributed the remaining 25 properties to the partnership and the secured debt relating to these properties in exchange for their 20% interest in the partnership.  The 13 properties are recorded at their historical carrying values and the noncontrolling interest was established based on such values.  The difference between the fair value of the consideration received relating to these properties and the historical allocation of the 20% noncontrolling interest was recorded in capital in excess of par value.  During December 2011, the partnership acquired nine new communities previously owned by Merrill Gardens.   In conjunction with the transaction, we contributed $163,064,000 of cash in exchange for our 80% interest and  Merrill Gardens contributed the nine communities and the secured debt relating to these properties in exchange for their 20% interest.  The total purchase price for the communities acquired has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based upon their respective fair values in accordance with our accounting policies.
Benchmark Partnership
     During March 2011, we completed the formation of our partnership with Benchmark Senior Living to own and operate a portfolio of 34 seniors housing communities located in New England. We own a 95% partnership interest and Benchmark owns the remaining 5% interest and continues to manage the communities. The 34 communities included in the partnership were previously owned by The GPT Group and Benchmark.  In conjunction with the formation of the partnership, we contributed $383,356,000 of cash. Benchmark contributed its interests in the 34 properties to the partnership and the secured debt relating to these properties in exchange for its 5% interest in the partnership. The total purchase price for the communities acquired has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities as well as the noncontrolling interests based upon their respective fair values in accordance with our accounting policies.
Other Partnerships
     During 2010 and 2011, in addition to the investments above, we invested through similar partnerships structured under RIDEA in nine and 21 properties, respectively.  Our ownership position in these partnerships ranges from 90% to 95% and all are consolidated by us in the financial statements.
     The following table presents the aggregated final purchase price allocations of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed for all seniors housing operating partnership transactions for the periods presented (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Real Property Investment Activity
     The following is a summary of our real property investment activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
 
 
     The following is a summary of the construction projects that were placed into service and began generating revenues during the periods presented:
 
 
 
 
 
Transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily represent costs incurred with the Genesis acquisition and seniors housing operating partnerships and medical facilities purchases (including due diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services, and termination of pre-existing relationships computed based on the fair value of the assets acquired), lease termination fees and costs incurred in connection with the new property acquisitions.
 
At December 31, 2011, future minimum lease payments receivable under operating leases (excluding properties in our seniors housing operating partnerships and excluding any operating expense reimbursements) are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
4. Real Estate Intangibles
 
     The following is a summary of our real estate intangibles, excluding those classified as held for sale, as of the dates indicated (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     
The following is a summary of real estate intangible amortization for the periods presented (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
     The future estimated aggregate amortization of intangible assets and liabilities is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 
 
5. Dispositions, Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
During the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold 36 properties for net gains of $43,394,000.  At December 31, 2009, we had two skilled nursing facilities and eight medical facilities held for sale and recorded an impairment charge of $25,223,000 to reduce the medical office buildings to their estimated fair values less costs to sell.  In determining the fair value of the held for sale properties, we used a combination of third party appraisals based on market comparable transactions, other market listings and asset quality as well as management calculations based on projected operating income and published capitalization rates.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, we sold 38 properties, including seven of the held for sale medical facilities, for net gains of $36,115,000.  At December 31, 2010, we had one medical facility and 16 seniors housing facilities that satisfied the requirements for held for sale treatment and such properties were properly recorded at the lesser of their estimated fair values less costs to sell or carrying values. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded an impairment charge of $947,000 related to two of the held for sale medical facilities to adjust the carrying values to estimated fair values less costs to sell based on current sales price expectations.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, we sold 42 properties for net gains of $61,160,000.  At December 31, 2011, we had five medical facilities and one seniors housing triple-net facility that satisfied the requirements for held for sale treatment and such properties were properly recorded at the lesser of their estimated fair values less costs to sell or carrying values. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded an impairment charge of $12,194,000 related to certain held for sale properties to adjust the carrying values to estimated fair values less costs to sell based on current sales price expectations.  During the nine months ended September 30, 2012, we sold 42 properties for net gains of $46,046,000.  At September 30, 2012, we had 31 seniors housing triple-net facilities that satisfied the requirements for held for sale treatment and such properties were properly recorded at the lesser of their estimated fair values less costs to sell or carrying values. The following is a summary of our real property disposition activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
 
 
We have reclassified the income and expenses attributable to all properties sold prior to or held for sale at September 30, 2012 to discontinued operations.  Expenses include an allocation of interest expense based on property carrying values and our weighted average
 
 
 
cost of debt.  The following illustrates the reclassification impact as a result of classifying properties as discontinued operations for the periods presented (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
6. Real Estate Loans Receivable
     The following is a summary of our real estate loans receivable (in thousands):
 
 
     The following is a summary of our real estate loan activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
     The following is a summary of the allowance for losses on loans receivable for the periods presented (in thousands):
 
 
As a result of our quarterly evaluations, we recorded $2,010,000 of provision for loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2011. This amount includes the write-off of a loan in the amount of $3,286,000 related to a hospital in Texas.  This was offset by a net reduction of the allowance balance by $1,276,000, resulting in an allowance for loan losses of $0 relating to real estate loans with outstanding balances of $6,244,000, all of which were on non-accrual status at December 31, 2011.
 
The following is a summary of our loan impairments (in thousands):
 
 
7. Investments in Unconsolidated Entities
     During the six months ended June 30, 2010, we entered into a joint venture investment with Forest City Enterprises (NYSE:FCE.A and FCE.B).  We acquired a 49% interest in a seven-building life science campus located in University Park in Cambridge, MA, which is immediately adjacent to the campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. On February 22, 2010, six buildings were purchased and the seventh was purchased on June 30, 2010.  The portfolio is 100% leased.  In connection with these transactions, we invested $174,692,000 of cash which is recorded as an investment in unconsolidated entities on the balance sheet.  Our share of the non-recourse secured debt assumed by the joint venture was approximately $156,729,000 with weighted-average interest rates of 7.1%.  The results of operations for these properties have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition by the joint venture and are reflected in our income statement as income from unconsolidated entities.  The aggregate remaining unamortized basis difference of our investment in this joint venture of $6,379,000 at December 31, 2011 is primarily attributable to real estate and related intangible assets and will be amortized over the life of the related properties and included in the reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities.  In addition, at December 31, 2011, we had other investments in unconsolidated entities with our ownership ranging from 10% to 50%.
 
 
 
8. Customer Concentration
     The following table summarizes certain information about our customer concentration as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands):
 
_____________________
(1)
    
Merrill Gardens and Benchmark are in our seniors housing operating segment whereas the other top five customers are in our seniors housing triple-net segment.
(2)
    
Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities.  Please see Note 7 for additional information.
(3)
    
Investments with our top five customers comprised 32% of total investments at December 31, 2010.
  
9. Borrowings Under Line of Credit Arrangement and Related Items
     At December 31, 2011, we had a $2,000,000,000 unsecured line of credit arrangement with a consortium of 31 banks with an option to upsize the facility by up to an additional $500,000,000 through an accordion feature, allowing for an aggregate commitment of up to $2,500,000,000.  The revolving credit facility is scheduled to expire July 27, 2015.  Borrowings under the agreement are subject to interest payable in periods no longer than three months at either the agent banks prime rate of interest or the applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (1.65% at December 31, 2011). The applicable margin is based on certain of our debt ratings and was 1.35% at December 31, 2011. In addition, we pay a facility fee annually to each bank based on the banks commitment amount. The facility fee depends on certain of our debt ratings and was 0.25% at December 31, 2011.  Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement.  In addition, at December 31, 2011, we had a $5,000,000 unsecured revolving demand note outstanding and bearing interest at 1.34%.
     The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the unsecured line of credit arrangements for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 
 
10. Senior Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt
     We have $4,434,107,000 of senior unsecured notes with annual stated interest rates ranging from 3.00% to 8.00%. The carrying amounts of the senior unsecured notes represent the par value of $4,464,927,000 adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts and other basis adjustments related to hedging the debt with derivative instruments. See Note 11 for further discussion regarding derivative instruments.
     During the three months ended December 31, 2006, we issued $345,000,000 of 4.75% senior unsecured convertible notes due December 2026, generating net proceeds of $337,517,000. The notes are convertible, in certain circumstances, into cash and, if applicable, shares of common stock at an initial conversion rate of 20.8833 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which represents an initial conversion price of $47.89 per share. In general, upon conversion, the holder of each note would receive, in respect of the conversion value of such note, cash up to the principal amount of such note and common stock for the notes conversion value in excess of such principal amount. In addition, on each of December 1, 2011, December 1, 2016 and December 1, 2021, holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. During the three months ended March 31, 2009, we extinguished $5,000,000 of these notes and recognized a gain of $446,000.  During the six months ended June 30, 2010, we extinguished $214,412,000 of these notes, recognized a loss of $8,837,000 and paid $18,552,000 to reacquire the equity component of convertible
 
 
 
debt.  During the three months ended December 31, 2011, we purchased $3,000 of these notes from holders.  As of December 31, 2011, we had $125,585,000 of these notes outstanding.
In July 2007, we issued $400,000,000 of 4.75% senior unsecured convertible notes due July 2027, generating net proceeds of $388,943,000. The notes are convertible, in certain circumstances, into cash and, if applicable, shares of our common stock at an initial conversion rate of 20.0000 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which represents an initial conversion price of $50.00 per share. In general, upon conversion, the holder of each note would receive, in respect of the conversion value of such note, cash up to the principal amount of such note and common stock for the notes conversion value in excess of such principal amount. In addition, on each of July 15, 2012, July 15, 2017 and July 15, 2022, holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. During the three months ended March 31, 2009, we extinguished $5,000,000 of these notes and recognized a gain of $594,000.  During the six months ended June 30, 2010, we extinguished $226,914,000 of these notes, recognized a loss of $16,235,000 and paid $21,062,000 to reacquire the equity component of convertible debt.  As of December 31, 2011, we had $168,086,000 of these notes outstanding.
     During the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, we issued $494,403,000 of 3.00% senior unsecured convertible notes due December 2029, generating net proceeds of $486,084,000. The notes are convertible, in certain circumstances, into cash and, if applicable, shares of common stock at an initial conversion rate of 19.5064 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which represents an initial conversion price of $51.27 per share. In general, upon conversion, the holder of each note would receive, in respect of the conversion value of such note, cash up to the principal amount of such note and common stock for the notes conversion value in excess of such principal amount. In addition, on each of December 1, 2014, December 1, 2019 and December 1, 2024, holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In connection with this issuance, we recognized $29,925,000 of equity component of convertible debt.
     During the year ended December 31, 2009, we extinguished $183,147,000 of senior unsecured notes with a weighted-average interest rate of 7.82% and recognized losses of $19,269,000.  During the three months ended June 30, 2010, we issued $450,000,000 of 6.125% senior unsecured notes due 2020 with net proceeds of $446,328,000.  During the three months ended September 30, 2010, we issued $450,000,000 of 4.70% senior unsecured notes due 2017 with net proceeds of $445,768,000.  During the three months ended December 31, 2010, we issued $450,000,000 of 4.95% senior unsecured notes due 2021 with net proceeds of $443,502,000.  During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we issued $400,000,000 of 3.625% senior unsecured notes due 2016, $600,000,000 of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2022 and $400,000,000 of 6.50% senior unsecured notes due 2041, generating net proceeds of $1,381,086,000.  
     We have secured debt totaling $2,112,649,000, collateralized by owned properties, with annual interest rates ranging from 1.22% to 10.00%. The carrying amounts of the secured debt represent the par value of $2,108,384,000 adjusted for any unamortized fair value adjustments.  The carrying values of the properties securing the debt totaled $4,048,469,000 at December 31, 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we extinguished 20 secured debt loans totaling $81,715,000 with a weighted-average interest rate of 7.21% and recognized extinguishment losses of $5,838,000.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, we issued $157,156,000 of first mortgage loans principal with a rate of 5.45% secured by 15 properties.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, we assumed $564,657,000 of first mortgage loans principal with an average rate of 6.06% secured by 60 properties.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, we extinguished $194,493,000 of first mortgage loans principal with an average rate of 6.07% and recognized a loss of $9,099,000.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, we issued $114,903,000 of first mortgage loans principal with a rate of 5.78% secured by nine properties.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, we assumed $940,855,000 of first mortgage loans principal with an average rate of 4.85% secured by 55 properties.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, we extinguished $55,317,000 of first mortgage loans principal with an average rate of 5.95% and recognized a gain of $979,000.
     We adopted FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) topic for Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments that May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (Convertible Debt Guidance), effective January 1, 2009. It provides guidance on accounting for convertible debt that may be settled in cash upon conversion. It requires bifurcation of the convertible debt instrument into a debt component and an equity component. The value of the debt component is based upon the estimated fair value of a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature. The difference between the contractual principal on the debt and the value allocated to the debt is recorded as an equity component and represents the conversion feature of the instrument. The excess of the contractual principal amount of the debt over its estimated fair value is amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the period used to estimate the fair value.
     Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements.
 
 
 
At December 31, 2011, the annual principal payments due on these debt obligations are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
11. Derivative Instruments
     We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We may elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to manage the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates.  Derivatives are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.  The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments.  Fair values of our derivatives are estimated by pricing models that consider the forward yield curves and discount rates.  Such amounts and the recognition of such amounts are subject to significant estimates that may change in the future.
     For instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of other comprehensive income (OCI), and reclassified into earnings in the same period, or periods, during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.  Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings.  Approximately $2,016,000 of losses, which are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), are expected to be reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months.
     The following is a summary of the fair value of our derivative instruments (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     The following presents the impact of derivative instruments on the statement of operations and OCI for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 
 
      As of December 31, 2011, we had eight interest rate swaps for a total aggregate notional amount of $135,445,000.  The swaps hedge interest payments associated with long-term LIBOR based borrowings and mature between December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013.
 
 
 
12. Commitments and Contingencies
     At December 31, 2011, we had five outstanding letter of credit obligations totaling $5,515,000 and expiring between 2012 and 2014.
     At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding construction in process of $189,502,000 for leased properties and were committed to providing additional funds of approximately $282,899,000 to complete construction. At December 31, 2011, we had contingent purchase obligations totaling $57,470,000. These contingent purchase obligations relate to unfunded capital improvement obligations. Rents due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.
     We evaluate our leases for operating versus capital lease treatment in accordance with ASC Topic 840 Leases.  A lease is classified as a capital lease if it provides for transfer of ownership of the leased asset at the end of the lease term, contains a bargain purchase option, has a lease term greater than 75% of the economic life of the leased asset, or if the net present value of the future minimum lease payments are in excess of 90% of the fair value of the leased asset. Certain leases contain bargain purchase options and have been classified as capital leases.  At December 31, 2011, we had operating lease obligations of $356,464,000 relating to certain ground leases and company office space. We incurred rental expense relating to company office space of $1,901,000, $1,280,000 and $1,138,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regarding the ground leases, we have sublease agreements with certain of our operators that require the operators to reimburse us for our monthly operating lease obligations. At December 31, 2011, aggregate future minimum rentals to be received under these noncancelable subleases totaled $29,558,000.
     At December 31, 2011, future minimum lease payments due under operating and capital leases are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
13. Stockholders Equity
 
     The following is a summary of our stockholders equity capital accounts as of the dates indicated:
 
 
     
Preferred Stock.
 During the year ended 2009, certain holders of our Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock converted 41,600 shares into 29,771 shares of our common stock, leaving 399,713 of such shares outstanding at December 31, 2009.  During the nine months ended September 30, 2010, certain holders of our Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock converted 394,200 shares into 282,078 shares of our common stock, leaving 5,513 of such shares outstanding, which were redeemed by us on September 30, 2010.  During the three months ended September 30, 2010, the holder of our Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock converted 74,380 shares into 56,935 shares of our common stock, leaving no shares outstanding at December 31, 2011.
 
 
 
     In July 2003, we closed a public offering of 4,000,000 shares of 7.875% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, are redeemable by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, effective July 9, 2008.
     In September 2004, we closed a public offering of 7,000,000 shares of 7.625% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, are redeemable by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, effective September 14, 2009.
     During the three months ended December 31, 2010, we issued 349,854 shares of 6.00% Series H Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock in connection with a business combination.  These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, on or after December 31, 2015.  See Note 3 for additional information.
     During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we issued 14,375,000 of 6.50% Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock.  These shares have a liquidation value of $50.00 per share.  Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears.  The preferred stock is not redeemable by us.  The preferred shares are convertible, at the holders option, into 0.8460 shares of common stock (equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $59.10).
 
     
Common Stock.
The following is a summary of our common stock issuances during the periods indicated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
 
 
 
     
Dividends
.  The following is a summary of our dividend payments (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
Comprehensive Income
 
     The following is a summary of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) as of the dates indicated (in thousands):
 
 
     The following is a summary of comprehensive income/(loss) for the periods indicated (in thousands):
 
 
Other Equity
     Other equity consists of accumulated option compensation expense, which represents the amount of amortized compensation costs related to stock options awarded to employees and directors. Expense, which is recognized as the options vest based on the market value at the date of the award, totaled $1,917,000, $1,634,000 and $1,629,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
14. Stock Incentive Plans
     Our Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan authorizes up to 6,200,000 shares of common stock to be issued at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The 2005 Plan replaced the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan and the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors. The options granted to officers and key employees under the 1995 Plan vested through 2010 and expire ten years from the date of grant. Our non-employee directors, officers and key employees are eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan. The 2005 Plan allows for the issuance of, among other things, stock options, restricted stock, deferred stock units and dividend equivalent rights. Vesting periods for options, deferred stock units and restricted shares generally range from three years for
 
 
 
non-employee directors to five years for officers and key employees. Options expire ten years from the date of grant.
 
Valuation Assumptions
     The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:
 
 
     The dividend yield represented the dividend yield of our common stock on the dates of grant. Our computation of expected volatility was based on historical volatility. The risk-free interest rates used were the 7-year U.S. Treasury Notes yield on the date of grant. The expected life was based on historical experience of similar awards, giving consideration to the contractual terms, vesting schedules and expectations regarding future employee behavior.
 
Option Award Activity
     The following table summarizes information about stock option activity for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011:
 
 
     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2011:
 
 
The aggregate intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the underlying options and the quoted price of our common stock for the options that were in-the-money at December 31, 2011.  During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
 
 
 
and 2009, the aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised under our stock incentive plans was $3,390,000, $1,798,000 and $737,000, respectively (determined as of the date of option exercise).  Cash received from option exercises under our stock incentive plans was $8,628,000, $4,022,000 and $3,676,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
As of December 31, 2011, there was approximately $4,419,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options granted under our stock incentive plans.  That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 4 years.  As of December 31, 2011, there was approximately $14,410,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock granted under our stock incentive plans.  That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3 years.
 
The following table summarizes information about non-vested stock incentive awards as of December 31, 2011 and changes for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011:
 
 
We use the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to estimate the value of stock option grants and expect to continue to use this acceptable option valuation model. We recognize compensation cost for share-based grants on a straight-line basis through the date the awards become fully vested or to the retirement eligible date, if sooner. Compensation cost totaled $10,786,000, $11,823,000 and $9,633,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
15. Earnings Per Share
     The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
The diluted earnings per share calculations exclude the dilutive effect of 0, 280,000 and 351,000 stock options for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, because the exercise prices were more than the average market price. The outstanding convertible senior unsecured notes were not included in the 2009 calculations as the effect of the conversions into common stock was anti-dilutive for that period.  The Series H Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock issued in 2010 was excluded from the calculations for 2010 and 2011 as the effect of the conversions was anti-dilutive.  The Series I
 
 
 
Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock issued in 2011 was excluded from the calculations for 2011 as the effect of the conversions was anti-dilutive.
 
 
 
16. Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value.
 
Mortgage Loans and Other Real Estate Loans Receivable
 The fair value of mortgage loans and other real estate loans receivable is generally estimated by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities. 
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 The carrying amount approximates fair value.
 
Available-for-sale Equity Investments
 Available-for-sale equity investments are recorded at their fair value based on publicly available trading prices.
 
Borrowings Under Unsecured Lines of Credit Arrangements
 The carrying amount of the unsecured line of credit arrangement approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.
 
Senior Unsecured Notes
 The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable was estimated based on publicly available trading prices.
 
Secured Debt
 The fair value of fixed rate secured debt is estimated by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities.  The carrying amount of variable rate secured debt approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.
 
Interest Rate Swap Agreements
 Interest rate swap agreements are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair market value.  Fair market value is estimated by utilizing pricing models that consider forward yield curves and discount rates.
 
The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
U.S. GAAP provides authoritative guidance for measuring and disclosing fair value measurements of assets and liabilities.  The guidance defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.  The guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.  The guidance describes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:
 
Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 
Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.  Interest rate swap agreements are valued using models that assume a hypothetical
 
 
 
transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability in the principal market for the asset or liability based on market data derived from interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals, volatilities, prepayment timing, loss severities, credit risks and default rates.
 
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
 
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
 
The market approach is utilized to measure fair value for our financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value on a recurring basis.  The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities.
 
 
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
 
In addition to items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we also have assets and liabilities in our balance sheet that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.  As these assets and liabilities are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis, they are not included in the tables above. Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations (see Note 3) and asset impairments (see Note 5 for impairments of real property and Note 6 for impairments of loans receivable). We have determined that the fair value measurements included in each of these assets and liabilities rely primarily on Company-specific inputs and our assumptions about the use of the assets and settlement of liabilities, as observable inputs are not available. As such, we have determined that each of these fair value measurements generally reside within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. We estimate the fair value of real estate and related intangibles using the income approach and unobservable data such as net operating income and estimated capitalization and discount rates.  We also consider local and national industry market data including comparable sales, and commonly engage an external real estate appraiser to assist us in our estimation of fair value.  We estimate the fair value of secured debt assumed in business combinations using current interest rates at which similar borrowings could be obtained on the transaction date.
 
17. Segment Reporting
     During the year ended December 31, 2011, we changed the name of our seniors housing and care segment to seniors housing triple-net. Additionally, we added a new seniors housing operating segment. There was no activity related to this segment prior to September 1, 2010. We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three business segments: seniors housing triple-net, seniors housing operating and medical facilities. Our seniors housing triple-net properties include skilled nursing/post-acute facilities, assisted living facilities, independent living/continuing care retirement communities and combinations thereof. Under the seniors housing triple-net segment, we invest in seniors housing and health care real estate through acquisition and financing of primarily single tenant properties. Properties acquired are primarily leased under triple-net leases and we are not involved in the management of the property. Our seniors housing operating properties include assisted living facilities and independent living/continuing care retirement communities that are owned and/or operated through RIDEA partnership structures. Our primary medical facility properties include medical office buildings, hospitals and life science buildings. Our medical office buildings are typically leased to multiple tenants and generally require a certain level of property management. Our hospital investments are structured similar to our seniors housing triple-net investments. Our life science investments represent investments in an unconsolidated entity (see Note 7 for additional information).  The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements). There are no intersegment sales or transfers. We evaluate performance based upon net operating income of the combined properties in each
 
 
 
segment. Non-segment revenue consists mainly of interest income on non-real estate investments and other income. Non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including cash, deferred loan expenses and corporate offices and equipment among others. Non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual segments in determining net operating income.
     Summary information for the reportable segments during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
 
______________________________________________
(1)
    
Net operating income from continuing operations (NOI) is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property level operating expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, impairments and interest expense. We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
(2)
    
Excludes income and expense amounts related to our properties held in unconsolidated entities.  Please see Note 7 for additional information.
  
18.
Income Taxes and Distributions
 
To qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, at least 90% of taxable income (excluding 100% of net capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders. We distributed at least 100% of taxable income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  Real estate investment trusts that do not distribute a certain amount of current year taxable income in the current year are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The main differences between undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and financial statement purposes are the recognition of straight-line rent for reporting purposes, basis differences in acquisitions, differing useful lives and depreciation and amortization methods for real property and the provision for loan losses for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes.
 
Cash distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as follows:
 
 
At December 31, 2011, we had U.S. federal tax losses from our taxable REIT subsidiaries (TRS) of $7,400,000, as well as apportioned state tax losses of $14,240,000 available for carryforward. Valuation allowances have been established for these assets based upon our assessment, as it is more likely than not that such assets may not be realized. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the federal tax valuation allowance declined by $10,306,000 due to current year utilization of net operating losses.  The U.S. federal and state tax loss carryforwards expire from 2012 through 2031.
 
Tax expense reflected in the financial statements primarily represents federal, state and local income taxes as well as amounts related to uncertain tax positions as discussed below.  As a result of certain acquisitions, we are subject to corporate level taxes for related asset dispositions for the period December 31, 2011 through December 31, 2021 (built-in gains tax). The amount of income potentially subject to this special corporate level tax is generally equal to (a) the excess of the fair value of the asset as of December 31, 2011 over its adjusted tax basis as of December 31, 2011, or (b) the actual amount of gain, whichever of (a) and (b) is lower. Some
 
 
 
but not all gains recognized during this period of time could be offset by available net operating losses and capital loss carryforwards. We have not recorded a deferred tax liability as a result of the potential built-in gains tax based on our intentions with respect to such properties and available tax planning strategies.
 
Under the provisions of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (RIDEA), for taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008, the REIT may lease qualified health care properties on an arms-length basis to a TRS if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an eligible independent contractor. Generally, the rent received from the TRS will meet the related party rent exception and will be treated as rents from real property. A qualified health care property includes real property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients.
 
Through December 31, 2011, we entered into five joint ventures that were structured under RIDEA.  Resident level rents and related operating expenses for these facilities are reported in the consolidated financial statements and are subject to federal taxes as the operations of such facilities are included in a TRS.  Certain net operating loss carryforwards could be utilized to offset taxable income in future years.
 
We apply the rules under ASC 740-10 in our Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes for uncertain tax positions using a more likely than not recognition threshold for tax positions. Pursuant to these rules, we will initially recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits of the tax position, that such a position will be sustained upon examination by the relevant tax authorities. If the tax benefit meets the more likely than not threshold, the measurement of the tax benefit will be based on our estimate of the ultimate tax benefit to be sustained if audited by the taxing authority.
 
The entire balance of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2011 of $6,098,000 (exclusive of accrued interest and penalties) relates to the April 1, 2011 Genesis Acquisition discussed in further detail in Note 3 and is included in Accrued expenses and other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.  As a part of the Genesis Acquisition, we received a full indemnification from FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC covering income taxes or other taxes as well as  interest and penalties relating to tax positions taken by FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC prior to the acquisition.  Accordingly, an offsetting indemnification asset is recorded in receivables and other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Such indemnification asset is reviewed for collectability periodically.
 
There were $149,000 of uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2011 for which it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits would decrease during 2012.  Interest and penalties totaled $582,000 in expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 and were recorded as income tax expense in the consolidated statements of income with an offsetting amount recorded in other income relating to the increase in the indemnification asset. As of December 31, 2011, $2,738,000 of interest and penalties were accrued related to income taxes.
 
19. Retirement Arrangements
 
Under the retirement plan and trust (the 401(k) Plan), eligible employees may make contributions, and we may make matching contributions and a profit sharing contribution. Our contributions to the 401(k) Plan totaled $1,558,000, $1,341,000 and $1,201,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
We have a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP), a non-qualified defined benefit pension plan, which provides one executive officer with supplemental deferred retirement benefits. The SERP provides an opportunity for the participant to receive retirement benefits that cannot be paid under our tax-qualified plans because of the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Benefits are based on compensation and length of service and the SERP is unfunded. Benefit payments are expected to total $2,375,000 during the next five fiscal years and $3,560,000 thereafter. We use a December 31 measurement date for the SERP. The accrued liability on our balance sheet for the SERP was $5,623,000 at December 31, 2011 ($4,066,000 at December 31, 2010).
 
The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in the SERPs benefit obligations for the periods indicated (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
We contributed $1,347,000 to the plan in connection with a settlement during the year ended December 31, 2011.  The following table shows the components of net periodic benefit costs for the periods indicated (in thousands):
 
 
The following table provides information for the SERP, which has an accumulated benefit in excess of plan assets (in thousands):
 
 
The following table reflects the weighted-average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost for the SERP:
 
 
 
 
20. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)
 
The following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands, except per share data). The sum of individual quarterly amounts may not agree to the annual amounts included in the consolidated statements of income due to rounding.
 
 
21. Subsequent Events
 
Chartwell
.  On February 15, 2012, the company announced it will partner with Chartwell Seniors Housing Real Estate Investment Trust to own and operate a portfolio of 42 seniors housing and care communities located in Canada. The portfolio is being acquired for $925 million.  This transaction will be structured under RIDEA with 39 facilities owned 50% by us and 50% by Chartwell, and three facilities wholly owned by us.  Our $503 million investment will be through a combination of cash and the pro rata assumption of secured debt.  Chartwell will provide management services to the communities under an incentive-based management contract.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 








