FILE:HCN/HCN-8K-20120507171924.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 3, 2012, the Board of Directors of Health Care REIT, Inc. (the "Company") appointed Judith C. Pelham as a member of the Board of Directors. Ms. Pelham will be a member of the Investment and Planning Committees. Her term as a director will expire at the next annual meeting of shareholders.
In connection with the appointment, the Company entered into an indemnification agreement with Ms. Pelham. The agreement is substantially identical to the agreements previously entered into between the Company and its other directors and generally provides that the Company will, in certain circumstances, indemnify Ms. Pelham against any and all expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement arising out of her service to the Company. The agreement also provides for the advancement of expenses in connection with a threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding.
The press release announcing the appointment of Ms. Pelham is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 5.07
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The annual meeting of shareholders of the Company was duly called and held on May 3, 2012 in Toledo, Ohio. The voting results for each of the proposals submitted to a vote of the shareholders at the annual meeting are as follows:
Proposal #1  Election of ten directors to hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders:
 
Proposal #2  Approval of the compensation of the named executive officers of the Company as disclosed in the Proxy Statement pursuant to the compensation disclosure rules of the SEC:
 
Proposal #3  Ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year 2012:
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 7, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Toledo, Ohio, May 7, 2012... today announced that Judy Pelham has been named to its board of directors.
Health Care REIT, Inc. (NYSE:HCN)
"We are honored to welcome Judy Pelham to Health Care REIT's board of directors," commented George L. Chapman, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Health Care REIT, Inc. "Judy's prominent leadership and extensive experience in health care will further strengthen our highly knowledgeable board of directors and contribute to Health Care REIT's leadership position in the health care industry."
Ms. Pelham has been actively involved in the health care industry for over 30 years. Her experience in health care includes leadership roles with leading hospital systems and health care institutions.
Most recently, Ms. Pelham served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Trinity Health, one of the top 10 health care systems in the United States serving a network of 40 hospitals, including long-term care facilities, home care and hospice programs, senior living communities, physician offices and other health care services and programs. Prior to this role, Ms. Pelham served as President and Chief Executive Officer of two additional leading health care systems, Mercy Health Services and Daughters of Charity Health Services of Austin, Texas. Ms. Pelham's career has also included work with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and Harvard School of Public Health.
Ms. Pelham received her undergraduate degree from Smith College in 1967 and a Master in Public Administration degree in 1975 from Harvard University. Ms. Pelham currently serves on the boards of directors of Amgen and Smith College. Health Care REIT engaged Caldwell Partners International in the search process to recruit Ms. Pelham.
About Health Care REIT, Inc.
Health Care REIT, Inc., an S&P 500 company with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is a real estate investment trust that invests across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real estate. The company also provides an extensive array of property management and development services. As of December 31, 2011, the company's broadly diversified portfolio consisted of 937 properties in 46 states. More information is available on the company's website at .
www.hcreit.com


