FILE:ORLY/ORLY-8K-20050901175819.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 1, 2005
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
Section 7 - Regulation FD
Item 7.01  Regulation and FD Disclosure
On September 1, 2005, OReilly Automotive, Inc. issued a press release updating the status of stores affected by Hurricane Katrina. The text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Springfield, MO, September 1, 2005
-- OReilly Automotive, Inc. (OReilly or the Company) (Nasdaq: ORLY) today announced that the majority of stores in the areas affected by Hurricane Katrina have reopened. As of 1:00 p.m. CST today, only 19 stores remain closed, 10 of which are ready to reopen once clearance has been given by the authorities. One store has sustained serious damage, and the status of the remaining eight stores is uncertain at this time due to very limited access to some of the affected areas.
Considering the extent of the overall damage sustained in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama, we feel very fortunate. We have initiated shipments of relief supplies and monetary assistance to our affected team members through our Team Member Emergency fund, stated Greg Henslee, CEO and Co-President.
Our team members have pulled together to quickly reopen our Distribution Center in Mobile, Alabama and surrounding stores to provide much needed supplies to the customers in these areas, said Ted Wise, COO and Co-President.
OReilly Automotive, Inc.
is one of the largest specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States, serving both the do-it-yourself and professional installer markets. Founded in 1957 by the OReilly family, the Company operated 1,399 stores within the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming as of June 30, 2005.
The Company claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by forward-looking words such as expect,believe,anticipate,good,plan,intend,estimate,project,will or similar words. In addition, statements contained within this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements discussing among other things, expected growth, store development and expansion strategy, business strategies, future revenues and future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, competition, product demand, the market for auto parts, the economy in general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental approvals, our ability to hire and retain qualified employees, risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses, weather, terrorist activities, war and the threat of war. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results described or implied in these forward-looking statements. Please refer to the Risk Factors sections of the Companys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, for more details.
 


