FILE:ORLY/ORLY-8K-20070620144611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): June 20, 2007
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On June 20, 2007, O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. issued a press release announcing the date of a company presentation. The text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Tom McFall
(417) 862-3333
 
O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. TO PRESENT AT THE WILLIAM BLAIR 27
TH
ANNUAL GROWTH STOCK CONFERENCE
 
Springfield, MO, June 20, 2007 
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. (the "Company") (Nasdaq: ORLY) plans to make a presentation at the William Blair and Company's 27
th
Annual Growth Stock Conference in Chicago, Illinois on Thursday June 21, 2007, at 12:30 pm Central Time.
 
Investors are invited to listen to the presentation via webcast on the Company's website at
www.oreillyauto.com
by clicking on "Investor Relations" then "News Room." A replay of the presentation will also be available on the Company's website following the presentation.
 
The slides for the presentation will be available Thursday, June 21, 2007, through the Company's website at www.oreillyauto.com by clicking "Investor Relations" then "Financials."
 
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.
is one of the largest specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States, serving both the do-it-yourself and professional installer markets. Founded in 1957 by the O'Reilly family, the Company operated 1,687 stores in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming as of March 31, 2007.
 
The Company claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by forward-looking words such as "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "should," "plan," "intend," "estimate," "project," "will" or similar words. In addition, statements contained within this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements discussing among other things, expected growth, store development and expansion strategy, business strategies, future revenues and future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, competition, product demand, the market for auto parts, the economy in general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental approvals, our ability to hire and retain qualified employees, risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses, weather, terrorist activities, war and the threat of war. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results described or implied in these forward-looking statements. Please refer to the Risk Factors sections of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, for more details.
 
 
 
 


