FILE:ORLY/ORLY-8K-20090519161030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 8, 2009, Joseph C. Greene, an independent director of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. (the "Company") and Chairman of the Company's Corporate Governance/Nominating Committee, passed away. On May 19, 2009, the Company received from The NASDAQ Stock Market ("Nasdaq") a letter (the "Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter") indicating that, as a result of Mr. Greene's death, the Company is not currently in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5605 which requires that a majority of the board of directors be comprised of independent directors. The Company currently has eight (8) directors, only four (4) of which qualify as independent directors. In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5605(b)(1)(A), the Company has a "cure period" of until the next annual shareholders' meeting or May 8, 2010 to regain compliance.
Under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(b), the Company is required to issue a press release disclosing the receipt of the Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter and the Nasdaq Listing Rules upon which it is based. Accordingly, on May 19, 2009, the Company issued such a press release. The full text of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Board has selected Paul R. Lederer, an existing independent director, to fill Mr. Greene's position as Chairman of the Corporate Governance/Nominating Committee. The Board intends to identify candidates to replace Mr. Greene and appoint a new director who satisfies the independence requirements of the Nasdaq Listing Rules prior to the expiration of the cure period.
 
On May 14, 2009, Larry O'Reilly, a member of the Board, established a plan in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), for the trading of the Company's common stock. The plan provides for the sales of specified share amounts at specific market prices, subject to specified limitations. The plan was established for the purpose of diversifying Mr. O'Reilly's portfolio. The plan was established during the Company's unrestricted trading window and at a time when Mr. O'Reilly was not in possession of material, non-public information about the Company. Mr. O'Reilly has informed the Company that he will publicly disclose, as required by federal securities laws, any stock sales made under this plan.
On May 15, 2009, David O'Reilly, a member of the Board, established a plan in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act for the trading of the Company's common stock. The plan provides for the sales of specified share amounts at specific market prices, subject to specified limitations. The plan was established for the purpose of facilitating the exercise and subsequent sale of stock options as part of Mr. O'Reilly's personal long-term investment strategy for asset diversification and liquidity. The plan was established during the Company's unrestricted trading window and at a time when Mr. O'Reilly was not in possession of material, non-public information about the Company. Mr. O'Reilly has informed the Company that he will publicly disclose, as required by federal securities laws, any stock sales made under this plan.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. ("O'Reilly" or the "Company") (Nasdaq: ORLY) today announced that it received a written notification from the staff at The NASDAQ Stock Market ("Nasdaq") that as a result of the death on May 8, 2009 of Joseph C. Greene, an independent director and Chairman of the Company's Corporate Governance/Nominating Committee, the Company's board of directors is no longer comprised of a majority of independent directors as required by Nasdaq Listing Rule 5605. The Company currently has eight (8) directors, only four (4) of which qualify as independent directors. In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5605(b)(1)(A), the Company has a "cure period" of until the next annual shareholders' meeting or May 8, 2010 to regain compliance.
Springfield, MO, May 19, 2009
The board of directors has selected Paul R. Lederer, an existing independent director, to fill Mr. Greene's position as Chairman of the Corporate Governance/Nominating Committee. The board intends to identify candidates to replace Mr. Greene and appoint a new director who satisfies the independence requirements of the Nasdaq Listing Rules prior to the expiration of the cure period.
is one of the largest specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States, serving both the do-it-yourself and professional installer markets. Founded in 1957 by the O'Reilly family, the Company operated 3,337 stores in 38 states as of March 31, 2009.
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.
The Company claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by forward-looking words such as "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "should," "plan," "intend," "estimate," "project," "will" or similar words. In addition, statements contained within this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements discussing among other things, expected growth, store development, integration and expansion strategy, business strategies, future revenues and future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, competition, product demand, the market for auto parts, the economy in general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental approvals, our ability to hire and retain qualified employees, risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses including the acquisition of CSK, weather, terrorist activities, war and the threat of war. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results described or implied in these forward-looking statements. Please refer to the Risk Factors sections of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, for additional factors that could materially affect the Company's financial performance.
 


