FILE:ORLY/ORLY-8K-20101229165534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information set forth under Item 8.01 below is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information set forth under Item 8.01 below is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information set forth under Item 8.01 below is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Holding Company Reorganization
On December 20, 2010, O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. ("Old O'Reilly") formed each of O'Reilly Holdings, Inc. (the "Company"), a Missouri corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Old O'Reilly, and O'Reilly MergerCo, Inc. ("MergerCo"), a Missouri corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, for the purpose of facilitating its corporate reorganization to create a holding company structure (the "Reorganization") pursuant to and in accordance with Section 351.448 of The General Corporation Law of the State of Missouri (the "MGBCL"). As a result of the Reorganization, the Company will become the parent holding company of Old O'Reilly, adopting the name "O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.", and Old O'Reilly will be renamed "O'Reilly Automotive Stores, Inc."
The Reorganization will be effected pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated as of December 29, 2010, among the Company, Old O'Reilly and MergerCo. As provided for in the Merger Agreement, MergerCo will merge with and into Old O'Reilly, with Old O'Reilly continuing as the surviving corporation and as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger"). Pursuant to Section 351.448 of the MGBCL, shareholder approval of the Merger is not required.
At the effective time of the Merger (the "Effective Time") and pursuant to the Merger Agreement, (i) each issued and outstanding share of common stock of Old O'Reilly will be converted into a share of common stock of the Company, with the same designations, rights, qualifications, powers, preferences, qualifications, limitations and restrictions, and without any action being required on the part of holders of shares of Old O'Reilly common stock, (ii) each share of the Company's common stock owned by Old O'Reilly will be cancelled, and (iii) each share of common stock of MergerCo will be converted into a share of common stock of Old O'Reilly, as the surviving corporation of the merger. The shareholders of Old O'Reilly will not recognize gain or loss for United States federal income tax purposes as a result of the Merger.
The conversion of the shares of common stock in the Merger will occur without an exchange of certificates. Accordingly, shares of the Company's common stock (including the associated preferred stock purchase rights) will continue to be represented by the same stock certificates that represented pre-merger shares of Old O'Reilly's common stock (including the associated preferred stock purchase rights). Shares of the Company's common stock will be substituted for the shares of common stock of Old O'Reilly listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market immediately prior to the Effective Time and will continue to trade under the same "ORLY" symbol but will have a new CUSIP Number (67103H 107).
In addition, at the Effective Time and pursuant to the Merger Agreement, (i) each option to acquire shares of Old O'Reilly's common stock will be converted into an option to purchase a number of shares of common stock of the Company equal to the number of shares of Old O'Reilly common stock issuable upon the exercise of such option and will otherwise continue to be governed by the same terms and conditions as applied to such option immediately prior to the Effective Time, and (ii) each other equity-based award of Old O'Reilly will be converted into an equity-based award with respect to a number of shares of common stock of the Company equal to the number of shares of Old O'Reilly common stock then subject to such equity-based award and will otherwise continue to be governed by the same terms and conditions as applied to such equity-based award immediately prior to the Effective Time. The conversion of the options and other equity based awards in the Merger will occur automatically, without any action being required on the part of holders of such options or other equity based awards.
The foregoing description of the Merger and the Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as and incorporated herein by this reference.
Exhibit 2.1
Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Company; Directors and Executive Officers
In accordance with Section 351.448(7) of the MGBCL, the articles of incorporation (as amended, the "Articles") and bylaws (as amended, the "Bylaws") of the Company will be substantially identical to the restated articles of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of Old O'Reilly as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time. A copy of each of the Articles and the Bylaws is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as and , respectively, and incorporated herein by this reference. The directors and executive officers of the Company will be the same individuals who were directors and executive officers, respectively, of Old O'Reilly immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Exhibits 3.1
3.2
Amendment to Rights Agreement
As authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), as part of the Reorganization, the Company entered into Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement, dated as of December 29, 2010 (the "Amendment"), by and among the Company, Old O'Reilly and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as successor rights agent to UMB Bank, N.A. Pursuant to the Amendment, at the Effective Time, the Company will succeed to the rights and obligations
of Old O'Reilly under the Rights Agreement, dated as of May 7, 2002, between Old O'Reilly and UMB Bank, N.A., as rights agent (the "Rights Agreement"), such that each Right thereunder will entitle the registered holder to purchase a unit consisting of one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Company Series A Preferred Stock"), from the Company, in lieu of Old O'Reilly, on the same terms and subject to the same conditions as applied with respect to Old O'Reilly. The terms and conditions of the Company Series A Preferred Stock were designated by the Board in the Articles.
The terms and conditions of the Rights and a description of the Rights Agreement were previously disclosed, and a copy of the Rights Agreement was previously filed, in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Old O'Reilly with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on June 3, 2002.
This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed with the SEC by the Company as successor issuer to Old O'Reilly by virtue of Rule 12g-3(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and as required by Rule 12g-3(f) under the Exchange Act. Upon consummation of the Merger, the Company's common stock (including the associated preferred stock purchase rights) will be deemed to be registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. The Company will be deemed a large accelerated filer for purposes of Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act. The Company will succeed to Old O'Reilly's Commission file number (000-21318) and its Central Index Key (CIK) code (0000898173), and will continue to file reports thereunder.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 29, 2010
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
THIS AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER (this ""), dated as of December 29, 2010, is among O'Reilly Automotive, Inc., a Missouri corporation (""), O'Reilly Holdings, Inc., a Missouri corporation (""), and O'Reilly MergerCo, Inc., a Missouri corporation ("").
Merger Agreement
O'Reilly
Holdco
MergerCo
WHEREAS, Holdco is a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of O'Reilly, and MergerCo is a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco;
WHEREAS, Holdco and MergerCo are newly formed corporations organized for the purpose of participating in the transactions herein contemplated;
WHEREAS, O'Reilly has authorized capital stock consisting of (i) 245,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), of which, as of the date hereof, []
O'Reilly Common Stock
1
shares are issued and outstanding and [] shares are held in O'Reilly's treasury, and (ii) 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), of which no shares are outstanding as of the date hereof;
O'Reilly Preferred Stock
WHEREAS, Holdco has authorized capital stock consisting of (i) 245,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the ""), of which, as of the date hereof, 1,000 shares are issued and outstanding and no shares are held in treasury, and (ii) 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (the ""), of which no shares are outstanding as of the date hereof;
Holdco Common Stock
Holdco Preferred Stock
WHEREAS, as of the date hereof, MergerCo has authorized capital stock consisting of 1,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the ""), of which all 1,000 shares are outstanding as of the date hereof and owned by Holdco;
MergerCo Common Stock
WHEREAS, the designations, rights, powers and preferences, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Holdco Common Stock and the Holdco Preferred Stock, are the same as those of O'Reilly Common Stock and O'Reilly Preferred Stock, respectively;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 351.448 of The Missouri General and Business Corporation Law (the ""), O'Reilly desires to create a new holding company structure by merging MergerCo with and into O'Reilly, with O'Reilly continuing as the surviving corporation of such merger, and each share (or any fraction thereof) of O'Reilly Common Stock and O'Reilly Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of such merger being converted in such merger into a like number of shares of Holdco Common Stock and Holdco Preferred Stock, respectively, all in accordance with the terms of this Merger Agreement (the "");
MGBCL
Merger
 
WHEREAS, O'Reilly and MergerCo are the only constituent corporations to the Merger;
WHEREAS, as a result of the Merger, O'Reilly will become a directly wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco;
WHEREAS, the respective Boards of Directors of each of Holdco, MergerCo and O'Reilly have approved this Merger Agreement and the Merger upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Merger Agreement;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of O'Reilly has determined, in accordance with Section 351.448.1(8) of the MGBCL, that the shareholders of O'Reilly will not recognize gain or loss for United States federal income tax purposes as a result of the Merger;
WHEREAS, the Articles of Incorporation of Holdco (the "") and the Bylaws of Holdco (the "") in effect immediately after the Effective Time (as hereinafter defined) will contain provisions identical to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of O'Reilly (the "") and the Amended and Restated Bylaws of O'Reilly (the "") in effect immediately before the Effective Time (other than with respect to matters excepted by Section 351.448.1(4) of the MGBCL); and
Holdco Charter
Holdco Bylaws
O'Reilly Charter
O'Reilly Bylaws
WHEREAS, the directors and officers of O'Reilly immediately prior to the Merger will be the directors and officers of Holdco at the Effective Time.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants and agreements contained in this Merger Agreement, and intending to be legally bound hereby, O'Reilly, Holdco and MergerCo hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1.1 . (a) In accordance with Section 351.448 of the MGBCL and upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Merger Agreement, MergerCo shall, at the Effective Time, be merged with and into O'Reilly, the separate corporate existence of MergerCo shall cease, and O'Reilly shall continue as the surviving corporation of the Merger (the "").
THE MERGER
Surviving Corporation
(b) The closing (the "") of the Merger will take place at 10:00 am, Los Angeles time, on a date (the "") to be specified by O'Reilly, which may be on, but shall be no later than the third business day after, the day on which there shall have been satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in Article 3 hereof, at the offices of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, 300 South Grand Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90071, unless another time, date or place is agreed to in writing by the parties hereto.
Closing
Closing Date
 
SECTION 1.2 . (a) The parties shall file, on the Closing Date or as soon as practicable thereafter, articles of merger with respect to the Merger (the ""), executed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the MGBCL, and with this Merger Agreement attached thereto, with the Secretary of State of the State of Missouri, and shall make all other filings or recordings required under the MGBCL to effectuate the Merger. The Merger shall become effective upon issuance of the certificate of merger by the Secretary of State of the State of Missouri (the time the Merger becomes effective shall hereinafter be referred to as the "").
EFFECTIVE TIME
Articles of Merger
Effective Time
(b) The Merger shall have the effects set forth in the MGBCL. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject thereto, at the Effective Time, all the properties, rights, powers and privileges of MergerCo shall vest in the Surviving Corporation, and all debts, liabilities and duties of MergerCo shall become the debts, liabilities and duties of the Surviving Corporation.
SECTION 1.3 . From and after the Effective Time, O'Reilly's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall be the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Surviving Corporation, except with such changes as are permitted by Section 351.448.1(7) of the MGBCL (the "") until thereafter amended in accordance with its terms and as provided by law; provided, however, that, from and after the Effective Time:
AMENDED AND RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OF SURVIVING CORPORATION
Surviving Corporation's Charter
(i) Article I thereof shall be amended so as to read in its entirety as follows:
"The name of this corporation is "O'Reilly Automotive Stores, Inc."
(ii) Article II thereof shall be amended so as to read in its entirety as follows:
"The address of the corporation's registered office in the State of Missouri is 120 South Central Avenue, Clayton, Missouri, 63105 and the name of its registered agent is CT Corporation System."
(iii) Article III thereof shall be amended so as to read in its entirety as follows:
"(a) The aggregate number, class and par value of shares which the corporation shall have the authority to issue shall be one thousand (1,000) shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share.
(b) The voting power of the corporation shall be vested in the holders of the common stock, who shall be entitled to one vote per share of common stock on all matters to be voted on by the shareholders.
 
(c) No holder of any share of stock or other security of the corporation, either now or hereafter authorized or issued, shall have any preferential or preemptive right to acquire additional shares of stock or any other security of the corporation.
(d) There shall be no right to cumulative voting in the election of directors.
(e) Except as otherwise required by The General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri, whenever the holders of shares of stock of the corporation shall be entitled to vote as a class with respect to any matter, the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of such class shall be required to constitute the act of such class."
(iv) Article IV thereof shall be amended so as to read in its entirety as follows:
"The number of directors of the corporation shall be that number that is fixed by, or in the manner provided in, the Bylaws of the corporation; provided, however, that the number of directors of the corporation shall be not less than one nor more than three persons. Any changes in the number of directors shall be reported to the Missouri Secretary of State within thirty (30) calendar days of such change."
(v) A new Article XII shall be added thereto which shall be and read in its entirety as follows:
"ARTICLE XII. Any act or transaction by or involving the corporation that requires for its adoption pursuant to Chapter 351 of the Missouri General and Business Corporation Law or these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation the approval of the shareholders of the corporation shall, pursuant to Section 351.448 of the Missouri General and Business Corporation Law, require, in addition, the approval of the shareholders of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc., a Missouri corporation formerly known as O'Reilly Holdings, Inc., or any successor thereto by merger, by the same vote as is required pursuant to Chapter 351 of the Missouri General and Business Corporation Law or the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the corporation, or both."
SECTION 1.4 . From and after the Effective Time, the Amended and Restated Bylaws of O'Reilly, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall constitute the Bylaws of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter amended in accordance with their terms or by applicable law.
BYLAWS OF SURVIVING CORPORATION
 
SECTION 1.5 . The directors of O'Reilly in office immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the initial directors of the Surviving Corporation and will hold office from the Effective Time until their successors are duly elected or appointed and qualified in the manner provided in the Surviving Corporation's Bylaws, or as otherwise provided by law.
DIRECTORS OF SURVIVING CORPORATION
SECTION 1.6 . The officers of O'Reilly in office immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the officers of the Surviving Corporation until the earlier of their resignation or removal or until their successors are duly elected or appointed and qualified in the manner provided in the Surviving Corporation's Bylaws, or as otherwise provided by law.
OFFICERS OF SURVIVING CORPORATION
SECTION 1.7 . From and after the Effective Time, the Holdco Charter, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall be the Articles of Incorporation of Holdco, except with such changes as are permitted and contemplated by Sections 351.410(4) and 351.448.3(2) of the MGBCL until thereafter amended in accordance with its terms and as provided by law; provided, however, that, from and after the Effective Time:
ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OF HOLDCO
(i) Article I thereof shall be amended so as to read in its entirety as follows:
"The name of this corporation is "O'Reilly Automotive, Inc."
SECTION 1.8 . Subject to the terms of this Merger Agreement, the parties hereto shall take all such reasonable and lawful action as may be necessary or appropriate in order to effectuate the Merger. If, at any time after the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation shall consider or be advised that any deeds, bills of sale, assignments, assurances or any other actions or things are necessary or desirable to vest, perfect or confirm, of record or otherwise, in the Surviving Corporation its right, title or interest in, to or under any of the rights, properties or assets of either of MergerCo or O'Reilly acquired or to be acquired by the Surviving Corporation as a result of, or in connection with, the Merger or otherwise to carry out this Merger Agreement, the officers and directors of the Surviving Corporation shall be authorized to execute and deliver, in the name and on behalf of each of MergerCo and O'Reilly, all such deeds, bills of sale, assignments and assurances and to take and do, in the name and on behalf of each of MergerCo and O'Reilly or otherwise, all such other actions and things as may be necessary or desirable to vest, perfect or confirm any and all right, title and interest in, to and under such rights, properties or assets in the Surviving Corporation or otherwise to carry out this Merger Agreement.
ADDITIONAL ACTIONS
 
SECTION 1.9 . At the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of Holdco, MergerCo, O'Reilly or the holder of any of the following securities:
CONVERSION OF SECURITIES
(a) CONVERSION OF O'REILLY COMMON STOCK. Each share of O'Reilly Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into and thereafter represent one duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Holdco Common Stock and each outstanding preferred stock purchase right previously attached to each share of O'Reilly Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall attach to each new share of Holdco Common Stock.
(b) CONVERSION OF O'REILLY COMMON STOCK IN TREASURY. Each share of O'Reilly Common Stock issued but held by O'Reilly in its treasury immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into and thereafter represent one duly issued, fully paid and non-assessable share of Holdco Common Stock held in Holdco's treasury.
(c) CONVERSION OF CAPITAL STOCK OF MERGER SUB. Each share of MergerCo Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into and thereafter represent one duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Corporation.
(d) CANCELLATION OF CAPITAL STOCK OF HOLDCO. Each share of Holdco Common Stock that is owned by O'Reilly immediately prior to the Effective Time shall automatically be cancelled and retired and cease to exist upon the conversion of the outstanding shares of O'Reilly into shares of Holdco.
(e) RIGHTS OF CERTIFICATE HOLDERS. Holders of certificates formerly evidencing O'Reilly Common Stock or O'Reilly Preferred shall cease to have any rights as shareholders of O'Reilly, except as provided by law; provided, however, that such holders shall have the rights set forth in Section 1.11 hereof.
SECTION 1.10 . (a) At the Effective Time, automatically and without any action on the part of O'Reilly, Holdco, MergerCo or the holders of any options to acquire shares of O'Reilly Common Stock (the ""), or the holders of any other equity-based award of O'Reilly, (i) Holdco will assume each O'Reilly Stock Option and each other equity-based award of O'Reilly which is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, (ii) each such O'Reilly Stock Option shall be converted into an option to purchase a number of shares of Holdco Common Stock equal to the number of shares of O'Reilly Common Stock issuable upon the exercise of such O'Reilly Stock Option and shall otherwise continue to be governed by the same terms and conditions as applied to such O'Reilly Stock Option immediately prior to the Effective Time, and (iii) each such other equity-based award of O'Reilly shall be converted into an equity-based award with respect to a number of shares of Holdco Common Stock equal to the number of shares of O'Reilly Common Stock then subject to such equity-based award and shall otherwise continue to be governed by the same terms and conditions as applied to such equity-based award immediately prior to the Effective Time.
STOCK OPTIONS AND EQUITY-BASED AWARDS
O'Reilly Stock Options
 
(a) At the Effective Time, Holdco shall assume sponsorship of and all obligations of O'Reilly under each plan of O'Reilly pursuant to which shares of O'Reilly Common Stock are or may be issued ("") and the Board of Directors of Holdco and its compensation committee shall assume the authority of the Board of Directors of O'Reilly and its compensation committee under each such Equity Compensation Plan. In addition, each of the Equity Compensation Plans shall be adjusted in accordance with its terms to provide that shares issuable thereunder (including with respect to new awards) shall be shares of Holdco Common Stock.
Equity Compensation Plans
SECTION 1.11 . Until thereafter surrendered for transfer or exchange in the ordinary course, each outstanding stock certificate that, immediately prior to the Effective Time, evidenced shares of O'Reilly Common Stock shall be deemed and treated for all corporate purposes to evidence the ownership of the number of shares of Holdco Common Stock into which such shares of O'Reilly Common Stock were converted pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.9(a) and (b) hereof.
SURRENDER OF CERTIFICATES
SECTION 2.1 . O'Reilly shall use its reasonable efforts to cause the Holdco Common Stock received by O'Reilly shareholders in connection with the conversion of O'Reilly Common Stock to Holdco Common Stock pursuant to Section 1.9(a) and (b) hereof, to be approved for listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (""), at the Effective Time.
LISTING OF CERTAIN HOLDCO CAPITAL STOCK
NASDAQ
SECTION 2.2 . Prior to the Effective Time, MergerCo shall have prepared a Request For Tax Clearance Form and submitted such form to the Tax Clearance Unit of the Missouri Department of Revenue.
TAX CLEARANCE LETTER
SECTION 2.3 . On or prior to the Effective Time, Holdco will use reasonable efforts to procure a new CUSIP number for the Holdco Common Stock and for any other securities which so require new CUSIP numbers in connection with the Merger.
PROCUREMENT OF CUSIP NUMBERS
SECTION 3.1 . The obligations of each of the parties to this Merger Agreement to consummate the Merger and the transactions contemplated by this Merger Agreement shall be subject to fulfillment or waiver by the parties hereto of each of the following conditions:
CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
(a) Prior to the Effective Time, the Notification: Substitution Listing Event relating to the Merger submitted to NASDAQ and providing for the Holdco Common Stock to be traded on NASDAQ, in substitution for shares of O'Reilly Common Stock immediately following the Merger, shall have been approved by NASDAQ.
 
(b) Prior to the Effective Time, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special tax counsel to O'Reilly, shall render an opinion to the Board of Directors of O'Reilly, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to O'Reilly, on the basis of certain facts, representations and assumptions set forth in such opinion, to the effect that for United States federal income tax purposes no gain or loss will be recognized by the shareholders of O'Reilly as a result of the Merger. In rendering the opinion, such counsel may require and rely upon representations contained in certificates of officers of Holdco, MergerCo and O'Reilly.
(c) Prior to the Effective Time, no order, statute, rule, regulation, executive order, injunction, stay, decree, judgment or restraining order shall have been enacted, entered, promulgated or enforced by any court or governmental or regulatory authority or instrumentality which prohibits or makes illegal the consummation of the Merger or the transactions contemplated hereby.
(d) All consents, waivers, orders, approvals, authorizations, registrations, findings of suitability and action of any governmental entity or third party shall have been obtained or made, free of any condition.
(e) Prior to the effective time, MergerCo shall have received a tax clearance letter from the Tax Clearance Unit of the Missouri Department of Revenue.
(f) O'Reilly and Holdco shall have taken all necessary corporate action to ensure that, immediately prior to the Effective Time, the Holdco Charter (including with respect to authorized capital stock) and the Holdco Bylaws shall contain provisions identical to O'Reilly Charter and the O'Reilly Bylaws, respectively, in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than with respect to matters excepted by Section 351.448.1(4) of the MGBCL).
SECTION 4.1 . This Merger Agreement may be terminated and the Merger contemplated hereby may be abandoned at any time prior to the Effective Time by written consent of each of the parties to this Merger Agreement. In the event of such termination and abandonment, this Merger Agreement shall become void and none of O'Reilly, Holdco or MergerCo nor their respective shareholders, directors or officers shall have any liability with respect to such termination and abandonment.
TERMINATION
SECTION 4.2 . This Merger Agreement may be supplemented, amended or modified by the mutual written consent of the each of the parties to this Merger Agreement.
AMENDMENT
SECTION 4.3 . At any time prior to the Effective Time, the parties may waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties of any other party contained in
WAIVER
 
this Merger Agreement or in any document delivered pursuant to this Merger Agreement or waive compliance by such other party with any of the agreements or conditions contained in this Merger Agreement. Any agreement on the part of any party to any such waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed on behalf of such party. The failure of any party to this Merger Agreement to assert any of its rights under this Merger Agreement or otherwise shall not constitute a waiver of those rights.
SECTION 5.1 . THIS MERGER AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI, REGARDLESS OF THE LAWS THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE GOVERN UNDER APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
GOVERNING LAW
SECTION 5.2 . This Merger Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and to their respective successors and assigns.
BINDING EFFECT AND ASSIGNMENT
SECTION 5.3 . This Merger Agreement is not intended to and shall not be construed to, confer upon any person, other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, any rights or remedies hereunder.
THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES
SECTION 5.4 . This Merger Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but all of which shall constitute one and the same agreement.
COUNTERPARTS
SECTION 5.5 . This Merger Agreement, including the documents and instruments referred to herein, constitutes the entire agreement and supersedes all other prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, among the parties, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
ENTIRE MERGER AGREEMENT
SECTION 5.6 . When a reference is made in this Merger Agreement to an Article or Section, such reference shall be to an Article or Section of this Merger Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The headings contained in this Merger Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Merger Agreement.
INTERPRETATION
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Holdco, MergerCo and O'Reilly have caused this Merger Agreement to be executed as of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
Pursuant to the provisions of the General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri, the undersigned Corporation certifies the following:
 
Charter #: 01106576
The name under which it was originally organized was O'Reilly Holdings, Inc.
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
The name of this corporation is "O'Reilly Automotive, Inc."
 
Name and address to return filed document:
Name: Gallop, Johnson & Neuman, LC; Attn: J. Jones, R. Chuquimis
Address: 101 South Hanley, Suite 1700
City, State, and Zip Code: St. Louis, MO 63105
Corp. 44 (11/2008)
 
The number of outstanding shares of any class entitled to vote thereon as a class were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
In Affirmation thereof, the facts stated above are true and correct:
(The undersigned understands that false statements made in this filing are subject to the penalties provided under Section 575.040, RSMo)
 
Corp. 44 (11/2008)
Pursuant to the provisions of The General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri (the ""), Jeffrey L. Groves hereby executes the following Articles of Incorporation of said corporation. The name and physical business address of the incorporator at the time of incorporation was Jeffrey L. Groves, 233 South Patterson, Springfield, Missouri, 65802.
MGBCL
The name of this corporation is "O'Reilly Holdings, Inc."
The address of the corporation's registered office in the State of Missouri is 120 South Central Avenue, Clayton, Missouri, 63105 and the name of its registered agent is CT Corporation System.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1. Designation and Amount. The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 900,000.
 
Section 2. Dividends and Distributions.
 
 
 
 
Section 3. Voting Rights.
The holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
 
 
 
 
 
If the number which may be so elected at any special meeting does not amount to the required number, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have the right to make such increase in the number of directors as shall be necessary to permit the election by them of the required number. After the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect directors in any default period and during the continuance of such period, the number of directors shall not be increased or decreased except by vote of the holders of Preferred Stock as herein provided or pursuant to the rights of any equity securities ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
(iii) Unless the holders of Preferred Stock shall, during an existing default period, have previously exercised their right to elect directors, the Board of Directors may order, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding, irrespective of series, may request, the calling of a special meeting of the holders of Preferred Stock, which meeting shall thereupon be called by the President, a Vice-President or the Secretary of the Corporation. Notice of such meeting and of any annual meeting at which holders of Preferred Stock are entitled to vote pursuant to this Paragraph (C)(iii) shall be given to each holder of record of Preferred Stock by mailing a copy of such notice to him at his last address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation. Such meeting shall be called for a time not earlier than 20 days and not later than 60 days after such order or request or in default of the calling of such meeting within 60 days after such order or request, such meeting may be called on similar notice by any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Paragraph (C)(iii), no such special meeting shall be called during the period within 60 days immediately preceding the date fixed for the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
 
 
 
 
Section 4. Certain Restrictions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5. Reacquired Shares.
Any shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein.
Section 6. Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up.
 
 
 
 
Section 7. Consolidation, Merger, etc.
In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
Section 8. No Redemption.
The shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
Section 9. Ranking.
The Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any such series shall provide otherwise.
Section 10. Amendment.
At any time when any shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock are outstanding, neither the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation nor this Certificate of Designation shall be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority or more of the outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class.
Section 11. Fractional Shares.
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
The number of directors of the corporation shall be that number that is fixed by, or in the manner provided in, the Bylaws of the corporation; provided, however, that the number of directors of the corporation shall not be less than three. Any changes in the number of directors shall be reported to the Missouri Secretary of State within thirty (30) calendar days of such change. Directors need not be shareholders of the corporation. The Board of Directors shall be divided into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, which shall be designated Class I, Class II and Class III. The term of office the initial Class I directors shall expire at the annual meeting of shareholders held in 2012; the term of office of the initial Class II directors shall expire at the annual meeting of shareholders held in 2013; and the term of office of the initial Class III directors shall expire at the annual meeting of shareholders held in 2011. The directors elected to succeed those whose terms then expire shall be elected for a term of three (3) years expiring at the third succeeding annual meeting thereafter.
If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease in the number of directors shall be apportioned among the classes so that the number of directors in each class remains as nearly equal as possible. As used in these Articles of Incorporation, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the directors comprising all three classes into which the Board of Directors has been so divided. Subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of any class of capital stock of the corporation other than common stock then outstanding, any vacancies in the Board
 
of Directors that occur for any reason prior to the expiration of the term of office of the class in which the vacancy occurs, including vacancies that occur by reason of an increase in the number of directors, shall be filled only by the Board of Directors of the corporation, acting by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office (even if less than a quorum).
The corporation shall continue in perpetual existence or until dissolved and liquidated according to law.
The corporation is formed for the following purposes and shall have the following powers:
 
 
A special meeting of the shareholders may be called only by: (i) the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors; (ii) the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation; or (iii) the Chief Operating Officer of the corporation. At such special meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted, and only such proposals shall be acted upon, as were specified in the notice thereof.
The provisions of Section 351.407 or any other section of The General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri limiting the voting rights of control shares of public corporations that are acquired in a control share acquisition shall not apply to control share acquisitions of shares of the corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors shall have power to adopt, repeal, or amend the By-laws of this corporation and to adopt new or additional By-laws, subject however, to the paramount right of the holders or common stock to limit or divest such power of the Board of Directors, to such extent and for such periods as the holders of common stock at any regular or special meeting shall determine.
No director of the corporation shall be personally liable to the corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty by such director as a director; provided, however, that this Article XI shall not eliminate or limit the liability of a director to the extent provided by applicable law (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its shareholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in subjective good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under section 351.345 of the General Corporation Law of Missouri, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. No amendment to or repeal of this Article XI shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director prior to such amendment or repeal.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed these Articles of Incorporation on behalf of the Corporation this day of December, 2010.
20th
 

Exhibit 3.2
The principal office of the corporation in the State of Missouri shall be located in Springfield, Missouri. The corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Missouri, as the business of the corporation may require from time to time.
The registered office of the corporation required by The General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri to be maintained in the State of Missouri may be, but need not be, identical with the principal office in the State of Missouri, and the address of the registered office may be changed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 1. . The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first Sunday in May in each year to elect directors and transact such other business as may come before the meeting. If the day fixed for the annual meeting shall be a legal holiday, such meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day. If the election of directors shall not be held on the day designated herein for any annual meeting, or at any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors shall cause the election to be held at a special meeting of the shareholders as soon thereafter as may be convenient for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before a special meeting of shareholders.
Annual Meeting
Section 2. . Special meetings of the shareholders, unless otherwise prescribed by statute, may be called only by the Board of Directors, pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, or a President of the corporation. The person or persons requesting a special meeting of the shareholders shall deliver to the Secretary of the corporation a written request stating the purpose of the proposed meeting. Upon such request, subject to any requirements or limitations imposed by the corporation's Articles of Incorporation, as they may be amended from time to time (the "Articles"), by these Bylaws, or by law, it shall be the duty of the Secretary to call a special meeting of the shareholders, to be held at such time as is specified in the request.
Special Meetings
Section 3. . Every meeting of the shareholders, whether an annual or a special meeting, shall be held at ten o'clock a.m. at the principal office of the corporation or at such other place and time as is specified by proper notice from the Board of Directors with respect to an annual meeting, or by the Board of Directors or President requesting a special meeting.
Place and Hour of Meeting
Section 4. . Written or printed notice stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered not less than ten (10) nor more than fifty (50) days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail, by or at the direction of a President
Notice of Meetings
 
or the Secretary to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail addressed to the shareholder at his address as it appears on the records of the corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. The attendance of a shareholder at any meeting shall constitute the waiver of notice of that meeting except in the case of attendance for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Section 5. . The Board of Directors of the corporation may close its stock transfer books for a period not exceeding seventy (70) days preceding the date of any meeting of shareholders, or the date for the payment of any dividend or for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of shares shall be effective; or, in lieu thereof, may fix in advance a date, not exceeding seventy (70) days preceding the date of any meeting of shareholders, or the date for the payment of any dividend or for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of shares shall be effective, as the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, and any adjournment of the meeting, or shareholders entitled to receive payment of any such dividend or to receive any such allotment of rights, or to exercise rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of shares; and the shareholders of record on such date of closing the transfer books, or on the record date so fixed, shall be the shareholders entitled to notice of and to vote at, such meeting, and any adjournment thereof, or to receive payment of such dividend, or to receive such allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the date of closing of the transfer books or the record date so fixed. If the Board of Directors shall not have closed the transfer books or set a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, a meeting of shareholders, only the shareholders who are shareholders of record at the close of business on the 20th day preceding the date of the meeting shall be entitled to notice of, and to vote at, the meeting, and any adjournment of the meeting; except that, if prior to the meeting written waivers of notice of the meeting are signed and delivered to the corporation by all of the shareholders of record at the time the meeting is convened, only the shareholders who are shareholders of record at the time the meeting is convened shall be entitled to vote at the meeting, and any adjournment of the meeting.
Closing of Transfer Books or Fixing of Record Date
Section 6. . At least ten (10) days before each meeting of shareholders, the officer or agent having charge of the transfer book for shares of the corporation shall make a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting, arranged in alphabetical order with the address of, and the number of shares held by, each shareholder, which list, for a period of not less than ten (10) days prior to such meeting, shall be kept on file at the registered office of the corporation and shall be subject to inspection by any shareholder at any time during usual business hours. Such list shall also be produced and kept open at the time and place of the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any shareholder during the whole time of the meeting. The original share ledger or transfer book, or a duplicate thereof kept in the State of Missouri, shall be prima facie evidence as to who are the shareholders entitled to examine such list or share ledger or transfer book or to vote at any meeting of shareholders.
Voting Lists
Section 7. . A majority of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of
Quorum
 
the shareholders; provided, that if less than a majority of the outstanding shares are represented at said meeting, a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn the meeting, without further notice, to a date not longer than ninety (90) days from the date originally set for such meeting. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally scheduled.
Section 8. . At all meetings of shareholders, a shareholder may vote in person or by proxy executed in writing by the shareholder or by his duly authorized attorney-in-fact. Such proxy shall be filed with the Secretary of the corporation before or at the time of the meeting. No proxy shall be valid after eleven months from the date of its execution, unless otherwise provided in the proxy.
Proxies
Section 9. . Each outstanding share of common stock shall be entitled to one vote upon each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of shareholders. Each outstanding share of preferred stock, if any, shall have the voting rights provided in the Articles or, to the extent permitted by the Articles, designated by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Provided a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented at a meeting and entitled to vote shall be the act of the shareholders unless the vote of a greater number of shares is required by the corporation's Articles of Incorporation, by these Bylaws or by applicable law.
Voting of Shares
Section 10. . Shares standing in the name of another corporation, domestic or foreign, may be voted by such officer, agent, or proxy as the Bylaws of such corporation may prescribe, or, in the absence of such provision, as the Board of Directors of such corporation may determine.
Voting of Shares by Certain Holders
Shares standing in the name of a partnership or unincorporated association may be voted by such person duly authorized by the terms of the partnership agreement or articles of the unincorporated association.
Shares standing in the name of a deceased person may be voted by his administrator or personal representative, either in person or by proxy. Shares standing in the name of a guardian, curator, or trustee may be voted by such fiduciary, either in person or by proxy, but no guardian, curator or trustee shall be entitled, as such fiduciary, to vote shares held by him without a transfer of such shares into his name.
Shares standing in the name of a receiver may be voted by such receiver, and shares held by or under the control of a receiver may be voted by such receiver without the transfer thereof into his name if authority so to do be contained in an appropriate order of the court by which such receiver was appointed.
A shareholder whose shares are pledged shall be entitled to vote such shares until the shares have been transferred into the name of the pledges, and thereafter the pledgee shall be entitled to vote the shares so transferred so long as such pledgee remains the record holder thereof.
Section 11. . Any action which may be taken at a meeting of the shareholders may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by all of the shareholders entitled to vote with respect to the subject matter thereof.
Action Without a Meeting
 
Section 12. . At any annual meeting of shareholders only such business shall be conducted, and only such proposals shall be considered, as shall have been properly brought before the meeting by the Board of Directors or by a shareholder of record who has complied with the procedures set forth in this Section 12. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a proposal to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given notice (as defined in this sentence, "Timely Notice"), either by personal delivery or by United states mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the corporation not less than sixty (60) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the meeting; provided, however, that if less than seventy (70) days notice or prior public disclosure of the date of such meeting has been given or made to shareholders, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the earlier of (1) the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or (2) the day on which public disclosure of the meeting was made. Said Timely Notice: shall set forth as to each matter proposed by a shareholder to be brought before an annual meeting: (a) a brief description of the proposal desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for considering the proposal at the meeting; (b) the name and address of record of the shareholder making the proposal and any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be in support thereof; (c) the class and number of shares of the capital stock that are beneficially owned by the shareholder on the date of the shareholder notice and by any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting the proposal on the date of the shareholder notice; and (d) any material interest of the shareholder in the proposal. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting of the shareholders except as has been properly brought before the meeting in accordance with this Section 12. The presiding officer of an annual meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine at the meeting that a shareholder proposal was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedure, and if he should make that determination, he shall so declare at the meeting and the proposal shall not be considered.
Procedures for Bringing Business Before an Annual Meeting
Section 13. . Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures hereinafter set forth in this Section 13 shall be eligible for election as directors of the corporation. Subject to the rights, if any, of holders of any class of capital stock of the corporation (other than its common stock) then outstanding, nominations for the election of directors may be made only by affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors or by any shareholder of record entitled to vote generally in the election of directors who complies with the procedures set forth in this section 13. A shareholder who desires to nominate one or more persons for election as directors shall deliver Timely Notice (as defined in Section 12 of this Article II) of the shareholder's intent to make such nomination or nominations, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the corporation. Such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of record of the shareholder who intends to make the nomination; (b) the class and number of shares of the capital stock that are beneficially owned by the shareholder on the date of such notice; (c) the name, age, business and residential addresses, and principal occupation or employment of each proposed nominee; (d) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the shareholder and each nominee, and other arrangements or understandings known to
Procedures for Nominating Directors
 
the shareholder, pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the shareholder; (e) any other information regarding each proposed nominee that would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and (f) the written consent of each proposed nominee to being so named and to serve as a director of the corporation if elected. The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish additional information in order to determine whether the proposed nominee is qualified to serve as a director of the corporation. The presiding officer of a meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine at the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedure, and if he should make that determination, he shall so declare at the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
Section 1. . The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by its Board of Directors.
General Powers
Section 2. . The number of directors of the corporation shall be nine (9). There shall be three (3) classes of directors, as set forth in the Articles, and each class shall be comprised of three (3) directors. Each class shall serve for a three (3) year term expiring one (1) year after the expiration of the term of the immediately preceding class, so that the term of one (1) class shall expire each year. Each director shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.
Number, Election and Term
Section 3. . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held quarterly, one of which meetings (the "Annual Meeting") shall occur immediately after the adjournment of each annual meeting of the shareholders; and no notice of any of such quarterly meetings, other than the promulgation at the Annual Meeting of the schedule thereof, shall be required in connection therewith in order that such quarterly meetings be duly called and validly held. The Board of Directors may provide, by resolution, the time and place, either within or without the State of Missouri, for the holding of additional regular meetings with notice of such resolution to all directors. Any business may be transacted at a regular meeting.
Regular Meetings
Section 4. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the request of the Chairman of the Board, a President, or any two directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix any place in the United States, either within or without the State of Missouri, as the place for holding any special meeting of the Board of Directors called by them.
Special Meetings
Section 5. . Notice of any special meeting shall be given at least three (3) days prior to the date upon which such meeting is to be held. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be delivered to each director in person, by mail to his business address, or by telecopy, provided, however, that if the designated meeting place is without the State of Missouri, an additional five (5) days notice shall be given. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail in a sealed envelope so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid. Any director may waive notice of any meeting. The attendance of a
Notice
 
director at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except in the case of attendance for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting.
Section 6. . A majority of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, provided that if less than a majority of the directors are present at said meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for such meeting.
Quorum
Section 7. . The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting of the directors at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors, unless the act of a greater number is required by the Articles, by these Bylaws, or by law. Directors may participate in any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee of the Board of Directors, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment whereby all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting in this manner shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Manner of Acting
Section 8. . Any director of the corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Board of Directors, a President, or the Secretary of the corporation. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if no time be specified, upon receipt thereof by the Board of Directors or one of the above-named officers; and, unless specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation
Section 9. . A vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors for any reason shall be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even if less than a quorum. A director elected to fill a vacancy shall be elected for the unexpired term of his predecessor in office. A director elected to fill a vacancy created by reason of an increase in the number of directors may, in the discretion of the Board of Directors, be elected for a term continuing only until the next election of directors by the shareholders.
Vacancies
Section 10. . By resolution of the Board of Directors, each director may be paid his expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof and may be paid a stated salary as director or a fixed sum for attendance at each such meeting or both. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Compensation
Section 11. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors duly called upon proper notice, may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by all of the directors entitled to vote with respect to the subject matter thereof. Any such consent signed by all of the directors shall have the same effect as a unanimous vote at a meeting of the Board of Directors. This provision shall apply to committees of the Board of Directors, which can act with the unanimous consent of all committee members.
Action Without a Meeting
 
Section 12. . The Board of Directors may, by resolution or resolutions passed by a majority of the entire board, designate two or more directors to constitute a committee. Any such committee, to the extent provided in said resolution or resolutions, may have and exercise all of the authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the corporation; but the designation of any such committee and the delegation thereto of authority shall not operate to relieve the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, of any responsibility imposed upon the Board or a director by the General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri.
Committees of Directors
Section 1. . The officers of the corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President or Presidents as may be determined by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 6 of this Article IV, one or more Vice-Presidents (the number thereof to be determined by the Board of Directors and any one or more of which may be designated as "Executive" or "Senior" Vice President or by any other designation), a Treasurer, a Secretary and such other officers as may be elected in accordance with the provisions of this Article. The Board of Directors, by resolution, may create the offices of one or more Assistant Treasurers and Assistant secretaries, all of whom shall be elected by the Board of Directors. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person, except the offices of President and Secretary.
Number
Each of the President and Chief Executive Officer and the President and Chief Operating Officer, acting in his capacity as President, shall have the complete authority to act on behalf of the corporation and to bind the corporation that is conferred upon either President of the corporation by these Bylaws or attributed to the president of a corporation by applicable law. All officers and agents of the corporation, as between themselves and the corporation, shall have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the property and affairs of the corporation as may be provided in the Bylaws, or, in the absence of such provisions, as may be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 2. . The officers of the corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of shareholders. If the election of officers shall not be hold at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as practicable. Each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign or shall have been removed in the manner hereinafter provided.
Election and Term of Office
Section 3. . Any officer or agent may be removed with or without cause by the Board of Directors whenever, in its judgment, the best interests of the corporation will be served thereby. Election or appointment of an officer or agent shall not of itself create contract rights and no cause for removal need be specified in any Board resolution.
Removal
 
Section 4. . A vacancy in any office for any reason, including but not limited to death, resignation, removal, or disqualification, may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term.
Vacancies
Section 5. . The Chairman of the Board shall have general authority for the implementation of such corporate policy and long-range corporate objectives as directed by the Board of Directors of the corporation and shall perform such other duties as are incident to his office and are properly required of him by the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors. He shall be an executive officer of the corporation and shall have full authority with respect to the signing and execution of instruments and certificates for shares of the corporation.
The Chairman of the Board
Section 6. . The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer of the corporation. The duties of the Chief Executive Officer shall be to serve as the principal executive and administrative officer of the corporation. The duties of the Chief Operating Officer shall be to serve as the principal officer responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, operations, and affairs of the corporation. The office of the President may be held by two persons if the Board of Directory shall so determine. The President, or either President if the same person does not serve as both the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer, may sign, with the Secretary or Treasurer or any other proper officer thereunto authorized by the Board of Directors, certificates for shares of the corporation, and may execute any deed, mortgage, bond, contract, or other instrument the execution of which has been authorized by the Board of Directors, except in cases where such signing or execution shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Director's or by these Bylaws to some other officer or agent of the corporation, or shall be required by law to be otherwise signed or executed; and in general, and, if appropriate, in cooperation with the Chief Operating Officer or the Chief Executive Officer, as the case may be, shall perform all duties incident to the office of President and such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors from time to time.
The President
Section 7. . In the event of the death, inability or refusal to act of the President or, if there are two Presidents, in the event of the death, inability or refusal to act of both of the Presidents, first the Executive Vice-President, then the Senior Vice President, and then the Vice President or Vice Presidents (in the event there be more than one Vice-President, the Vice-Presidents in the order designated at the time of their election, or in the absence of any designation, then in the order of their election) shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. Any Vice-President may sign, with the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, or with the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, certificates for shares of the corporation; and shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by either President or by the Board of Directors.
The Vice-Presidents
Section 8. . If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such sum and with such surety or sureties as the Board of Directors shall determine. The Treasurer shall: (a) have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds and securities of the corporation; (b) receive and give receipts for moneys due and payable to the corporation from any source whatsoever, and deposit
The Treasurer
 
all such moneys in the name of the corporation in such bank, trust companies or other depositories as shall be selected in accordance with the provision of Article V of these Bylaws; and (c) in general perform all the duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the President or by the Board of Directors.
Section 9. . The Secretary shall: (a) keep the minutes of the shareholders, and of the Board of Directors meetings in one or more books provided for that purpose; (b) see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these By-laws or as required by law; (c) be custodian of the corporate records and of the seal of the corporation and see that the seal of the corporation is affixed to all documents the execution of which on behalf of the corporation under its seal is duly authorized and required; (d) keep a register of the address of each shareholder which shall be furnished to the Secretary by such shareholder; (e) sign with the President, or a Vice-President, certificates for shares of the corporation, the issuance of which shall have been authorized by resolution of the Board of Directors; (f) have general charge of the stock transfer books of the corporation; and (g) in general perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the President or by the Board of Directors, or as are prescribed in these Bylaws.
The Secretary
Section 10. . Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries, if any, shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Treasurer or the Secretary, respectively, or by the President or the Board of Directors. Any Assistant Treasurers shall, if required by the Board of Directors, give bonds for the faithful discharge of their duties in such sums and with such sureties as the Board of Directors shall determine.
Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries
Section 11. . The Board of Directors may from time to time create the position of Chairman Emeritus, and may fill such position for such time as the Board of Directors deems proper. The Chairman Emeritus shall perform such duties as may be assigned by the Board of Directors from time to time. The Chairman Emeritus shall be entitled to receive such compensation as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors. The occurrence of any event which in the case of a director would create a vacancy on the Board of Directors shall be deemed to create a vacancy in the position of Chairman Emeritus. The Board of Directors may provide that the position shall terminate upon the death of the individual initially appointed to the position and may terminate the position at any time.
Chairman Emeritus
Section 12. . The salaries of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, and no officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary by reason of the fact that he is also a director of the corporation.
Salaries
Section 1. . The Board of Directors may authorize one or more officers or agents to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Contracts
 
Section 2. . No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the corporation and no evidences of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Loans
Section 3. . All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the corporation and in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Checks, Drafts, and Similar Instruments
Section 4. . All funds of the corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as the Board of Directors may select.
Deposits
Section 1. . Every holder of stock in the corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate, in any form approved by the Board of Directors, certifying the number and class of shares of stock in the corporation owned by the shareholder, signed by the Chairman, a President, or a Vice President and by the Secretary or Treasurer or an Assistant Secretary or Assistant Treasurer of the corporation and sealed with the seal of the corporation. If the certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent other than the corporation or its employee, or by a registrar other than the corporation or its employee, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile signature, or may be engraved or printed. In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed on the certificate shall have ceased to be an officer, transfer agent, or registrar before the certificate is issued, the certificate may nevertheless be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if such person were an officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue.
Stock Certificates
Section 2. . The shares of stock of the corporation shall be transferable only upon its books by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives. Upon transfer, certificates evidencing ownership by the transferor of the shares being transferred shall be surrendered to the corporation by the delivery thereof to the person in charge of the stock and transfer books and ledgers, or to such other persons as the Board of Directors may designate, by whom they shall be canceled and certificates evidencing ownership by the transferee of the shares being transferred shall thereupon be issued. Except as otherwise expressly provided by the statutes of the State of Missouri, the corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the absolute owner thereof for all purposes and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any legal, equitable, or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person whether or not it or they shall have express or other notice thereof.
Transfer of Stock
 
Section 3. . The holder of any shares of stock of the corporation shall immediately notify the corporation and its transfer agents and registrars, if any, of any loss or destruction of the certificates evidencing ownership of such shares. The corporation may issue a new certificate in place of any certificate theretofore issued by it which is alleged to have been lost or destroyed and the Board of Directors may require the owner of the lost or destroyed certificate or the owner's legal representative to give the corporation a bond in a sum and in form approved by the Board of Directors, and with a surety or sureties which the Board of Directors finds satisfactory, to indemnify the corporation and its transfer agents and registrars, if any, against any claim or liability that may be asserted against or incurred by it or any transfer agent or registrar on account of the alleged loss or destruction of any certificate or the issuance of a replacement certificate. A replacement certificate may be issued without requiring any bond when, in the judgment of the Board of Directors, it is proper so to do. The Board of Directors may delegate to any officer or officers of the corporation any of the powers and authorities contained in this section.
Lost or Destroyed Certificates
Section 4. . The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents or transfer clerks and one or more registrars which may be banks, trust companies, or other financial institutions located within or without the State of Missouri; may define the authority of such transfer agents and registrars of transfers; may require all stock certificates to bear the signature of a transfer agent or a registrar of transfers, or both; and may change or remove any such transfer agent or registrar of transfers.
Transfer Agents and Registrars
The fiscal year of the corporation shall be established from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors may from time to time, declare, and the corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and the Articles.
The Board of Directors shall provide a corporate seal which shall be in the form of a circle and shall have inscribed thereon the name of the corporation and the words, "Corporate Seal, Missouri."
 
Whenever any notice is required to be given under the provisions of these Bylaws or under the provisions of The General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri or under the provisions of the Articles, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice.
These bylaws may be altered, amended, or repealed and new bylaws may be adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, provided that no bylaw may be adopted or amended so as to be inconsistent with the Articles, or the Constitution or laws of the State of Missouri.
Whenever a word in the masculine gender is used in these Bylaws it shall be understood to be in or include the feminine gender when appropriate under the circumstances. These Bylaws are to be construed to be consistent with applicable law, and if such construction is not possible then the invalidity of a Bylaw or portion thereof shall not affect the validity of the other Bylaws of the corporation, which shall remain in full force and effect.
 


