FILE:ORLY/ORLY-8K-20110506172057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
. -
Item 5
02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On May 3, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. (the "Company") implemented stock ownership requirements for certain officers and senior managers of the Company. The Board believes stock ownership requirements further align the interests of the Company's management with those of its shareholders. The stock ownership requirements are identified below:
 
 
 
The officers and senior managers listed above must comply with and maintain the stock ownership requirements within five years of May 3, 2011, the effective date of the requirements. Shares included in the determination of the stock ownership requirements are identified below:
 
 
 
 
 
If any of the officers or senior managers listed above fails to comply with these ownership requirements within the specified time period, such person will be required to hold 50% of the net after-tax shares received upon the exercise of any stock option and will be subject to restrictions on selling shares of the Company. The requirements will no longer apply to any officer or senior manager who reaches the age of 62 and, in addition, the Board may waive the requirements for any officer or senior manager at its sole discretion.
Item 5.07 - Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
On May 3, 2011, the Company held its 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting"). Of the 140,849,493 shares entitled to vote at such meeting, 127,024,175 shares were present at the meeting in person or by proxy. At the Annual Meeting, David E. O'Reilly, Jay D. Burchfield and Paul R. Lederer were elected as Class III Directors of the Company, to hold office until the annual meeting of the Company's shareholders in 2014 and until his successor has been duly elected and qualified. The shareholders also approved, by a non-binding, advisory vote, the 2010 compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers, and voted for the selection, by a non-binding, advisory vote, of conducting future non-binding, advisory votes on executive compensation every year (annually). Additionally, the shareholders voted for the ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young, LLP, as the Company's independent auditors for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. The tabulation of the voting results are identified below:
 
 
The individuals listed below are Directors whose term of office continued after the meeting:
 
 
 
 
Following the Annual Meeting, the Board reviewed the voting results and, in response to the vote by the shareholders along with other factors, approved a resolution to hold future non-binding, advisory votes on executive compensation every year until the next required non-binding, advisory vote on the frequency of this item.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


