FILE:ORLY/ORLY-8K-20110304163025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
On February 28, 2011, John Murphy, a member of the Board of Directors of OReilly Automotive, Inc. (the Company), established a plan in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), for the trading of the Companys common stock.  The plan provides for option exercises and subsequent sales of specified share amounts at specific market prices, subject to specified limitations.  The plan was established for the purpose of facilitating the exercise and subsequent sale of stock options with a seven-year contractual life that are due to expire in April of 2013 and 2014.  The plan was established during the Companys unrestricted trading window and at a time when Mr. Murphy was not in possession of material, non-pub lic information about the Company.  Mr. Murphy has informed the Company that he will publicly disclose, as required by federal securities laws, any option exercises and stock sales made under this plan.
On March 1, 2011, Michael D. Swearengin, Senior Vice-President of Merchandise of the Company, established a plan in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act, for the trading of the Companys common stock.  The plan provides for option exercises and subsequent sales of specified share amounts at specific market prices, subject to specified limitations.  The plan was established for the purpose of facilitating the exercise and subsequent sale of stock options with a ten-year contractual life that are due to expire in January of 2012.  The plan was established during the Companys unrestricted trading window and at a time when Mr. Swearengin was not in possession of material, non-public information about the Company.  Mr. Swearengin has informed the Company that he will publi cly disclose, as required by federal securities laws, any option exercises and stock sales made under this plan.
On March 2, 2011, Charles H. OReilly, Jr., a member of the Board of Directors of the Company, established a plan in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act, for the trading of the Companys common stock.  The plan provides for the sales of specified share amounts indirectly owned by Mr. OReilly at specific market prices, subject to specified limitations.  The plan was established for the purpose of diversifying Mr. OReillys investment portfolio.  The plan was established during the Companys unrestricted trading window and at a time when Mr. OReilly was not in possession of material, non-public information about the Company.  Mr. OReilly has informed the Company that he will publicly disclose, as required by federal secu rities laws, any stock sales made under this plan.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


