FILE:ORLY/ORLY-8K-20110909172818.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Agreement Amendment
On September 9, 2011 (the "Amendment Date"), O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. (the "Company") entered into Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer, Swing Line Lender and a Lender, and the other lenders party thereto (the "Amendment"), which amends the Credit Agreement dated as of January 14, 2011, by and among the Company, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender, L/C Issuer and a Lender, and the other lenders party thereto (as amended by the Amendment, the "Credit Agreement").
In connection with the Amendment, the aggregate commitments have been reduced and now consist of $660 million senior unsecured revolving credit commitments, with a $200 million sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit and a $75 million sub-limit for swing line borrowings. The Credit Agreement also provides for an uncommitted incremental facility that permits the Company, subject to certain conditions, to increase the commitments under the new senior unsecured revolving credit facility by up to $200 million.
The Amendment provides for, among other things, an extension of the maturity date of the credit facility to September 9, 2016, and a decrease in the interest rate margins applicable to loans made under the Credit Agreement and the facility fee paid on the amount of the commitments thereunder. Loans made under the Credit Agreement (other than swing line loans) will now bear interest, at the Company's option, at either a Base Rate (as set forth in the Credit Agreement) or a Eurodollar Rate (as set forth in the Credit Agreement) plus a margin that will vary from 0.000% to 0.600% in the case of Base Rate loans and 0.975% to 1.600% in the case of Eurodollar Rate loans, in each case, based upon the better of the ratings assigned to the Company's debt by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services. Borrowings of swing line loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a Base Rate plus the margin described above for Base Rate loans. In addition, under the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Company pays a facility fee on the aggregate amount of the commitments in an amount equal to a percentage of such commitments. That percentage has been reduced pursuant to the Amendment and will now vary from 0.150% to 0.400% based upon the better of the ratings assigned to the Company's debt by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services.
The Company's obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by its subsidiaries, other than foreign subsidiaries to the extent adverse tax consequences would result from such guaranty and certain immaterial subsidiaries. As of the Amendment Date, all of the Company's subsidiaries are guarantors under the Credit Agreement.
The Amendment does not change the covenants or events of default applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries.
As of the date of the Amendment, there were no outstanding borrowings under the credit facility.
In addition to the specific agreements and arrangements described above, affiliates of some of the parties to the Credit Agreement and their respective affiliates have provided and may in the future provide certain financial advisory, investment banking and commercial banking services in the ordinary course of business for the Company, its subsidiaries and certain of their respective affiliates, for which they have received or will receive customary fees and expenses in connection with the performance of such services.
The foregoing description of the terms of the Credit Agreement and the Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, attached as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filing dated January 11, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference, and to the Amendment, attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On September 9, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the successful completion of the Amendment. The full text of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
On September 9, 2011, following the finalization and execution of the contemplated Non-Prosecution Agreement among the Company, CSK Auto Corporation ("CSK") and the Department of Justice ("DOJ"), the Company paid the previously-disclosed one-time monetary penalty of $20.9 million relating to the DOJ investigation into CSK's pre-acquisition accounting practices.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 9, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
This (this "") dated as of September 9, 2011, is made by and among , a Missouri corporation (the ""), , a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States, in its capacity as Administrative Agent for the Lenders (this and each other capitalized term used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning given to such term in the Credit Agreement (as defined below)), the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and each of the Lenders signatory hereto.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement
O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
Borrower
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and the Lenders have entered into that certain Credit Agreement dated as of January 14, 2011 (as hereby amended and as from time to time hereafter further amended, modified, supplemented, restated, or amended and restated, the ""), pursuant to which the Lenders and the L/C Issuer have made available to the Borrower a revolving credit facility; and
WHEREAS
Credit Agreement
, the Borrower has advised the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and the Lenders that it desires to amend certain provisions of the Credit Agreement as set forth below and the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and the Lenders signatory hereto are willing to effect such amendment on the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement;
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the premises and further valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
1. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
.
Amendments to Credit Agreement
(a) The existing definitions in of the Credit Agreement for the terms "Applicable Rate" and "Maturity Date" are deleted in their entirety and the following new definitions for such terms are added in lieu thereof:
Section 1.01
"" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Borrower's Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Borrower's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt; that (a) if the respective Debt Ratings issued by the foregoing rating agencies differ by one level, then the Pricing Level for the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 5 being the lowest); (b) if there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, then the Pricing Level that is one level lower than the Pricing Level of the higher Debt Rating shall apply; (c) if the Borrower has only one Debt Rating, the Pricing Level for such Debt Rating shall apply; and (d) if the Borrower does not have any Debt Rating, then Pricing Level 5 shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
As of the Closing Date, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to . Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective, in the case of an upgrade, during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement thereof and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next change in Applicable Rate and, in the case of a downgrade, during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement thereof and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next change in Applicable Rate.
Section 4.01(a)(vii)
"" means September 9, 2016; , , that if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
provided
however
(b) The existing to the Credit Agreement is replaced in its entirety with new attached hereto.
Schedule 2.01
Schedule 2.01
 
2. The Commitments of each Lender under the Credit Agreement immediately prior to the effectiveness of this Agreement that is not a party hereto (each, a "") shall be deemed terminated on the date hereof. Each Lender party hereto hereby (a) confirms its Commitment as set forth on attached hereto and made a part of the Credit Agreement and (b) agrees that its Applicable Percentage shall be deemed adjusted as set forth thereon as of the date hereof for all purposes of the Credit Agreement, including, without limitation, the effect of any such adjustment in its Applicable Percentage on its participation obligations with respect to issued and outstanding Letters of Credit and outstanding Swing Line Loans, if any.
.
Consent to Reallocation of Commitments
Non-Consenting Lender
Schedule 2.01
3. To the extent necessary to permit the implementation of this Agreement, each Lender party hereto hereby waives any requirement in the Credit Agreement that any payment in respect of any principal or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations or in Swing Line Loans held by it, or the termination and/or reduction of any Commitments, be made on a pro rata basis or in accordance with the Applicable Percentages in effect immediately prior to the effectiveness of this Agreement. All requirements for prior notification of borrowings or prepayments of Loans or terminations and/or reductions of Commitments are hereby waived with respect to all borrowings, prepayments and Commitment terminations and/or reductions contemplated by this Agreement.
.
Waiver of Pro Rata Treatment
4. This Agreement and the amendments to the Credit Agreement herein provided shall become effective upon satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
.
Effectiveness; Conditions Precedent
(a) the Administrative Agent shall have received each of the following documents or instruments in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent:
(i) executed counterparts of this Agreement, each of which shall be originals or telecopies or other electronic imaging transmission (e.g. "pdf" via e-mail) (followed promptly by originals), duly executed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders;
(ii) executed counterparts (each of which shall be originals or telecopies or other electronic imaging transmission (e.g. "pdf" via e-mail) (followed promptly by originals)), of an acknowledgement and consent of the Guarantors ("") whereby each Guarantor acknowledges and consents to the amendments to the Credit Agreement set forth herein and reaffirms its obligations under the Guaranty after giving effect to this Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, duly executed by each Guarantor;
Acknowledgement and Consent of Guarantors
(iii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of each Loan Party as
 
the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement;
(iv) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that each Loan Party is duly organized or formed, validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in its jurisdiction of organization;
(v) favorable opinions of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, counsel to the Loan Parties, and Arizona and Missouri local counsel to certain Loan Parties, in each case, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, addressing such matters as reasonably requested by and in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel; and
(b) all Obligations owing to any Non-Consenting Lender in respect of the principal amount of Loans and accrued and unpaid interest or fees owed to such Non-Consenting Lender as of the date hereof shall have been paid to such Non-Consenting Lender, and such Non-Consenting Lender shall have consented to the termination of its status as a Lender under the Credit Agreement upon the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(c) all fees and expenses required, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement to be paid by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders (including the fees and expenses of McGuireWoods LLP, as counsel to the Administrative Agent) to the extent such fees have been invoiced on or prior to the date hereof; that such fees and expenses shall be limited to $40,000.
Section 10.04
provided
5. In order to induce the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into this Agreement, the Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders as follows:
.
Representations and Warranties
(a) The representations and warranties made by each Loan Party in of the Credit Agreement and in each of the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date;
Article V
(b) Since the date of the most recent financial reports of the Borrower delivered pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, there has been no event or circumstance either individually or in the aggregate that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
Section 6.01
(c) The Persons executing the Acknowledgement and Consent of Guarantors constitute all Persons who are required to be Guarantors pursuant to the terms of the
 
Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including without limitation all Persons who became Subsidiaries (other than an Immaterial Subsidiary) or were otherwise required to become Guarantors after the Closing Date pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, and each of such Persons has become and remains a party to the Guaranty as a Guarantor;
Section 6.12
(d) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Borrower, and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law;
(e) The Acknowledgement and Consent of Guarantors has been duly authorized and executed by each Guarantor, and simultaneously with the delivery of this Agreement, will have been duly delivered by each Guarantor, and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each Guarantor, enforceable against each Guarantor in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law;
(f) No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
6. This Agreement, together with all the Loan Documents (collectively, the ""), sets forth the entire understanding and agreement of the parties hereto in relation to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior negotiations and agreements among the parties relating to such subject matter. No promise, condition, representation or warranty, express or implied, not set forth in the Relevant Documents shall bind any party hereto, and no such party has relied on any such promise, condition, representation or warranty. Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that, except as otherwise expressly stated in the Relevant Documents, no representations, warranties or commitments, express or implied, have been made by any party to the other in relation to the subject matter hereof or thereof. None of the terms or conditions of this Agreement may be changed, modified, waived or canceled orally or otherwise, except in writing and in accordance with of the Credit Agreement.
.
Entire Agreement
Relevant Documents
Section 10.01
7. Except as hereby specifically amended, modified or supplemented, the Credit Agreement and all other Loan Documents are hereby confirmed and ratified in all respects and shall be and remain in full force and effect according to their respective terms.
.
Full Force and Effect of Agreement
8. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original as against any party whose signature appears thereon, and all of which shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
.
Counterparts
 
9. This Agreement shall in all respects be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York and shall be further subject to the provisions of of the Credit Agreement.
.
Governing Law
Section 10.14
10. Should any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement be determined to be illegal or unenforceable as to one or more of the parties hereto, all other provisions nevertheless shall remain effective and binding on the parties hereto.
.
Enforceability
11. On or after the date hereof, all references in any of the Loan Documents to the "Credit Agreement" shall mean the Credit Agreement, as amended by this Agreement.
.
References
12. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and each of the Lenders, and their respective successors, legal representatives, and assignees to the extent such assignees are permitted assignees as provided in of the Credit Agreement.
.
Successors and Assigns
Section 10.06
 
, the parties hereto have caused this instrument to be made, executed and delivered by their duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2.01
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
, September 9, 2011 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE)  O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. ("O'Reilly" or "the Company") (Nasdaq: ORLY), a leading retailer in the automotive aftermarket industry, announced today that it successfully completed an amendment to its senior unsecured credit agreement on Friday, September 9, 2011. The amendment provides the Company with lower interest rate margins on its loans and a lower facility fee applicable to its commitments, extends the maturity of the Company's credit facility and improves the Company's overall capital structure.
SPRINGFIELD, Mo.
"We are excited about the opportunity to amend our unsecured credit facility, taking advantage of the current, positive interest rate environment," stated Tom McFall, Executive Vice-President of Finance and CFO of O'Reilly. "This amendment will reduce our interest expense related to ongoing commitment fees and will have a positive impact on our vendor financing programs, as we continue to work with our vendors to reduce our net inventory investment. While we have not yet borrowed under the facility, this amendment will also reduce our interest expense on any future borrowings."
Key highlights of the Company's credit facility Amendment are identified below:
 
 
 
About O'Reilly
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc., is one of the largest specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States, serving both the do-it-yourself and professional service provider markets. Founded in 1957 by the O'Reilly family, the Company operated 3,657 stores in 39 states as of June 30, 2011.
Forward-looking Statements
The Company claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "should," "plan," "intend," "estimate," "project," "target," "will" or similar words. In addition, statements contained within this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements concerning the proposed financing plan, the Company's target leverage ratio and the contemplated transactions, and there can be no assurance, even if the financing plan is consummated, that the Company will achieve its target leverage ratio. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, the Company's ability to consummate the financing plan and achieve the target leverage ratio as described herein, competition, product demand, the market for auto parts, the economy in general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental approvals, the Company's increased debt levels, credit ratings on the Company's public debt, the Company's ability to hire and retain qualified employees, risks associated with the performance of acquired businesses such as CSK Auto Corporation, weather, terrorist activities, war and the threat of war. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results described or implied in these forward-looking statements. Please refer to the "Risk Factors" section of the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, for additional factors that could materially affect the Company's financial performance.
 


