FILE:ORLY/ORLY-8K-20120601163517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On May 31, 2012, Rosalie O'Reilly-Wooten, a member of the Board of Directors of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. ("the Company"), established a plan in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the trading of the Company's common stock. The plan provides for the sales of specified share amounts at specific market prices, subject to specified limitations. The plan was established for the purpose of diversifying Mrs. Wooten's portfolio. The plan was established during the Company's unrestricted trading window and at a time when Mrs. Wooten was not in possession of material, non-public information about the Company. Mrs. Wooten has informed the Company that she will publicly disclose, as required by federal securities laws, any stock sales made under this plan.
On June 1, 2012, Ted Wise, Chief Operating Officer and Co-President of the Company, established a plan in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the trading of the Company's common stock. The plan provides for option exercises and subsequent sales of specified share amounts at specific market prices, subject to specified limitations. The plan was established for the purpose of facilitating the exercise and subsequent sale of stock options with a ten-year contractual life that are due to expire in February of 2015. The plan was established during the Company's unrestricted trading window and at a time when Mr. Wise was not in possession of material, non-public information about the Company. Mr. Wise has informed the Company that he will publicly disclose, as required by federal securities laws, any option exercises and stock sales made under this plan.
On June 1, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors approved a resolution to increase the authorization amount under its share repurchase program by an additional $500 million, raising the aggregate authorization under the program to $2 billion. The text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
SPRINGFIELD, Mo., June 1, 2012 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. (the "Company") (Nasdaq:ORLY), a leading retailer in the automotive aftermarket industry, today announced that its Board of Directors approved a resolution to increase the authorization amount under its share repurchase program by an additional $500 million, raising the aggregate authorization under the program to $2 billion.
The additional $500 million authorization is effective for a three-year period, beginning on June 1, 2012. Stock repurchases under the program may be made from time to time, as the Company deems appropriate, solely through open market purchases effected through a broker dealer at prevailing market prices, based on a variety of factors such as price, corporate requirements and overall market conditions. There can be no assurance as to the number of shares the Company will purchase, if any. The share repurchase program may be increased or otherwise modified, renewed, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, without prior notice.
About O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. is one of the largest specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States, serving both the do-it-yourself and professional service provider markets. Founded in 1957 by the O'Reilly family, the Company operated 3,809 stores in 39 states as of March 31, 2012.
The O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. logo is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/newsroom/prs/?pkgid=5430
Forward-Looking Statements
The Company claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "should," "plan," "intend," "estimate," "project," "will" or similar words. In addition, statements contained within this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements discussing among other things, expected growth, store development, integration and expansion strategy, business strategies, future revenues and future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, competition, product demand, the market for auto parts, the economy in general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental regulations, the Company's increased debt levels, credit ratings on the Company's public debt, the Company's ability to hire and retain qualified employees, risks associated with the performance of acquired businesses such as CSK, weather, terrorist activities, war and the threat of war. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results described or implied in these forward-looking statements. Please refer to the "Risk Factors" section of the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, for additional factors that could materially affect the Company's financial performance. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
CONTACT: Investor & Media Contact         Mark Merz (417) 829-5878


