FILE:ORLY/ORLY-8K-20121218163749.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): 
December 13
, 201
2
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2):
 
            
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
            
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
            
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
            
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 5
Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On December 13, 2012, OReilly Automotive, Inc. (the Company)
issued a press release announcing
that Ted Wise will transition from his current position as Chief Operating Officer and Co-President.  Effective January 1, 2013, Mr. Wises job title will become Executive Vice-President of Expansion.  The text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1,
and
is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 8  Other Events
Ite
m 8.01 Other Events
 
On December 17,
2012, the Company issued a press release announcing
it has entered into a definitive agreement to purchase the auto parts related assets of VIP Parts, Tires & Service.
 The text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
The information in section 8 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statemen
ts and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
            
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
OREILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. ANNOUNCES EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT CHANGES
 
Springfield, MO, December 13, 2012
OReilly Automotive, Inc. (the Company) (
Nasdaq:
ORLY), a leading retailer in the automotive aftermarket industry, today announced that effective January 1, 2013, after 42 years of exceptional service, Ted Wise will transition from his current position as Chief Operating Officer and Co-President and will continue his employment with the Company as Executive Vice-President of Expansion.  Also effective January 1, 2013, Jeff Shaw, Senior Vice-President of Store Operations and Sales, will be promoted to the position of Executive Vice-President of Store Operations and Sales.
 
Greg Henslee, Chief Executive Officer and President of OReilly, commented, Ted is an extremely valuable member of Team OReilly and has been instrumental in developing our Dual-Market-Strategy and helping to grow our Company into the great organization that we are today.  Ted began his career in the stores and was the Companys first district manager.  In 1984, he was named the first vice-president and was promoted to executive vice-president in 1990.  He was named Co-President in 1999 and in 2005 he assumed his current position of COO and Co-President.  Over the last five years, driven by the CSK acquisition, our store count has more than doubled, and Ted has spent much of his time analyzing existing and acquired properties, making lease renewal, renovation and relocation decisions, as well as overseeing our new store growth.  Teds new role will allow him to focus on real estate and continue to be actively engaged in our business, while also affording him the opportunity to spend more time with his family.  We are very fortunate and grateful that Ted will remain a member of our executive management team, where we will continue to benefit from his years of experience.
 
Mr. Wise commented, It is an honor and a privilege to have worked side-by-side with the members of the OReilly family, the best management team in the industry and over 50,000 hard-working and dedicated Team Members for so many years, and I am thankful for their support and friendship.  I am excited to transition into my new role with the Company as I continue to focus my efforts on our profitable growth.  Although I will be working fewer hours beginning in January, I will still be very involved with the business and my commitment to our future success has not changed.  Over the past several years, Jeff Shaw and I have worked very closely together managing our store and sales teams, and he has taken over the primary responsibility for managing these areas, I am very confident that he is more than ready for his new position.  He is a proven and well respected leader inside our organization, and he understands that our success depends on delivering industry leading customer service to each of our customers every day.
 
Mr. Shaw has been an OReilly Team Member for 24 years.  His career with the Company began at the store level as a parts specialist and he has held store manager, district manager, regional manager, divisional vice-president and vice-president positions prior to his current role as Senior Vice-President of Store Operations and Sales, a position that he assumed in 2004.  During his tenure with the Company, Mr. Shaw has worked in multiple markets across the country and has lead the store operations integration of several major acquisitions.  In his new role as Executive Vice-President of Store Operations and Sales, Mr. Shaw will assume full responsibility for all store operations and sales.
 
Mr. Henslee added, We are steadfast in our commitment to long-term profitable growth and we are confident that both Ted and Jeff will provide our operations and real estate teams with the leadership necessary to drive our growth.  We are very fortunate to have a strong bench of very talented and experienced vice-presidents and senior managers within our organization who will provide us with great leadership long into the future.
 
About OReilly Automotive, Inc.
OReilly Automotive, Inc. is one of the largest specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States, serving both the do-it-yourself and professional service provider markets.  Founded in 1957 by the OReilly family, the Company operated 3,896 stores in 39 states as of September 30, 2012.
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
The Company claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as expect, believe, anticipate, should, plan, intend, estimate, project, will or similar words.  In addition, statements contained within this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements discussing among other things, expected growth, store development, integration and expansion strategy, business strategies, future revenues and future performance.  These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results.  Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, competition, product demand, the market for auto parts, the economy in general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental regulations, the Companys increased debt levels, credit ratings on the Companys public debt, the Companys ability to hire and retain qualified employees, risks associated with the performance of acquired businesses such as CSK Auto Corporation, weather, terrorist activities, war and the threat of war.  Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results described or implied in these forward-looking statements.  Please refer to the Risk Factors section of the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, for additional factors that could materially affect the Companys financial performance.  The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
For further information contact:
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
Investor & Media Contact
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
  
            
            
            
            
Mark Merz (417) 829-5878
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
            
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
OREILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. ANNOUNCES
ASSET PURCHASE AGREEMENT WITH VIP
AUTO
 
Springfield, MO, December 1
7
, 2012
OReilly Automotive, Inc. (the Company
or OReilly
) (
Nasdaq:
ORLY), a
leading retailer in the automotive aftermarket industry, today announced that
it has entered into a definitive agreement to purchase the
auto parts related
assets of VIP
Parts, Tires & Service
(VIP).  The asset purchase is expected to be completed
on or about
December 31, 2012.
 
 
VIP is
a  
large privately held automotive parts
, tire
s
and service
chain
in New England
, and has provided outstanding service to New Englanders for over 30 years
.  
 
Based in Lewiston, Maine, VIP
currently operates
56 stores
located throughout
Maine, New Hampshire and Massachusetts
 
as well as a
distribution center
located in
Maine
.  After the completion of the asset purchase agreement,
VIP will continue to own and operate the
tire and
service components of the business and OReilly will own and operate the automotive parts sales and distribution operations of the business.
 
About
VIP Parts, Tires & Service
VIP Parts, Tires & Service is New Englands largest privately held automotive parts and accessories chain.
 
Based in Lewiston, Maine, VIP has 56 stores in Maine, New Hampshire and Massachusetts.
 
Since 1958, VIP has been the place where New Englanders turn for everything they need to keep their vehicles running at peak performance.
 
In 2001, VIP was purchased by Quirk Tire of Watertown, Massachusetts
.
   
Quirk Tire was founded 87 years ago by Edward Quirk Sr.
,
and the Quirk family has had a proud heritage of deliver
ing
exceptional customer service. 
Quirk Tire converted into the full VIP format in 2001.
 
About OReilly Automotive, Inc.
OReilly Automotive, Inc. is one of the largest specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment
and accessories in the United States, serving both the do-it-yourself and professional service provider markets.  Founded in 1957 by the OReilly family, the Company operated 3,896 stores in 39 states as of September 30, 2012.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
The Company claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as expect, believe, anticipate, should, plan, intend, estimate, project, will or similar words.  In addition, statements contained within this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements discussing among other things, expected growth, store development, integration and expansion strategy, business strategies, future revenues and future performance.  These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results.  Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, competition, product demand, the market for auto parts, the economy in general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental regulations, the Companys increased debt levels, credit ratings on the Companys public debt, the Companys ability to hire and retain qualified employees, risks associated with the performance of acquired businesses such as CSK Auto Corporation, weather, terrorist activities, war and the threat of war.  Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results described or implied in these forward-looking statements.  Please refer to the Risk Factors section of the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, for additional factors that could materially affect the Companys financial performance.  The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
For further information contact:
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
Investor & Media Contact
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
  
            
            
            
            
Mark Merz (417) 829-5878
 
 


