FILE:ORLY/ORLY-8K-20121113164011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): 
November
 6
, 201
2
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2):
 
            
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
            
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
            
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
            
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
Item
8.01
 
Other Events
 
On November
 6
, 2012,
Rosalie OReilly-Wooten
,  
a member of the Board of Directors
of OReilly Automotive, Inc. (
the
Company), established a plan in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the trading of the Companys common stock.
 The plan provides for
 
the sale of specified share amounts at specific market prices, subject to specified limitations
.
   
The plan was established for the purpose of diversifying Mrs. Wooten's portfolio.
The plan was established during the Companys unrestricted trading wind
ow and at a time when
Mrs.
Wooten
was not in possession of material, non-public informatio
n about the Company.  Mrs. Wooten
has informed the Company that
s
he will publicly disclose, as required by federal securities laws, any
s
tock sales made under this plan.
 
On November
12, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors approved a resolution to increase the authorization amount under its share repurchase program by an additional $500 million, raising the aggregate authorization under the program to $3
.0
billion.  The text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statemen
ts and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
OREILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. ANNOUNCES ADDITIONAL $500 MILLION SHARE REPURCHASE AUTHORIZATION
 
Springfield, MO, November 12, 2012
OReilly Automotive, Inc. (the Company) (
Nasdaq:
ORLY), a leading retailer in the automotive aftermarket industry, today announced that its Board of Directors approved a resolution to increase the authorization amount under its share repurchase program by an additional $500 million, raising the aggregate authorization under the program to $3.0 billion.
 
The additional $500 million authorization is effective for a three-year period, beginning on November 12, 2012.  Stock repurchases under the program may be made from time to time, as the Company deems appropriate, solely through open market purchases effected through a broker dealer at prevailing market prices, based on a variety of factors such as price, corporate requirements and overall market conditions.  There can be no assurance as to the number of shares the Company will purchase, if any.  The share repurchase program may be increased or otherwise modified, renewed, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, without prior notice.
 
About OReilly Automotive, Inc.
OReilly Automotive, Inc. is one of the largest specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States, serving both the do-it-yourself and professional service provider markets.  Founded in 1957 by the OReilly family, the Company operated 3,896 stores in 39 states as of September 30, 2012.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
The Company claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as expect, believe, anticipate, should, plan, intend, estimate, project, will or similar words.  In addition, statements contained within this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements discussing among other things, expected growth, store development, integration and expansion strategy, business strategies, future revenues and future performance.  These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results.  Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, competition, product demand, the market for auto parts, the economy in general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental regulations, the Companys increased debt levels, credit ratings on the Companys public debt, the Companys ability to hire and retain qualified employees, risks associated with the performance of acquired businesses such as CSK Auto Corporation, weather, terrorist activities, war and the threat of war.  Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results described or implied in these forward-looking statements.  Please refer to the Risk Factors section of the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, for additional factors that could materially affect the Companys financial performance.  The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
For further information contact:
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
Investor & Media Contact
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
  
            
            
            
            
Mark Merz (417) 829-5878
 
 
 


