FILE:MU/MU-8K-20030220152129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported)
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events.
 
                Filed as an exhibit hereto is the registrant's press release, dated February 18, 2003, announcing the registrant's cost reduction initiatives.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.                    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
                                (c)  Exhibits.
                                The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
THE CURRENT REPORT ON FORM 8-K DATED February 20, 2003
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
Boise, ID, February 18, 2003, Micron Technology, Inc., (NYSE: MU) announced today a series of cost-reduction initiatives to further capitalize on the Company's aggressive migration to .11 micron manufacturing process technology. The initiatives include increasing the Company's focus on products utilizing its latest generation process technology and lowering costs and expenses.
 
To meet corporate goals intended to strengthen the Company, reduce costs, and position the Company for growth and profitability, the following actions are planned:
 
- Increasing focus on products strategically aligned to utilize Micron's leading-edge process technology.
 
- Prioritizing Micron's product portfolio to better emphasize those products with the greatest market opportunity.
 
- Aligning Micron's cost structure with current market conditions.
 
- Reducing worldwide workforce levels by approximately 10%.
 
In commenting on the Company's cost reduction measures, Micron's Chief Executive Officer and President, Steve Appleton, said, "We remain committed to the long-term growth opportunities for our Company and our industry.  These actions will lower our cost structure, allow us to better focus our product portfolio, and continue to invest in new technology."


