FILE:MU/MU-8K-20030425141943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events.
 
See the following press release, dated April 23, 2003, announcing certain changes in the directors of the Company.
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)  Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Micron Technology, Inc., Announces the Retirement of Don J. Simplot from the Company's Board of Directors
 
 Micron Technology, Inc. (NYSE: MU), today announced the retirement of Don J. Simplot from the company's Board of Directors, effective immediately. Mr. Simplot has served on the Micron board since February 1982.
Boise, Idaho, April 23, 2003
 
Steve Appleton, President, Chairman and CEO of Micron Technology, Inc., said, "We appreciate the many contributions Don has made to Micron in the more than 20 years he has been a director. His dedication, support and perspective have served the Company well. We wish Don the very best." Mr. Simplot commented, "It has been gratifying to be part of the growth and success Micron has experienced over these past 20 years. I have every confidence in Steve Appleton and his management team."
 
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAMs, Flash memory, CMOS image sensors, other semiconductor components and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking, and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit its web site at www.micron.com.
 
Contact:
David T. Parker
Micron Technology, Inc.
(208) 368-4400
 


