FILE:MU/MU-8K-20030924172034.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.            Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)  Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
Item 12.         Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On September 24, 2003, Micron Technology, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended August 28, 2003.  The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
Boise, Idaho, September 24, 2003   Micron Technology, Inc., (NYSE: MU) today announced results of operations for its fourth quarter and fiscal year, which ended August 28, 2003.  For the fourth quarter, the Company had a net loss of $123 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, on sales of $889 million and a net loss for the 2003 fiscal year of $1,273 million, or $2.11 per diluted share, on sales of $3,091 million.  The Company did not recognize any tax benefit in fiscal 2003 from its U.S. net operating losses.
 
The Company also announced today, the receipt of $450 million from Intel Corporation in exchange for the issuance of stock rights exchangeable into approximately 33.9 million shares of the Company's common stock.  The investment was made in the context of comprehensive business agreements between the two companies confirming an ongoing, close relationship between the companies and alignment of business interests, including deployment of DDR2 memory and 300 mm wafer processing.
 
The Company's sales were 21% higher in the fourth quarter as compared to the immediately preceding quarter as a result of an approximate 15% increase in megabit selling prices and an increase in megabit sales volume.
  Sales for t
he 2003 fiscal year were 19% higher compared to
fiscal 2002.  The average selling price for the Company's primary product, the 256 Meg DDR SDRAM, decreased approximately 30% comparing the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. 
Sales volume slightly outpaced production in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 resulting in lower megabit finished goods inventories as compared to the previous quarter as well as the prior year-end.
The Company's megabit production increased approximately 8% comparing the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 to the third quarter.  The fourth quarter increase followed megabit production increases of approximately 20% and 10% in the third and second quarters of fiscal 2003, respectively.  The megabit production gains were principally due to completion of the Company's .13 micron process technology migration, transitions to .11 micron devices and improved manufacturing yields.
 
Steve Appleton, Micron's Chief Executive Officer and President, said, "Process technology leadership is fundamental to success in the semiconductor industry.  We are pleased with the manufacturing cost reductions achieved over the past three quarters, and anticipate comparable reductions over the next couple of quarters as the benefits of maturing yields and the further migration to .11 micron devices are realized.  I'm also pleased to further strengthen the relationship between Micron and Intel.  The Intel investment demonstrates the alignment of our two companies' roadmaps, particularly in the area of DDR2 deployment and in the development of new products."
 
The Company will host a conference call today at 3:30 p.m. MDT to discuss its financial results. The conference call, audio and slides, will be available online at www.micron.com. (To access the Webcast, you will need current versions of RealPlayer or Windows Media Player and speakers for audio.) A Webcast replay will be available on the Company's Web site until September 24, 2004. A taped audio replay of the conference call will also be available at (973) 341-3080 (confirmation code: 4173983) beginning at 5:30 p.m. MDT today and continuing until 7:30 p.m. MDT on September 29, 2003.
 
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAMs, Flash memory, CMOS image sensors, other semiconductor components and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking, and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit its Web site at www.micron.com.
 
# # #
MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL SUMMARY
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the Company's operating loss adjusted to exclude the effects of the current and prior quarters' inventory write-downs and the restructure and related charges.  These adjusted amounts are not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, however the Company believes this information may be useful in assessing the effects of inventory write-downs and the restructure charges on the Company's operating loss and analyzing the Company's operating loss trends.
 
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
 
 
The Company's fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31.  The Company's fiscal 2004 contains 53 weeks and the first quarter of fiscal 2004 is the 14-week period ending December 4, 2003.
 
On September 24, 2003 the Company received $450 million from Intel Corporation in exchange for the issuance of stock rights exchangeable into approximately 33.9 million shares of the Company's common stock.  In conjunction with the issuance of the stock rights, the Company agreed to achieve operational objectives through May 2005, including certain levels of DDR2 production and 300 mm wafer processing capacity, and dedication of resources to advanced product development.  In the event the Company fails to achieve certain 2005 milestones and the Company's common stock price is then below Intel's purchase price, the Company could be obligated to pay Intel amounts not to exceed $135 million, a substantial portion of which is payable, at the Company's election, in the Company's common stock.  The operational objectives are in line with the Company's business plans and currently the Company is confident that each associated milestone will be met.
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding manufacturing cost reductions in future periods and the Company's ability to meet the milestones associated with the investment by Intel. Actual events or results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to the documents the Company files on a consolidated basis from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically the Company's most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results for the Company on a consolidated basis to differ materially from those contained in our projections or forward-looking statements (www.micron.com). Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release to conform to actual results.


