FILE:MU/MU-8K-20040623165546.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported)
 
Item 5.
Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
                              
 
On June 22, 2004 Ron Foster was appointed to the Micron Technology, Inc., Board of Directors.  Mr. Foster currently serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of JDS Uniphase.  Prior to joining JDS Uniphase, Mr. Foster served as the Chief Financial Officer of Novell Corporation, as Vice President, Operations Controller for Applied Materials, and for over a decade, in various finance management positions with Hewlett-Packard.  Mr. Foster has an MBA degree from the University of Chicago and a BA degree in Economics from Whitman College.
 
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
                              
 
(c)  Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
Item 12.
Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
                       
 
On June 23, 2004, Micron Technology, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended June 3, 2004.  The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
THE CURRENT REPORT ON FORM 8-K DATED JUNE 23, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
                Boise, Idaho, June 23, 2004  Micron Technology, Inc., (NYSE: MU) today announced results of operations for its third quarter of fiscal 2004, which ended June 3, 2004.  For the quarter, the Company earned operating income of $110 million and net income of $91 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, on sales of $1,117 million.  These results compare to a $0.04 per diluted share loss in the immediately preceding quarter and a $0.36 per diluted share loss in the third quarter of fiscal 2003.  The Company reported net sales of $991 million in the second quarter of 2004.
                The Company's 13% increase in sales for the third quarter compared to the immediately preceding quarter resulted primarily from improved selling prices for the Company's semiconductor memory products.  Average selling prices for memory products in the third quarter of fiscal 2004 were approximately 15% higher than the immediately preceding quarter and approximately 45% higher than the third quarter a year ago.  In addition to improved market conditions for the Company's core DRAM products, average selling prices in the third quarter benefited from sales of legacy, low density, DRAM devices which continue to be well received in the marketplace.
                Allocations of wafer starts to CMOS image sensors contributed to lower levels of core DRAM megabit production in the third quarter as compared to the immediately preceding quarter.  Additionally, the recent diversification of product mix and prioritization of specialty DRAM products, including PSRAM (pseudo-static RAM) devices, necessitated production changes to optimize long-term wafer processing efficiency, temporarily resulting in a lower level of wafer output experienced in the third quarter.
 
 
MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC., REPORTS RESULTS FOR THE
THIRD QUARTER OF FISCAL YEAR 2004 AND APPOINTMENT OF NEW DIRECTOR
 
                Steve Appleton, Chairman, CEO and President, commented, "We are extremely pleased to have achieved significant profitability in a quarter that was challenged with balancing strategic changes in our business.  We dedicated a higher level of wafer production to CMOS image sensors in response to enthusiasm in the market for our DigitalClarityTM CMOS Imaging Devices.  Additionally, Micron is noticeably leading the industry with delivery of advanced PSRAM memory devices, used in component form and in multi-chip packages to meet the rapidly growing requirements of the handset market."
                During the third quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company qualified its first memory product at its 300 mm wafer fabrication plant in Virginia.  The 256 Meg DDR device produced in Virginia on the Company's 110 nanometer process technology is the industry's first memory device in production to utilize copper interconnects.
                The Company also announced today that Ron Foster has been appointed to the Micron Technology, Inc., Board of Directors.  Mr. Foster currently serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of JDS Uniphase.  Prior to joining JDS Uniphase, Mr. Foster served as the Chief Financial Officer of Novell Corporation, as Vice President, Operations Controller for Applied Materials, and for over a decade, in various finance management positions with Hewlett-Packard.  Mr. Foster has an MBA degree from the University of Chicago and a BA degree in Economics from Whitman College.  Mr. Appleton commented, "We are pleased to have Ron join Micron's Board of Directors.  With his breadth of experience he will be a valuable contributor to Micron and to the Board of Directors."
                The Company will host a conference call today at 3:30 p.m. MDT to discuss its financial results. The conference call, audio and slides, will be available online at www.micron.com.  A Webcast replay will be available on the Company's Web site until June 23, 2005. A taped audio replay of the conference call will also be available at (973) 341-3080 (confirmation code: 4844814) beginning at 5:30 p.m. MDT today and continuing until 5:30 p.m. MDT on July 1, 2004.
                Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAMs, Flash memory, CMOS image sensors, other semiconductor components and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit its Web site at www.micron.com.
 
 
 
The Company's fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31.  The Company's fiscal 2004 contains 53 weeks and its first quarter of fiscal 2004 contained 14 weeks.
 
 
 
 


