FILE:MU/MU-8K-20050701135401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
o
 
 
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
      
 
In June 1997, the Board of Directors approved a program whereby non-employee directors are granted (i) an initial option to purchase 10,000 shares upon the later of the date of their appointment to the Board of Directors, and (ii) June 30, 1997, the date on which the resolutions approving the program were passed by the Board of Directors.  In connection with Ms. Mercedes Johnson's appointment to the Company's Board of Directors (see Item 5.02 below), Ms. Johnson was granted a fully vested option for 10,000 shares with an exercise price of $10.58 pursuant to the standard Material Option Terms on the Form of Agreement previously filed with the Commission.
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
     
 
Effective June 27, 2005, the Company's Board of Directors appointed Mercedes Johnson as a member of the Board of Directors.  Ms. Johnson is expected to be appointed to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, effective July 18, 2005.  The full text of the press release issued in connection with the appointment of Ms. Johnson to the Board of Directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The Company paid $71.3 million for fiscal 2004 and $58.7 million (to date) for fiscal 2005 to Lam Research Corporation for semiconductor manufacturing equipment and related services.  Ms. Johnson, whose employment with Lam Research Corporation ended in January of 2005, is the former Sr. Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Lam Research Corporation.
 
Item 5.03.
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Financial Year
     
 
Effective June 27, 2005, the Company's Board of Directors amended the Bylaws of the Company to increase the authorized number of directors from seven to eight in order to effectuate the appointment of Ms. Johnson to the Company's Board of Directors.  See Item 5.02 above and Exhibit 3.8 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
 
(c)  Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
THE CURRENT REPORT ON FORM 8-K DATED JULY 1, 2005
 

EXHIBIT 3.8
 
CERTIFICATE OF TWENTY-FIFTH AMENDMENT
I, Jan R. Reimer, Assistant Corporate Secretary of Micron Technology, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), hereby certify that the following resolution was adopted by the Board of Directors effective as of June 27, 2005:
 
, the Company's Governance and Compensation Committee of the Board has nominated, approved and recommended that Ms. Mercedes Johnson sit as a member of the Company's Board of Directors; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Board is in agreement with the recommendation of the Governance and Compensation Committee;
WHEREAS
 
, that the first sentence of Article III, Section I of the Bylaws of this Company be deleted and the following be substituted therefore:
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED
 
"SECTION I.  The authorized number of directors of the corporation shall be eight."
 
, I hereunto set my hand and affix the corporate seal of said Company effective as of the 27th day of June, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
Boise, Idaho, June 28, 2005  Micron Technology, Inc., (NYSE: MU) today announced the appointment of Mercedes Johnson to its board of directors.  Ms. Johnson, most recently worked with Lam Research Corporation, serving for seven years as its senior vice president, finance, and chief financial officer.  Prior to joining Lam Research, Ms. Johnson spent 10 years with Applied Materials, Inc., where she served in various senior financial management positions, including vice president and worldwide operations controller.  In addition, Ms. Johnson has held managerial and controller positions at Nanometrics, Inc., NCR Corporation, and Hewlett-Packard Company.  Ms. Johnson holds a degree in accounting from the University of Buenos Aires and currently serves on the board of directors for Storage Technology Corporation (StorageTek).
 
Steve Appleton, Micron's chairman of the board, chief executive officer and president,
commented, "We are extremely pleased to welcome Mercedes to Micron's board of directors. She has an excellent financial background and nearly two decades of experience in the semiconductor industry.  She will be an immediate, valuable and contributing member of the board of directors."
 
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAMs, NAND Flash memory, CMOS image sensors, other semiconductor components, and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit its web site at www.micron.com.
 
 
Micron and the Micron orbit logo are trademarks of Micron Technology, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


