FILE:MU/MU-8K-20050824132326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
CURRENT REPORT
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
o
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
             
 
On August 22, 2005, Micron Technology, Inc. announced the resignation of Mr. Thomas T. Nicholson from the Company's Board of Directors, effective as of September 1, 2005.
 
The full text of the press release issued in connection with the resignation of Mr. Nicholson is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
             
 
(c)  Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
THE CURRENT REPORT ON FORM 8-K DATED AUGUST 24, 2005
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
Boise, Idaho, August 22, 2005  Micron Technology, Inc., (NYSE: MU) Chairman Steve Appleton today announced the retirement of long-time director Thomas T. Nicholson from the Company's board of directors at the end of Micron's 2005 fiscal year. Mr. Nicholson was first elected to the Company's board of directors in 1980 and served unwaveringly for 25 years.
 
"Tom will be sorely missed by all who worked with him over the years," said Mr. Appleton. "He's been with Micron from the beginning and his personal time and investment helped us grow from our initial local production facility to a global organization. His business acumen, entrepreneurial spirit, considered judgment and dedication to the Company greatly assisted us through both good and lean times. We cannot thank him enough for all of his contributions."
 
"Micron has been an important part of my life for 25 years. During that time I've been privileged to serve as a director and to oversee the Company's growth from humble beginnings to a world-wide organization. It's been challenging and rewarding," said Mr. Nicholson
 
Mr. Nicholson also commented, "Along the way I've worked with great and wonderful people and I believe we've accomplished something significant. I have every confidence that the board of directors and dedicated employees of Micron will continue to build on the foundation laid over the past quarter century. I will miss my close association with Micron but wish them well."
 
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAMs, NAND Flash memory, CMOS image sensors, other semiconductor components, and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit its web site at www.micron.com.
 


