FILE:MU/MU-8K-20060222161454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
o
 
Item 8.01       Other Events
 
On February 21, 2006 the Company issued a press release announcing it had filed a lawsuit against Rambus Inc. alleging that Rambus violated sections of the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and Virginia conspiracy laws through a pattern of illegal conduct.  The full text of the release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8K.
 
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
, 2006   Micron Technology, Inc., (NYSE: MU) today announced that it has filed a new lawsuit against Rambus Inc. (NASDAQ: RMBS). The suit alleges that Rambus violated sections of the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and Virginia conspiracy laws through a pattern of illegal conduct.
BOISE, Idaho, Feb. 21
 
"As our complaint describes, Rambus has engaged in a variety of illegal activities designed to injure Micron," said Rod Lewis, Micron's Vice President of Legal Affairs and General Counsel.
 
Micron's complaint alleges that Rambus engaged in a pattern of destruction of evidence, false testimony and other improper activities designed to mislead courts and Micron to extract unjust patent licensing fees or damages from Micron. The complaint includes allegations that Rambus intentionally concealed information through false testimony and other means regarding the ownership of key Rambus patents asserted against Micron in patent suits.
 
Today's lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. Micron designated the case as related to other cases before the Honorable Judge Robert E. Payne, including a pending case between Rambus and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and an earlier case between Rambus and Infineon Technologies AG.  In Rambus' suit against Infineon, the Virginia court ruled that Rambus' actions relating to destroying documents and litigation misconduct warranted the dismissal of Rambus' patent claims against Infineon.
 
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAMs, NAND flash memory, CMOS image sensors, other semiconductor components, and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking, and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit www.micron.com.
 
Micron and the Micron orbit logo are trademarks of Micron Technology, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


