FILE:MU/MU-8K-20071101164253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
c
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
c
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
c
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
c
 
 
 
 
(d)  Effective October 29, 2007, the Companys Board of Directors appointed Robert Bailey as a member of the Companys Board of Directors. Mr. Bailey has also been appointed to the Audit Committee and the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors.  The full text of the press release issued in connection with the appointment of Mr. Bailey to the Board of Directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
(e)  In connection with its efforts to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the Code) the Company reviewed and revised the form of severance agreement it uses with respect to its officers.  The new form of agreement will replace or amend existing severance agreements and also will be used for newly or recently appointed officers.  Starting on October 26, 2007, the Company began obtaining executed copies of the new form of severance agreement from its officers.  The form of severance agreement is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The new form of severance agreement, like its predecessor, provides for severance benefits upon termination of employment with the Company or loss of officer status, for any reason, including death, voluntary or involuntary termination, or termination with or without cause.  Payment of severance benefits under the new form will commence, however, only when such termination or loss of officer status also satisfies the requirements of a "separation from service" as defined in Section 409A of the Code.  Severance payments for the officers may be subject to a 6-month delay in commencement measured from the date of separation from service if required by Section 409A of the Code.
Severance benefits under the new form of agreement are to be paid for a period of twelve months (the "Transition Period"), and primarily consist of base salary, bonus, continued vesting of options and continued vesting of time-based and performance-based restricted shares.  In addition, the officer will be paid a sum of money designed to compensate the officer for the loss of his 401(k) matching contribution during the Transition Period and a sum of money designed to compensate the officer for the difference between the amount in premiums the officer paid for employee benefits, such as medical, dental, vision and life insurance coverage, as an employee and the amount in premiums it will cost the officer to secure similar coverage during the Transition Period as a non-employee.  The sums of money paid to compensate the officer for the loss of benefits are grossed up for the federal and state tax impact of the payments.  The payment of any bonus or the vesting of performance-based restricted shares during the Transition Period is dependent upon the achievement, on or prior to the expiration of the Transition Period, of applicable Company-wide, business unit or operational pre-determined goals.
Severance payments are subject to the following conditions: (1) a one year noncompetition obligation, (2) confidentiality obligations related to the Companys proprietary and confidential information that last indefinitely, (3) no disparagement and confidentiality obligations surrounding the reasons for, and circumstances of, the officers termination of employment or change in officer status that last indefinitely, and (4) non-solicitation and non-interference provisions relating to the Companys employees and business partners.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Web site URL
http://www.micron.com
  Micron Technology, Inc., (NYSE: MU) today announced the appointment of Robert L. Bailey to the companys Board of Directors, effective immediately. Bailey is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of PMC-Sierra, a leading provider of broadband communications and storage semiconductor technologies.
Boise
,
Idaho
, Oct. 29
, 2007
 
We are extremely pleased to welcome Bob to our Board of Directors, said Micron Chairman and CEO Steve Appleton. Bob brings unique experience and strengths to our board, and we look forward to his contributions.
 
Bailey has served as PMCs President and Chief Executive Officer since July 1997. He has been Chairman of the Board since May 2005 and was also Chairman from February 2000 until February 2003. Bailey has been a director of PMC since October 1996.
 
Bailey has also served as President, Chief Executive Officer and director of PMC-Sierra, Ltd., PMCs Canadian operating subsidiary (LTD) since December 1993. Bailey was employed by AT&T-Microelectronics from August 1989 to November 1993, where he served as Vice President and General Manager, and by Texas Instruments in management from June 1979 to August 1989.
 
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAMs, NAND flash memory, CMOS image sensors, other semiconductor components, and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron visit .
www.micron.com

Exhibit 99.2
This Severance Agreement (the Agreement) is by and between Micron Technology, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), and _____________, an individual and Officer of the Company, (the Officer), and is effective as of ________, 2007.
WHEREAS, the parties recognize that it is in the best interest of the Company to provide for a smooth transition when there is a change in management, and wish to recognize the valued contributions of the Officer; and
WHEREAS, the Company desires to provide the Officer with benefits in consideration for his or her execution of this Agreement and the instrument titled Agreement Not to Compete or Solicit (the Noncompete Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.           TERMINATION OF THE OFFICER.  Either the Company or the Officer may at any time terminate the Officers active employment with the Company for any reason, voluntary or involuntary, with or without cause, by providing notice to that effect in writing.
2.           LOSS OF OFFICER STATUS. Upon receipt by the Officer of a notice of termination from the Company, or at any other time upon the Companys request, the Officer shall resign immediately as an officer and/or director of the Company.  Effective on the date the Company specified the Officer is no longer an officer of the Company, the Officer may terminate his or her employment with the Company and act as a consultant to the Company or continue as a non-officer employee with the Company, provided in each case the parties so agree in writing.
3.           SEPARATION FROM SERVICE.  The date of the Officers Separation from Service shall be the earliest of: (i) the date of the Officers death; or (ii) the date after which the Company and the Officer reasonably anticipate that the level of bona fide services the Officer will perform, whether as an employee or consultant, will permanently decrease to 20 percent or less of the average level of bona fide services performed (whether as an employee or contractor) over the immediately preceding 36-month period (or the full period of services to the Company if the Officer provided services to the Company for less than 36 months).
4.           TRANSITION PERIOD.  For purposes of this agreement, the Transition Period shall be a one year period immediately following the date of the Officers Separation from Service.
           
        1    
SEVERANCE AGREEMENT - 
5(a).       COMPENSATION DURING THE TRANSITION PERIOD.  Provided the Officer complies with the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Noncompete Agreement, the Officer, or the Officer's estate in the event of the Officer's death, will receive during the Transition Period compensation and cash in lieu of employee benefits as provided on Exhibit 5(a), attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.
5(b).       EXECUTIVE BONUS AFTER LOSS OF OFFICER STATUS.  An Officer who ceases to be an Officer but not an employee of the Company, and who has not yet incurred a Separation from Service (referred to herein as a "Non-Officer Employee"), shall receive, in lieu of an executive bonus pursuant to Section 5(a)(ii) of Exhibit 5(a), an executive bonus, if at all, subject to the following terms and conditions:
If as of the date of the Officers loss of officer status the Non-Officer Employee was a designated participant for an executive bonus plan performance period but the board of directors or a committee thereof has not yet taken action on any required goal achievement certification for such performance period, the Non-Officer Employee will be entitled to receive his or her executive bonus in the amount so certified, at the same time and in the same manner as the continuing officers of the Company receive payment of their executive bonuses for such performance period, if and only if (A) the specified goals are achieved, as certified by the Company's board of directors or a committee thereof, (B) payment is made for such achievement pursuant to the terms and conditions of the bonus program to the other participating officers, (C) the Non-Officer Employee is an employee of the Company at the time of payment and (D) the Non-Officer Employee complies with the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Noncompete Agreement.
An Non-Officer Employee that receives a bonus pursuant to the term of this Section 5(b) shall not be entitled to receive an additional bonus pursuant to Section 5(a)(ii) of Exhibit 5(a) during his or her Transition Period.
5(c).       FURTHER CLARIFICATIONS.  It is understood that the Officer, during the period of time in which he or she is a Non-Officer Employee and at any time during the Transition Period, is not entitled pursuant to this Agreement to renew his or her participation in any executive bonus program, receive any new grants of stock options or restricted stock, or, except in the case where the Company terminates the Officers status as an officer of the Company but not as an employee, to the accrual of TOP time. It is further understood that the Officer is not entitled to payment of any compensation that is deferred past the Transition Period due to payment criteria of an incentive program, as those criteria existed as of the date of the Officers Separation from Service.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Officer shall not be entitled to any payment which is earned and payable after the Transition Period pursuant to the terms of the
           
              
SEVERANCE AGREEMENT - 2
applicable plan or program.  No action by the Company or the Companys Board of Directors may affect the Officers receipt of the benefits set forth above, other than as provided herein.
5(d).       GROSS-UP CALCULATIONS.  All compensation provided pursuant to this Agreement is subject to applicable taxes and withholding.  All gross-up calculations and payments will be based on the standard supplemental withholding rates provided by federal and state guidelines.  The Company will not use the Officers personal effective tax rate for these calculations.  Gross-up payments will be considered as compensation on the Officers W-2 at the end of the year.
6.           CONFIDENTIALITY.  The reasons for, and circumstances of, an Officers termination of employment or change in officer status shall be kept confidential and shall not be disclosed; provided that the Company may disclose such information as the Company determines, in its sole discretion, is either required by law to be disclosed or necessary to be disclosed to serve a valid business purpose.
7.           RELEASE.  Upon receipt of all benefits under this Agreement, the Officer and Company settle, waive, and voluntarily release any and all claims each has or may have against the other, inclusive of any of the Companys affiliates, officers, directors, employees or agents, both individually and in their official capacities, which claims are accruing prior to the end of the Transition Period.
8.           FINAL AGREEMENT.  Except as set forth below, this Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, and is the entire and final understanding of the parties as to the subject matter hereof.  No modification of, or amendment to, this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing signed by both parties. This Agreement is in addition to, and does not supersede or modify in any fashion, the provisions of the Noncompete Agreement entered into by the parties hereto or the provisions of any Assignment of Rights & Inventions and/or Confidential Information agreements previously executed by Officer in favor of Micron .  For avoidance of doubt, the Period of Restriction as defined in the Noncompete Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the terms of the Noncompete Agreement.
(collectively, Additional Agreements).  The obligations contained in the Additional Agreements shall continue independent of the obligations of one another and of this Agreement
9.           409A COMPLIANCE; TIMING OF PAYMENTS.  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if any amount or benefit that would constitute non-exempt deferred compensation for purposes of Internal Revenue Code (Code) Section 409A and the applicable Treasury Regulations (together, Section 409A) would otherwise be payable or distributable under this Agreement by reason of the Officers Separation from Service during a period in which the Officer is a Specified Employee (as defined below), then, subject to
 
           
             
SEVERANCE AGREEMENT - 3
any permissible acceleration of payment by the Company under Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii) (domestic relations order), (j)(4)(iii) (conflicts of interest), or (j)(4)(vi) (payment of employment taxes):
(i)           if the payment or distribution is payable in a lump sum, the Officers right to receive payment or distribution of such non-exempt deferred compensation will be delayed until the earlier of the Officers death or the first day of the seventh month following the Officers Separation from Service; and
(ii)           if the payment or distribution is payable over time, the amount of such non-exempt deferred compensation that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period immediately following the Officers Separation from Service will be accumulated and the Officers right to receive payment or distribution of such accumulated amount will be delayed until the earlier of the Officers death or the first day of the seventh month following the Officers Separation from Service, whereupon the accumulated amount will be paid or distributed to the Officer and the normal payment or distribution schedule for any remaining payments or distributions will resume.
For purposes of this Agreement, the term Specified Employee has the meaning given such term in Section 409A, provided, however, that, as permitted in Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(i), the Companys Specified Employees and its application of the six-month delay rule of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) shall be determined in accordance with rules adopted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, which shall be applied consistently with respect to all nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements of the Company, including this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement, effective as of ____________.
           
              
SEVERANCE AGREEMENT - 4
           
         5   
SEVERANCE AGREEMENT - 
           
              
SEVERANCE AGREEMENT -6
           
         7   
SEVERANCE AGREEMENT - 


