FILE:MU/MU-8K-20071002160444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
c
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
c
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
c
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
c
 
 
 
On October 2, 2007, Micron Technology, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter and year ended August 30, 2007.  The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The Company is pursuing a number of initiatives to drive greater cost efficiencies and revenue growth across its operations.  These initiatives include workforce reductions in certain areas of the Company as the Companys business is realigned.  Additional initiatives include establishing certain operations closer in location to the Companys global customers, evaluating functions more efficiently performed through partnerships or other outside relationships and reducing the Companys overhead costs to meet or exceed industry benchmarks.  The Company is also exploring opportunities to leverage the Companys industry-leading technology and diversified product portfolio to accelerate revenue growth and increase shareholder value.  It is anticipated that these initiatives will be implemented over several quarters.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company incurred a restructure charge of $19 million in connection with the implementation of its cost efficiency initiatives.  The fourth quarter charge is comprised primarily of employee severance and related costs resulting from a reduction in the Companys workforce.  The Company anticipates that it will incur some level of restructure charges through the end of fiscal 2008 as it continues to implement these initiatives, but is currently unable to estimate the aggregate amount of the charges.
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements regarding future restructure charges. Actual events or results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to the documents the Company files on a consolidated basis from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically the Company's most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results for the Company on a consolidated basis to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements (see Certain Factors). Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform to actual results.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL SUMMARY, Continued
 
 
 


