FILE:MU/MU-8K-20070730143552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
On July 25, 2007, Gordon C. Smith informed the Company of his intention to retire from its Board of Directors, effective immediately.  Mr. Smith served on the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Companys Board of Directors.
 
A press release related to Mr. Smith's retirement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
4

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Web site URL
http://www.micron.com
  Micron Technology, Inc., (NYSE: MU) today announced that Director Gordon C. Smith has informed the company of his resignation from the board of directors for personal reasons.
Boise
,
Idaho
, July
25
, 2007
 
Smith served two terms on Microns board from February 1982 through February 1984 and from September 1990 to the present. Smith is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SFG, L.L.C., a holding company for ranch operations and other investments.
 
Ive had a tremendous experience with the company during my 19 years on the Board, said Smith. I have enjoyed the opportunity to work with fellow Board members and the Micron team. The semiconductor business is a challenging, competitive business, and I wish the best for Micron as they continue to pursue success in this industry.
 
Robert E. Switz, Chairman of the Governance Committee of the Micron Board of Directors, commented, Speaking on behalf of the Board of Directors, we wish to thank Gordon for his many years of service to Micron. Gordon has been associated with Micron since 1982 and has participated in the companys growth from a small semiconductor memory company to a globally competitive leader in semiconductor technology and innovation. We wish Gordon well in his future endeavors.
 
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAMs, NAND flash memory, CMOS image sensors, other semiconductor components, and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron visit .
www.micron.com


