FILE:MU/MU-8K-20080402160358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
o
 
 
 
 
On March 31, 2008, the Companys joint venture subsidiary, TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ("TECH") entered into a new credit facility that enables it to borrow up to $600 million at SIBOR plus 2.5%, subject to customary covenants (the Credit Facility).  In addition to TECH, the parties to the Credit Facility are ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Singapore Branch, Citibank, N.A., Singapore Branch / Citigroup Global Markets Singapore Pte Ltd, DBS Bank Ltd and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited as Original Mandated Lead Arrangers and a syndicate of banks (collectively the Banks).  The Credit Facility is available for drawdown from March 31, 2008 to December 31, 2008. TECH is expected to draw $220 million under the new credit facility on April 7, 2008 and retire the amount outstanding under its previous credit facility by paying off $240 million.  Payments under the new facility are due in 13 quarterly installments commencing in May 2009.  The Credit Facility is secured by all of the assets of TECH and contains customary affirmative, negative and financial covenants, including, among other requirements, negative covenants that restrict TECHs ability to create liens, incur indebtedness, merge or consolidate, acquire or dispose of assets, make distributions, enter into transactions with affiliates, enter into restrictive agreements and financial covenants that establish applicable liquidity ratios, debt service coverage ratios and limit the maximum leverage ratios that TECH can maintain at any one time.
In addition, the Credit Facility contains events of default, that include, among others, non-payment of principal, interest or fees, violation of covenants, inaccuracy of representations or statements, cross-defaults to certain other indebtedness by TECH or the Company, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults of TECH or the Company, material adverse change to the business of TECH,  specific ownership requirements, material judgments, and non-extension of the term of the TECH joint venture.  The occurrence of an event of default could result in an increased interest rate, the acceleration of TECHs obligations under the Credit Facility and an obligation of TECH or the Company, under certain circumstances to repay the full amount of TECHs borrowings under the Credit Facility.
In connection with the Credit Facility, on March 31, 2008, the Company entered into a Guarantee with ABN AMRO Bank B.V., Singapore Branch, as security agent for the Banks (the Guarantee).  Pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee, the Company has guaranteed approximately 73% of the outstanding amount of the Credit Facility, with the Companys obligations increasing to 100% of the outstanding amount of the Credit Facility upon the occurrence of certain conditions.  As a condition to granting the Guarantee, the Company has a second position priority interest in all of the assets of TECH behind the Banks.  Certain limited events of default under the Credit Facility will apply to the Company for as long as the Guarantee remains in place, including inaccuracy of representations and statements the Company, violation of covenants of the Company under the Guarantee, and material adverse change to the business of the Company. In addition, the Guarantee contains a limited number of covenants including requiring the obligations under the Guarantee to be with all other indebtedness of the Company, making no substantial changes to the business, and not entering into a merger where the Company is not the surviving entity or that has a material adverse affect on its ability to repay the Guarantee.  
pari passu
 
The foregoing descriptions of the Credit Facility and Guarantee are only summaries and do not purport to be complete.  The summaries are qualified in their entirety by reference to the actual agreements, which will be filed as exhibits to a future periodic or current report.
On April 2, 2008, the Company announced its financial results for the quarter ended February 28, 2008.  The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information set forth under Item 1.01, Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement, is incorporated herein by reference.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company began pursuing a number of initiatives to drive greater cost efficiencies and revenue growth across its operations.  These initiatives include workforce reductions in certain areas of the Company as the Companys business is realigned.  Additional initiatives include establishing certain operations closer in location to the Companys global customers, evaluating functions more efficiently performed through partnerships or other outside relationships and reducing the Companys overhead costs to meet or exceed industry benchmarks.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the first quarter of fiscal 2008 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company recorded restructure charges of $8 million, $13 million and $19 million, respectively, consisting primarily of employee severance and related costs resulting from a reduction in the Companys workforce.  The first quarter charge also included a write-down of the carrying value of certain facilities to their estimated fair values.  The Company anticipates that it will incur some level of restructure charges through the end of fiscal 2008 as it continues to implement these initiatives, but is currently unable to estimate the aggregate amount of the charges.
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements regarding the date of the TECH drawdown and future restructure charges. Actual events or results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to the documents the Company files on a consolidated basis from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically the Company's most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results for the Company on a consolidated basis to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements (see Certain Factors). Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform to actual results.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
, April 2, 2008  Micron Technology, Inc., (NYSE: MU) today announced results of operations for the companys second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2008, which ended February 28, 2008. Despite continued significant declines in average sales prices for the companys primary products, the company reported net sales of $1.4 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 compared to net sales of $1.5 billion for the previous quarter. The company also generated cash flow from operations during the second quarter of fiscal 2008 of $282 million and ended the quarter with cash and investments of $1.9 billion. As a result of the companys current market capitalization being below book value, the company was required under FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to record a non-cash charge of $463 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2008 to write off all the carrying amount of goodwill previously recognized in the companys memory segment. The goodwill write-off does not affect the companys day-to-day business operations, cash balance or competitive position. Reflecting the goodwill charge, the company reported a net loss for the second quarter of $1.01 per diluted share. On a non-GAAP basis, without the effect of the charge, the companys net loss for the second quarter would have been $0.41 per diluted share or $314 million. These results compare to a net loss of $262 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, for the first quarter of fiscal 2008.
BOISE, Idaho
 
The companys net sales declined 11 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2008 compared to the immediately preceding quarter primarily due to lower selling prices partially offset by increased production of memory products. Average selling prices for the companys DRAM and NAND Flash memory products decreased 15 percent and 30 percent, respectively, in the second quarter compared to the first quarter. Comparing the second quarter to the same quarter of the previous fiscal year, average selling prices for the companys DRAM and NAND Flash memory products decreased approximately 60 percent and 70 percent, respectively.
 
The company achieved second quarter reductions in cost of goods sold per megabit of approximately 15 percent and 25 percent for DRAM and NAND Flash memory products, respectively, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2008. These reductions resulted from continuing advancements in our industry-leading process technology and increased output from our 300mm operations.
 
The company had capital expenditures of $693 million during the second quarter bringing the expenditures for the first six months to $1.6 billion. The company estimates capital expenditures aggregating between $2.5 billion and $3 billion for the 2008 fiscal year.  In the third quarter of fiscal 2008, TECH Semiconductor, a consolidated joint venture, entered into a $600 million credit facility to refinance its existing debt of $240 million and to finance future capital expenditures.
 
The company will host a conference call today at 2:30 p.m. MDT to discuss its financial results. The call, audio and slides will be available online at www.micron.com. A webcast replay will be available on the companys Web site until April 2, 2009. A taped audio replay of the conference call will also be available at (706) 645-9291(conference number: 39996231) beginning at 5:30 p.m. MDT today and continuing until 5:30 p.m. MDT on April 9, 2008.
 
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAMs, NAND flash memory, CMOS image sensors, other semiconductor components, and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron visit .
www.micron.com
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures (6)
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL SUMMARY, Continued
 


