FILE:MU/MU-8K-20081015170714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 9, 2008, the Micron Technology, Inc. (the Company) announced a plan to restructure its memory operations in response to the challenging global environment for technology products.  As a part of the restructure plan, the Company and its NAND Flash memory joint venture partner, Intel Corporation, have agreed to shutdown production of NAND Flash from the Companys 200mm wafer fabrication facility in Boise, Idaho.  The Company plans to reduce its global workforce by approximately 15 percent during the next two years.
The Company expects cash costs associated with the restructure plan to approximate $60 million, and the resulting annual benefit to cash operating margin to approximate $175 million.  The Company anticipates incurring restructure charges at least through the remainder of fiscal 2009, but is unable to estimate the aggregate amount of the charges.
The Companys press release related to the restructuring is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to the Current Report of Form 8K.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements regarding future restructure charges. Actual events or results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to the documents the Company files on a consolidated basis from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically the Company's most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results for the Company on a consolidated basis to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements (see Certain Factors). Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform to actual results.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 In response to a challenging global environment for technology products,  Micron Technology, Inc., today announced a restructuring of its memory operations.
BOISE, Idaho, Oct. 9, 2008
The combination of declining customer demand and product oversupply in the marketplace has driven selling prices for NAND flash memory significantly below manufacturing costs, particularly for 200 millimeter (mm) manufacturing lines. As a result, IM Flash Technologies (IMFT), a joint venture between Micron and Intel Corporation, will discontinue the supply of NAND flash memory from Microns Boise facility. The NAND operation shutdown will reduce IMFTs NAND flash production by approximately 35,000 wafers (200mm) per month.
As part of the restructuring, Micron plans to reduce its global workforce by approximately 15 percent during the next two years. The majority of the workforce reductions, which will begin with a voluntary program, will occur in Boise as a result of the NAND operation shutdown. Micron is committed to assisting employees affected by the workforce reductions and is providing severance and outplacement services.
Micron is in a strong position relative to our competitors, as evidenced by our balance sheet and cash flow, but we are not immune to the difficult global market conditions that are affecting us all, said Steve Appleton, Micron Chairman and CEO. Operation shutdowns and related workforce reductions are always painful, but we are pursuing these actions to maintain the competitiveness of the company.
Cash restructuring and other related expenses are anticipated to be approximately $60 million, and the next years cash operating margin benefit is expected to exceed $175 million.
 
About Micron
Micron Technology, Inc. is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAMs, NAND flash memory, CMOS image sensors, other semiconductor components, and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking, and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit .
www.micron.com
Micron and the Micron orbit logo are trademarks of Micron Technology, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding reductions in NAND production levels, the number of employees affected by the restructuring of the Companys memory operations, cash restructuring and other related expenses and the next years cash operating margin benefit. Actual events or results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to the documents the Company files on a consolidated basis from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically the Company's most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results for the Company on a consolidated basis to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements (see Certain Factors). Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform to actual results.


