FILE:MU/MU-8K-20091218100144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
o
 
1
 
On December 18, 2009, Micron Technology, Inc., (Company), provided written notice to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) that the Company expects to voluntarily cease trading on the NYSE, prior to the opening of trading on December 30, 2009, and intends to transfer its listing to the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) to commence trading on December 30, 2009.  The Companys common stock has been approved for listing on NASDAQ, and will continue to trade under the stock symbol MU.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company in connection with its move from the NYSE to NASDAQ is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
4
 

                                                                                                                                        EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Micron Technology, Inc., (NYSE: MU) today announced that it will voluntarily transfer its stock exchange listing from The New York Stock Exchange to the NASDAQ Global Select Market, a market of The NASDAQ OMX Group, (NASDAQ: NDAQ), effective Dec. 30, 2009.
BOISE, Idaho, Dec. 18, 2009
 
Microns stock will continue to trade under the ticker symbol MU.
 
With many of the technology companies in our industry already traded on the NASDAQ, Micron believes as an innovative semiconductor company that the NASDAQ represents the best fit for the company and our shareholders,  said Steve Appleton, Micron Chairman and CEO.
 
Micron is a world-leading semiconductor manufacturer providing innovative solutions for products and services that improve our everyday lives, said Bob Greifeld, Chief Executive Officer, NASDAQ OMX. NASDAQ OMX is the market of choice for forward thinking global companies such as Micron, and we look forward to supporting the company through our transparent electronic trading, our public company support services and our global visibility platform.
 
Micron Technology, Inc. is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAM, NAND flash memory, CMOS image sensors, other semiconductor components, and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking, and mobile products. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit .
www.micron.com
 
Micron and the Micron orbit logo are trademarks of Micron Technology, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 


