FILE:MU/MU-8K-20090625160151.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
On June 25, 2009, the Company announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 4, 2009.  The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
In response to a severe downturn in the semiconductor memory industry and global economic conditions, the Company initiated restructure plans in 2009. In the first quarter of 2009, IM Flash, a joint venture between the Company and Intel, terminated its agreement with the Company to obtain NAND Flash memory supply from the Companys Boise facility, reducing the Companys NAND Flash production by approximately 35,000 200mm wafers per month. In addition, the Company and Intel agreed to suspend tooling and the ramp of NAND Flash production at IM Flashs Singapore wafer fabrication facility. On February 23, 2009, the Company announced that it will phase out all remaining 200mm wafer manufacturing operations at its Boise, Idaho, facility, reducing employment there by as many as 2,000 positions by the end of fiscal 2009.
As a result of these actions, the Company recorded a net $66 million credit to restructure in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, and restructure charges of $105 million and $19 million in the second quarter and third quarter of fiscal 2009, respectively, primarily attributable to the Companys Memory segment. The net credit in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 includes a $144 million gain in connection with the termination of the NAND Flash supply agreement, charges of $56 million to reduce the carrying value of certain 200mm wafer manufacturing equipment at its Boise, Idaho facility and charges of $22 million for severance and other termination benefits. The charge in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 includes charges of $87 million to reduce the carrying value of certain 200mm wafer manufacturing equipment at its Boise, Idaho facility and charges of $17 million for severance and other termination benefits. The charge in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 includes charges of $11 million for severance and other termination benefits and $7 million of additional asset write-downs. Excluding any gains or losses from sales of equipment, the Company expects to incur additional restructure costs through fiscal 2009 of approximately $7 million, comprised primarily of severance and other employee related costs.
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements regarding future restructure charges.  Actual events or results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  Please refer to the documents the Company files on a consolidated basis from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically the Company's most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.  These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results for the Company on a consolidated basis to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements (see Risk Factors).  Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.  We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform to actual results.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
, June 25, 2009  Micron Technology, Inc., (NYSE: MU) today announced results of operations for the companys third quarter of fiscal 2009, which ended June 4, 2009. For the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the company posted a net loss of $290 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, on net sales of $1.1 billion. The company ended the quarter with cash and investments of $1.3 billion.
BOISE, Idaho
 
Revenue from sales of DRAM products increased 14 percent in the third quarter compared to the second quarter principally due to an increase in sales volumes for DRAM products. Revenue from sales of NAND Flash products was flat in the third quarter compared to the second quarter. Significant cost reductions in NAND Flash production contributed to comparably lower average selling prices to Intel Corporation, the companys IM Flash joint venture partner. However, the effects of these lower average selling prices to Intel were offset by an overall 20 percent increase in NAND Flash sales volume and a significant increase in average selling prices to all other trade customers.
 
Memory production in the third quarter was significantly higher compared to the preceding quarter. Increases in bit production resulted from the companys continued transition to higher density 34 nanometer (nm) NAND Flash products and 50nm DRAM products.
 
The companys gross margin on sales of memory products improved from negative 30 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 to positive 11 percent in the third quarter, resulting from significant decreases in per gigabit manufacturing costs and the benefit in the third quarter from sales of products previously written down. As a result of these decreases in per gigabit manufacturing costs and increases in average selling prices, there was no lower of cost or market write-down of memory inventories during the third quarter. Cost of goods sold in the third quarter includes approximately $30 million of charges for unused production capacity at the companys Inotera and IM Flash joint ventures and an estimated benefit of $242 million from sales in the third quarter of products written down in previous periods.
 
 
Sales of CMOS image sensors in the third quarter increased 53 percent compared to the preceding quarter as a result of a significant increase in unit sales. The companys gross margin on sales of CMOS image sensors was two percent in the third quarter and continues to be negatively impacted by underutilization of dedicated 200mm manufacturing capacity. In the third quarter, the company announced the signing of an agreement to sell a majority interest in its Aptina imaging solutions business, which is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter. In connection with the sale, the company recorded a $53 million charge, the estimated loss on the transaction, to write down the value of Aptina assets now classified as held for sale.
 
The company will host a conference call today at 2:30 p.m. MDT to discuss its financial results. The call, audio and slides will be available online at . A webcast replay will be available on the companys web site until June 25, 2010. A taped audio replay of the conference call will also be available at (706) 645-9291(conference number: 14636400) beginning at 5:30 p.m. MDT today and continuing until 5:30 p.m. MDT on July 2, 2009.
www.micron.com
 
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAM, NAND Flash memory, CMOS image sensors, other semiconductor components, and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit .
www.micron.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the timing of the sale of a majority interest in the Companys Aptina imaging solutions business and estimated loss. Actual events or results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to the documents the Company files on a consolidated basis from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically the Company's most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results for the Company on a consolidated basis to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements (see Risk Factors). Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform to actual results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL SUMMARY, Continued
The companys third quarters of fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 and second quarter of fiscal 2009 included 13 weeks. The companys first nine months of fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 included 40 weeks and 39 weeks, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 


