FILE:MU/MU-8K-20091001163312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
o
 
 
 
On September 25, 2009, the Companys joint venture subsidiary TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. (TECH) entered into an Amendment Agreement with Citicorp Investment Bank (Singapore) Limited, as Facility Agent, with an effective date of September 28, 2009 (the Amendment), that amended TECHs US$600,000,000 Facility Agreement, dated 31 March 2008, by and among (1) TECH, as borrower, (2) ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Citibank, N.A., Singapore Branch/ Citigroup Global Markets Singapore Pte Ltd, DBS Bank Ltd and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited, together as original mandated lead arrangers, (3) Citicorp Investment Bank (Singapore) Limited, as facility agent, (4) ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Singapore Branch, as security trustee, and (5) the Banks (as defined therein) (the Facility Agreement).
The Amendment, among other things, replaced Clause 17.1 of the Facility Agreement, thereby modifying the Net Debt to Equity, Liquidity Ratio and Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR) financial condition covenants.  In addition, the Amendment replaced Clause 18.13.2 of the Facility Agreement, thereby modifying the conditions under which the Company would be released from its Guarantee (defined below).
In connection with the Amendment, on September 25, 2009, the Company entered into a Supplemental Deed with ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Singapore Branch, acting as Security Trustee, with an effective date of September 28, 2009 (the Supplemental Deed), that amended the Guarantee, dated March 31, 2008, provided by the Company in connection with TECHs entering into the Facility Agreement (the Guarantee).
Among other things, the Supplemental Deed (i) replaced the definition of Micron Proportion at Clause 1.2 of the Guarantee; (ii) replaced Clause 2.3, Limitation of Liability, of the Guarantee, thereby modifying the Companys liability limits under the Guarantee; and (iii) replaced Clause 2.4, Release of Guarantee, of the Guarantee, thereby modifying the conditions under which the Company would be released from its Guarantee.
As originally contemplated in the TECH formation documents, the term of the TECH shareholders agreement expires on April 11, 2011.  Currently, the Company has an 85.3% interest in TECH, Hewlett-Packard Company (HP) has a 3.7% interest in TECH and Canon, Inc. has an 11% interest in TECH.  TECH has received notice from HP that it does not intend to extend the TECH joint venture beyond April 11, 2011.  The Company is engaged in discussions with the TECH shareholders to reach an agreement regarding the ownership and operation of TECH after April 11, 2011.  If the parties are unable to reach a resolution of this matter prior to April 11, 2011, it could result in a default of the Facility Agreement by TECH.
The foregoing descriptions of the amendments to the Facility Agreement and Guarantee are only summaries and do not purport to be complete. The summaries are qualified in their entirety by reference to the actual agreements, which are included as exhibits to this current report.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Allen&Gledhill
 
ADVOCATES & SOLICITORS
 
Execution version
 
                 2 5 SEP 2009
Dated
 
 
 
               TECH SEMICONDUCTOR SINGAPORE PTE. LTD.
 
as Borrower
 
and
 
            CITICORP INVESTMENT BANK (SINGAPORE) LIMITED
 
as Facility Agent
 
             AMENDMENT AGREEMENT
 
                          (being supplemental to the US$600,000,000 Facility Agreement
                                                                                                           dated 31 March 2008)
 
ALLEN & GLEDHILL LLP
 
ONE MARINA BOULEVARD #28-00 SINGAPORE 018989
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
                                                                                                                    -i- 
 
 
This Amendment Agreement is made on 
 between:
 25
SEP
2009
 
           TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. (company registration number: 199102059C)
(1)
    (the "Borrower"), as borrower; and
 
(2)           Citicorp Investment Bank (Singapore) Limited (the "Facility Agent"), as facility agent,
 
 
and is supplemental to a US$600,000,000 Facility Agreement dated 31 March 2008 (the "Original
Facility Agreement") made between (1) the Borrower, as borrower, (2) ABN AMRO Bank N.V.,
Citibank, N.A., Singapore Branch/ Citigroup Global Markets Singapore Pte Ltd, DBS Bank Ltd and
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited, together as original mandated lead arrangers, (3)
the Facility Agent, as facility agent, (4) ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Singapore Branch (the "Security
Trustee"), as security trustee, and (5) the Banks (as defined therein).
 
Whereas:
 
(A)         Pursuant to the Original Facility Agreement, the Banks agreed to grant to the Borrower a
term loan facility of up to US$600,000,000, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of
the Original Facility Agreement.
 
(B)         The Borrower has requested the Facility Agent, who has (upon the instructions of the
Instructing Group (as defined in the Original Facility Agreement)) agreed, on the terms and
subject to the conditions of this Amendment Agreement, to amend and supplement the
Original Facility Agreement in the manner set out in this Amendment Agreement.
 
It is agreed as follows:
 
 
1.          Definitions and Interpretation
 
        Definitions
1.1
 
Unless otherwise defined or construed in this Amendment Agreement and except where
the context otherwise requires, all terms and references used in the Original Facility
Agreement shall have the same meaning and construction in this Amendment Agreement
and, in addition:
 
"Effective Date" has the meaning given to it in Clause 4.1 (Conditions
Precedent).
 
"Party" means a party to this Amendment Agreement.
 
"Supplemental Deed" means the Supplemental Deed relating to the Micron Corporate
Guarantee, dated on or about the date of this Amendment Agreement and entered into
between Micron and the Security Trustee.
 
1.2       Headings
 
Unless otherwise stated, references to "Clauses" and the "Schedule" are to be construed
as references to the clauses of, and the schedule to, this Amendment Agreement.
 
1
 
 
 
 
1.3           Third Party Rights
 
1.3.1        Other than the Finance Parties or as expressly provided to the contrary in this
Amendment Agreement, a person who is not a Party has no right under the
Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act, Chapter 53B of Singapore to enforce or to
enjoy the benefit of any term of this Amendment Agreement.
 
1.3.2        Notwithstanding any terms of this Amendment Agreement, the consent of any
third party is not required for any variation (including any release or compromise of
any liability under) or termination of this Amendment Agreement.
 
2.          Incorporation
 
2.1          Preservation of the Original Facility Agreement
 
Except to the extent expressly amended by the provisions of this Amendment Agreement,
the terms and conditions of the Original Facility Agreement are hereby confirmed and shall
remain in full force and effect.
 
2.2           Agreement Supplemental
 
The Original Facility Agreement and this Amendment Agreement shall be read and
construed as one document and this Amendment Agreement shall be considered to be
part of the Original Facility Agreement and, without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing, where the context so allows, references in the Original Facility Agreement to
"this Agreement", howsoever expressed, shall be read and construed as references to
the Original Facility Agreement as amended and supplemented by this Amendment
Agreement.
 
2.3          Designation as a Finance Document
 
Each Party acknowledges and agrees that each of this Amendment Agreement and the
Supplemental Deed is designated as a "Finance Document" within the meaning of that
expression in the Original Facility Agreement.
 
3.             Amendments to the Original Facility Agreement
 
The Parties agree that, with effect from the Effective Date, the Original Facility Agreement
shall be amended as follows:
 
3.1          by deleting Clause 17.1  of the Original Facility Agreement in its
(Financial Condition)
entirety and substituting the same with the following new Clause 17.1
(Financial Condition):
 
"17.1       Financial Condition
 
The Borrower shall ensure that its financial condition shall be such that:
 
17.1.1    the ratio of its Net Debt to Equity, measured at the end of each quarter of
its financial years and as evidenced by its then unaudited quarterly
financial statements prepared in US dollars for that quarter, is:
 
-2--
 
 
 
 
          for each quarter ending on or before 3 December 2009, no more
(a)
   than 0.8:1;
 
(b)          for the quarter ending on 4 March 2010, no more than 0.75:1;
 
(c)          for the quarter ending on 3 June 2010, no more than 0.7:1;
 
(d)          for the quarter ending on 2 September 2010, no more than 0.6:1;
    and
 
(e)          for each quarter ending on or after 3 September 2010, no more
   than 0.5:1.
 
17.1.2      its Liquidity Ratio, measured at the end of each quarter of its financial
years and as evidenced by its then unaudited quarterly financial
statements prepared in US dollars for that quarter, is:
 
(a)          for each quarter ending on or before 3 September 2009, at least
   1.2:1;
 
(b)         for the quarter ending on 3 December 2009, at least 1.7:1;
 
(c)         for the quarter ending on 4 March 2010, at least 1.6:1;
 
(d)         for the quarter ending on 3 June 2010, at least 1.5:1; and
 
(e)         for each quarter ending on or after 4 June 2010, at least 1.4:1;
  and
 
17.1.3      its DSCR, measured at the end of each quarter of its financial years and
as evidenced by financial projections (prepared by the Borrower and
delivered to the Facility Agent pursuant to Clause 16.4 
(Compliance
Certificates)),
is:
 
(a)           for each quarter ending on or before 3 September 2009, at least
    1.1:1;
 
(b)           for each quarter thereafter ending on or before 2 September
    2010, at least 1.5:1; and
 
(c)           for each quarter ending on or after 3 September 2010, at least
1.4:1."; and
 
3.2           by deleting Clause 18.13.2 of the Original Facility Agreement in its entirety and substituting
the same with the following new Clause 18.13.2:
 
18.13.2                        If the conditions in Clause 2.4 of the Guarantee (as amended, varied,
novated or supplemented from time to time including, without limitation,
pursuant to the Supplemental Deed dated 25 September 2009 entered
into between Micron and the Security Agent), have been satisfied, the
Security Trustee shall at the cost and request of the Borrower, discharge
and release Micron from its obligations under the Micron Corporate
Guarantee (without prejudice to accrued obligations) provided that on or
prior to such release and discharge by the Security Trustee, each of the
 
-3-
 
 
 
 
     Micron Security Documents and the Security created pursuant thereto has
     been released and discharged to the satisfaction of the Security Trustee.".
 
4.             Effective Date
 
4.1           Conditions Precedent
 
    The amendment of the Original Facility Agreement in accordance with Clause
 
3 
    (Amendments to the Original Facility Agreement)
shall take effect on and from the date
   
(the "Effective Date") that the Facility Agent notifies the Borrower that the Facility Agent
   
has received all of the documents and evidence listed in the Schedule
(Conditions
    Precedent)
in form and substance satisfactory to the Facility Agent. The Facility Agent shall
    notify the Borrower promptly upon being so satisfied.
 
4.2           Failure to satisfy Conditions Precedent
 
If the Facility Agent has not received all the documents and evidence referred to in Clause
by the close of business on 8 October 2009 (or such later date
4.1
 
(Conditions Precedent)
as the Facility Agent may agree (acting on the instructions of the Instructing Group)), this
Amendment Agreement shall terminate.
 
4.3           Rights of Finance Parties
 
Upon termination of this Amendment Agreement under Clause 4.2 ( to satisfy
Failure
Precedent), the outstanding indebtedness under the Original Facility Agreement
Conditions
shall remain governed by and be payable, guaranteed and secured in accordance with the
provisions of the Original Facility Agreement, the other Finance Documents and all other
related documents.
 
5.             Amendment Fee
 
The Borrower shall pay to the Facility Agent an amendment fee on the date (the
"Amendment Fee Payment Date") which is the later of (a) the Effective Date and (b) 8
October 2009, in an amount which is the aggregate of 0.45 per cent of the Loan
outstanding on the Amendment Fee Payment Date. The amendment fee paid by the
Borrower under this Clause 5 shall be for the account of each Lender, pro rata to its
participation in the Loan outstanding on the Amendment Fee Payment Date.
 
6.             Representations
 
6.1           Representations on the date of this Amendment Agreement
 
On the date of this Amendment Agreement, the Borrower makes each of the
Repeating Representations and the representations in Clauses 15.15
(Validity and
15.17 Stamp Taxes) and Clause 15.21
admissibility in evidence),
(Filing and
(Private and
Acts) of the Original Facility Agreement, to the Finance Parties as if each
Commercial
reference therein to "this Agreement", "Finance Document" or "Finance Documents"
includes a reference to this Amendment Agreement and each reference to "Security
Document" or "Security Documents" includes a reference to the Supplemental Deed,
 
-4-
 
 
 
 
and acknowledges that the Facility Agent has entered into this Amendment Agreement in
reliance on those representations and warranties.
 
6.2              Representations on the Effective Date
 
On the Effective Date, the Borrower makes each of the Repeating Representations
and the representations in Clauses 15.15
(Validity and admissibility in evidence),
15.17
(Filing and Stamp
Taxes) and Clause 15.21
(Private and Commercial Acts)
of the Original
Facility Agreement as amended and supplemented by this Amendment Agreement, to the
Finance Parties as if each reference therein to "this Agreement" includes a reference to
the Original Facility Agreement as amended and supplemented by this Amendment
Agreement, each reference to "Security Document" or "Security Documents" includes
a reference to the Micron Corporate Guarantee as amended and supplemented by the
Supplemental Deed and each reference to "Finance Document" or "Finance
Documents" includes a reference to each of the Original Facility Agreement and the
Micron Corporate Guarantee as amended and supplemented by this Amendment
Agreement and the Supplemental Deed respectively.
 
7.                 Confirmation
 
The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally confirms that the respective terms
and conditions of the Original Facility Agreement, each of the Security Documents and
each other Finance Document to which it is a party are and shall continue to apply and
shall remain in full force and effect and binding on it, and that all of the Security expressed
to be created by each of the Security Documents to which it is a party are and shall
continue in full force and effect, notwithstanding the provisions of this Amendment
Agreement or the performance or non-performance by any person of any of its obligations
under the Original Facility Agreement (as amended and supplemented by this Amendment
Agreement), any of the Security Documents or any other Finance Document.
 
8.                Expenses and Stamp Duty
 
The Borrower shall:
 
        from time to time on demand of the Facility Agent, reimburse the Facility Agent,
8.1.1
the Security Trustee and each of the Original Mandated Lead Arrangers for all
reasonable costs and expenses (including but not limited to legal and
documentation fees), together with any GST thereon incurred by it in connection
with the negotiation, preparation and execution of this Amendment Agreement and
any other document referred to in this Amendment Agreement; and
 
8.1.2        pay all stamp, registration and other taxes to which this Amendment Agreement or
    any other document referred to in this Amendment Agreement is subject and shall,
  from time to time on demand of the Facility Agent, indemnify the Finance Parties
against any liabilities, costs, claims and expenses resulting from any failure to pay
or any delay in paying any such tax.
 
-5-
 
 
 
 
9.                 Counterparts
 
This Amendment Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of
which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
10.               Governing Law
 
This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by Singapore law.
 
11.               Jurisdiction
 
11.1             Singapore Courts
 
The courts of Singapore have jurisdiction to settle any dispute (a "Dispute") arising out of
or in connection with this Amendment Agreement (including a dispute regarding the
existence, validity or termination of this Amendment Agreement or the consequences of its
nullity).
 
11.2             Convenient Forum
 
The Borrower waives any objection it might now or hereafter have to the courts referred to
in Clause 11.1 being nominated to settle Disputes and accordingly,
(Singapore Courts)
agrees that they will not argue to the contrary.
 
    11.3             Non-exclusive Jurisdiction
 
The submission to the jurisdiction of the courts referred to in Clause 11.1 shall not (and
shall not be construed so as to) limit the right of each of the Finance Parties to take
proceedings against the Borrower or, the Borrower to take proceedings against the
Finance Parties or any one or more of them or any other party, in any other court of
competent jurisdiction nor shall the taking of proceedings in any one or more jurisdictions
preclude the taking of proceedings in any other jurisdiction (whether concurrently or not) if
and to the extent permitted by applicable law.
 
    This Amendment Agreement has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of
this Amendment Agreement.
 
-6-
 
 
 
 
Schedule
 
- Conditions Precedent
 
1.            Corporate Authorisations
 
1.1          A copy of the constitutional documents of each of the Borrower and Micron, certified true
by a duly authorised officer of the relevant Obligor (unless the relevant Obligor certifies
and confirms to the Facility Agent that each of the copies of its constitutional documents
already delivered to, and held by, the Facility Agent are up-to-date copies of its
constitutional documents).
 
1.2          A copy or an extract of the resolution of the board of directors of each of the Borrower and
 Micron approving the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment Agreement
 or, as the case may be, the Supplemental Deed, and the terms and conditions thereof and
 authorising a named person or persons to sign such document and any documents to be
 delivered pursuant thereto, certified true by a duly authorised officer of the relevant
 Obligor.
 
1.3          A certificate of a duly authorised officer of each of the Borrower and Micron setting out the
 names and signatures of the persons authorised to sign, on behalf of that Obligor, this
               
Amendment Agreement or, as the case may be, the Supplemental Deed and any
 documents to be delivered pursuant thereto.
 
1.4          A certificate as to the existence and good standing of Micron from the appropriate
 governmental authorities in the State of Delaware, The United States of America.
 
2.           Authorisations and Consents
 
A copy, certified as true by and on behalf each Obligor, of each such licence, approval,
registration or declaration as is, in the opinion of counsel to the Finance Parties, necessary 
to render each of this Amendment Agreement and the Supplemental Deed legal, valid,
binding and enforceable on the relevant Obligor and admissible in evidence in any
applicable jurisdiction and enable each of the parties to such documents to perform its
obligations thereunder (or, if the Facility Agent so requires, confirmation by a duly
authorised officer of the relevant Obligor that no such documents are required).
 
3.            Supplemental Documents
 
3.1          Each of this Amendment Agreement and the Supplemental Deed, duly executed by each
    p
arty thereto and, where appropriate, duly stamped and presented for registration with all
    appropriate authorities.
 
3.2          Evidence of the acceptance of the appointment of the process agent referred to in the
   
Supplemental Deed.
 
4.            Opinions
 
4.1          A legal opinion from Allen & Gledhill, Singapore counsel to the Finance Parties.
 
4.2          A legal opinion from Moffatt, Thomas, Barrett, Rock & Fields, Chartered, U.S. legal
   counsel to Micron.
 
-  7-
 
 
 
 
5.           Costs and Expenses
 
  Evidence that the fees, costs and expenses then due from the Borrower pursuant to
  Clause 8 have been paid.
(Expenses and Stamp Duty)
 
 
 
-8-
 
 
 
 
In witness whereof this Amendment Agreement has been entered into on the date stated at
the beginning.
 
The Borrower
 
TECH SEMICONDUCTOR SINGAPORE PTE. LTD.
 
By:  /s/ Lee Kok Choy
 
-9-
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent
 
CITICORP INVESTMENT BANK (SINGAPORE) LIMITED
 
By:  /s/ Rebecca Yung
 
-0-
1

 
Allen & Gledhill
 
ADVOCATES & SOLICITORS
 
Execution version
 
                  
Dated
25 SEP 2009
 
       MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
as Guarantor
 
and
 
           ABN AMRO BANK N.V., SINGAPORE BRANCH
 
acting as Security Trustee
 
SUPPLEMENTAL DEED
 
                  (being supplemental to the Guarantee dated 31 March 2008)
 
ALLEN & GLEDHILL LLP
 
ONE MARINA BOULEVARD #28-00
 
SINGAPORE 018989
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
Contents                                                                                                                 Page
 
1.           Definitions and Interpretation                                                                     1
 
2.           Incorporation                                                                                                 2
 
3.           Amendments to the Original Guarantee                                                     2
 
4.           Representations                                                                                             4
5.           Confirmation                                                                                                   4
 
6.           Expenses and Stamp Duty                                                                            4
 
7.           Counterparts                                                                                                   5
 
8.           Governing Law                                                                                               5
 
9.           Jurisdiction                                                                                                     5
 
 
 
 
This Supplemental Deed is made on 
 between:
25
SEP
2009
 
           MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC., a corporation established under the laws of the State of
(1)
Delaware, U.S.A. (the "Guarantor"); in favour of
 
(2)           ABN AMRO BANK N.V., SINGAPORE BRANCH, as security trustee for and on behalf of
the Beneficiaries (as defined in the Original Guarantee, defined below) (the "Security
Trustee"),
 
and is supplemental to a Guarantee dated 31 March 2008 (the "Original Guarantee") made
between (1) the Guarantor, as guarantor and (2) the Security Trustee, as security trustee.
 
Whereas:
 
(A)         Pursuant to a US$600,000,000 Facility Agreement dated 31 March 2008 (the "Original
Facility Agreement") made between (1) TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd., as
borrower, (2) ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Citibank, N.A., Singapore Branch/ Citigroup Global
Markets Singapore Pte Ltd, DBS Bank Ltd and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation
Limited, together as original mandated lead arrangers, (3) Citicorp Investment Bank
(Singapore) Limited, as facility agent, (4) the Security Trustee, as security trustee, and (5)
the Banks (as defined therein), the Banks agreed to grant to the Borrower a term loan
facility of up to US$600,000,000, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the Original
Facility Agreement.
 
(B)          Pursuant to an amendment agreement (the "Amendment Agreement"), dated on or about
 the date of this Supplemental Deed, made between (1) the Borrower, as borrower, and (2)
 the Facility Agent, as agent for the other Finance Parties, the Borrower and the Finance
 Parties have agreed to amend and supplement the Original Facility Agreement, upon the
 terms and subject to the conditions of the Amendment Agreement.
 
(C)           It is a condition precedent to the amendments to the Original Facility Agreement pursuant to
the Amendment Agreement taking effect that, alia, this Supplemental Deed duly
inter
executed by the Guarantor be delivered to the Facility Agent.
 
It is agreed as follows:
 
 
1.          Definitions and Interpretation
 
1.1          Definitions
 
Unless otherwise defined or construed in this Supplemental Deed and except where the
context otherwise requires, all terms and references used in the Original Facility
Agreement, the Original Guarantee and the Amendment Agreement shall have the same
meaning and construction in this Supplemental Deed and, in addition:
 
"Effective Date" has the meaning given to it in Clause 4.1  of the
(Conditions Precedent)
Amendment Agreement.
 
"Party" means a party to this Agreement.
 
-   1   -
 
 
 
 
1.2          Headings
 
Unless otherwise stated, references to "Clauses" are to be construed as references to the
clauses of this Supplemental Deed.
 
1.3          Third Party Rights
 
        Other than the Finance Parties or as expressly provided to the contrary in this
1.3.1
Supplemental Deed, a person who is not a party to this Supplemental Deed has
no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act, Chapter 53B of
Singapore to enforce or to enjoy the benefit of any term of this Supplemental
Deed.
 
        Notwithstanding any terms of this Supplemental Deed, the consent of any third
1.3.2
party is not required for any variation (including any release or compromise of any
liability under) or termination of this Supplemental Deed.
 
2.            Incorporation
 
2.1          Preservation of the Original Guarantee
 
Except to the extent expressly amended by the provisions of this Supplemental Deed, the
terms and conditions of the Original Guarantee are hereby confirmed and shall remain in
full force and effect.
 
2.2          Agreement Supplemental
 
The Original Guarantee and this Supplemental Deed shall be read and construed as one
document and this Supplemental Deed shall be considered to be part of the Original
Guarantee and, without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, where the context so
allows, references in the Original Guarantee to "this Deed", howsoever expressed, shall
be read and construed as references to the Original Guarantee as amended, modified and
supplemented by this Supplemental Deed.
 
3.            Amendments to the Original Guarantee
 
The Parties agree that, with effect from the Effective Date, the Original Guarantee shall be
amended as follows:
 
3.1           by deleting the definition of "Micron Proportion" in Clause 1.2 of the Original Guarantee in
its entirety and substituting the same with the following new definition:
 
Micron Proportion" means:
 
(a)           at any time prior to 11 April 2010:
 
(i)           85.31 per cent.; or
 
(ii)          the percentage of the total issued share capital of the Borrower which is
   owned directly or indirectly by Micron,
 
whichever is higher; and
 
-2-
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)           at all times thereafter, 100 per cent.";
 
3.2          by deleting Clause 2.3 of the Original Guarantee in its entirety and
(Limitation of Liability)
substituting the same with the following new Clause 2.3
(Limitation of Liability):
 
"2.3         Limitation of Liability
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Deed or in any other Finance
Document, the maximum liability of the Guarantor at any time under this Clause 2
shall in no event exceed the lesser of:
 
2.3.1        the Micron Proportion of the amount of the Secured Obligations at that
time; and
 
2.3.2        an amount equal to the greatest amount that would not render the
Guarantor's obligations hereunder and under the other Finance
Documents subject to avoidance under US Bankruptcy Law or to being
set aside, avoided or annulled under any Fraudulent Transfer Law.
 
For the purposes of this Clause 2.3, "Fraudulent Transfer Law" means any
applicable US Bankruptcy Law or any applicable US state fraudulent transfer or
conveyance law, and "US Bankruptcy Law' means the United States Bankruptcy
Code of 1978 (Title 11 of the United States Code) or any other United States
Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law."; and
 
3.3          by deleting Clause 2.4 (Release of the Original Guarantee in its entirety and
of Guarantee)
substituting the same with the following new Clause 2.4 (Release
of Guarantee):
 
"2.4         Release of Guarantee
 
If:
 
2.4.1           (i) the ratio of the Borrower's Net Debt to Equity, the Borrower's Liquidity
     Ratio and the Borrower's DSCR measured in accordance with Clause
17.1  of the Facility Agreement for the financial
(Financial Condition)
quarter ending on 2 December 2010 complies with the requirements of
Clause 17.1 of the Facility Agreement and (ii) the
(Financial Condition)
Borrower is in compliance with its obligations under Clause 28.7
(Debt
of the Facility Agreement up to and on 2
Service Deposit Accounts)
December 2010 (both (i) and (ii) shall be confirmed by the Facility Agent
(acting on the instructions of the Instructing Group) to the Security
Trustee), and
 
2.4.2           (i) a Non-extension Event had not occurred on 11 October 2009 or (ii) on
   11 October 2009, a Non-extension Event had occurred but that Non-
  extension is no longer continuing and, in each case, at such point in time,
  a Non-extension Event is not capable of occurring,
 
the Security Trustee shall at the cost and request of the Guarantor, discharge and
release the Guarantor from its obligations under this Deed (without prejudice to
accrued obligations) provided that on or prior to such release and discharge by
the Security Trustee, each of the Micron Security Documents and the
 
-3-
 
 
 
 
Encumbrance created pursuant thereto has been released and discharged to the
satisfaction of the Security Trustee.".
 
4.            Representations
 
4.1          Representations on the date of this Supplemental Deed
 
On the date of this Supplemental Deed, the Guarantor makes each of the
representations in Clause 3 of the Original Guarantee
(Representations and Warranties)
to the Security Trustee, as security trustee for the benefit of the Beneficiaries as if each
reference therein to "this Deed" includes a reference to this Supplemental Deed and each
reference to "Finance Document" or "Finance Documents" includes a reference to this
Supplemental Deed and the Amendment Agreement, and acknowledges that the Security
Trustee has entered into this Supplemental Deed in reliance on those representations and
    warranties.
 
4.2          Representations on the Effective Date
 
On the Effective Date, the Guarantor makes each of the representations in Clause 3
of the Original Guarantee to the Security Trustee, as
(Representations and Warranties)
security trustee for the benefit of the Beneficiaries as if each reference therein to "this
Deed" includes a reference to the Original Guarantee as amended and supplemented by
this Supplemental Deed, each reference to the "Facility Agreement" includes a reference
to the Original Facility Agreement as amended and supplemented by the Amendment
Agreement and each reference to "Finance Document" or "Finance Documents"
includes a reference to each of the Original Facility Agreement and the Original Guarantee
as amended and supplemented by the Amendment Agreement and this Supplemental
Deed respectively.
 
5.            Confirmation
 
The Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally confirms that the respective terms
and conditions of each of the Security Documents and each other Finance Document to
which it is a party are and shall continue to apply and shall remain in full force and effect
and binding on it, notwithstanding the provisions of this Supplemental Deed or the
performance or non-performance by any person of any of its obligations under the Original
Guarantee (as amended and supplemented by this Supplemental Deed), any of the
Security Documents or any other Finance Document.
 
6.            Expenses and Stamp Duty
 
To the extent not paid by the Borrower, the Guarantor shall:
 
        from time to time on demand of the Security Trustee, reimburse the Facility Agent,
6.1.1
the Security Trustee and each of the Original Mandated Lead Arrangers for all
reasonable costs and expenses (including but not limited to legal and
documentation fees), together with any GST thereon incurred by it in connection
 
-4-
 
 
 
 
with the negotiation, preparation and execution of this Supplemental Deed and
any other document referred to in this Supplemental Deed or the Amendment
Agreement; and
 
        pay all stamp, registration and other taxes to which this Supplemental Deed or any
6.
1.2
other document referred to in this Supplemental Deed or the Amendment
Agreement is subject and shall, from time to time on demand of the Security
Trustee, indemnify the Finance Parties against any liabilities, costs, claims and
expenses resulting from any failure to pay or any delay in paying any such tax.
 
7.             Counterparts
 
This Supplemental Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which
taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
8.            Governing Law
 
This Supplemental Deed shall be governed by Singapore law.
 
9.            Jurisdiction
 
9.1          Singapore Courts
 
The courts of Singapore have jurisdiction to settle any dispute (a "Dispute") arising out of
or in connection with this Supplemental Deed (including a dispute regarding the existence,
validity or termination of this Supplemental Deed or the consequences of its nullity).
 
9.2           Convenient Forum
 
The Guarantor waives any objection it might now or hereafter have to the courts referred
to in Clause 9.1  being nominated to settle Disputes and accordingly,
(Singapore Courts)
agrees that they will not argue to the contrary.
 
9.3           Non-exclusive Jurisdiction
 
The submission to the jurisdiction of the courts referred to in Clause 9.1 shall not (and
shall not be construed so as to) limit the right of each of the Beneficiaries to take
proceedings against the Guarantor or, the Guarantor to take proceedings against the
Beneficiaries or any one or more of them or any other party, in any other court of
competent jurisdiction nor shall the taking of proceedings in any one or more jurisdictions
preclude the taking of proceedings in any other jurisdiction (whether concurrently or not) if
a
nd to the extent permitted by applicable law.
 
9.4           Service of Process
 
        The Guarantor irrevocably appoints Micron Semiconductor Asia Pte. Ltd. (with its
9.4.
1
address at 990 Bendemeer Road, Singapore 339942, fax no. +65 6290 3690,
attention: Managing Director) to receive, for it and on its behalf, service of process
in any Disputes in Singapore. Such service shall be deemed completed on
 
-5-
 
 
 
 
delivery to the relevant process agent (whether or not it is forwarded to and
received by the Guarantor). If for any reason a process agent ceases to be able to
act as such or no longer has an address in Singapore, the Guarantor irrevocably
agrees to appoint a substitute process agent acceptable to the Security Trustee,
and to deliver to the Security Trustee a copy of the new process agent's
acceptance of that appointment, within 30 days.
 
9.4.2       The Guarantor irrevocably consents to any process in any Disputes anywhere
being served by mailing a copy by registered post to it in accordance with Clause
17 (Notices) of the Original Guarantee. Such service shall become effective 30
days after mailing.
 
       Nothing shall affect the right to serve process in any other manner permitted by
9.4.3
law.
 
This Supplemental Deed has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of this
Supplemental Deed.
 
-6-
 
 
 
 
In witness whereof the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Supplemental Deed,
under seal, as of the day and year first above written.
 
The Guarantor
 
 
THE COMMON SEAL of
 
MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
was hereunto affixed in the presence of :
 SEAL
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
/s/ Philippe Morali
 
Authorised Officer
 
Name:  Philippe Morali
 
     Treasurer
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                        - -7-
 
 
 
 
The Security Trustee
 
SIGNED
 
by  /s/ Jessica Goh / Irene Ng
 
for and on behalf of
 
ABN AMRO BANK N.V., SINGAPORE BRANCH
 
in the presence of:  /s/Karen Heng
 
 
-8-
 


