FILE:MU/MU-8K-20100304152742.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.      Other Events.
This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed by Micron Technology, Inc. (the "Company") to retrospectively adjust portions of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 3, 2009 (the "2009 Form 10-K") reflecting changes to the Company's accounting for noncontrolling interests, certain convertible debt and its presentation of its reportable segments as described below.
 
Effective at the beginning of fiscal 2010, the Company adopted new accounting standards for noncontrolling interests and certain convertible debt instruments, which require retrospective application.  The impact of these new standards is summarized below.
  Under the new standard, noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries is (1) reported as a separate component of equity in the consolidated balance sheets and  (2) included in net income in the statement of operations.
Noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries:
  The new standard applies to convertible debt instruments that may be fully or partially settled in cash upon conversion and is applicable to the Companys 1.875% convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.3 billion issued in May 2007 (the Convertible Notes).  The standard requires the liability and equity components of the Convertible Notes to be stated separately.  The liability component recognized at the issuance of the Convertible Notes equals the estimated fair value of a similar liability without a conversion option and the remainder of the proceeds received at issuance was allocated to equity.  In connection therewith, at the May 2007 issuance of the Convertible Notes there was a $402 million decrease in debt, a $394 million increase in additional capital, and an $8 million decrease in deferred debt issuance costs (included in other noncurrent assets).  The fair value of the liability was determined using an interest rate for similar nonconvertible debt issued as of the original May 2007 issuance date by entities with credit ratings comparable to the Companys credit rating at the time of issuance.  In subsequent periods, the liability component recognized at issuance is increased to the principal amount of the Convertible Notes through the amortization of interest costs.  Through fiscal 2009, $107 million of interest was amortized.
Convertible debt instruments:
In addition, in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Companys Imaging segment no longer met the quantitative thresholds of a reportable segment and management does not expect that Imaging will meet the quantitative thresholds in future years.  As a result, Imaging is no longer considered a reportable segment and is included in the Companys All Other nonreportable segments.
The impact of the adoption of these new accounting standards and the changed presentation of the Companys reportable segments is reflected in the following sections of the 2009 Form 10-K, which are included as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 99.3, 99.4 and 99.5 (collectively, the Exhibits) to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Accordingly, the Company has revised the presentation of its noncontrolling interests, certain convertible debt and the presentation of its reportable segments to reflect these changes and has recast all comparative prior period information on this basis.  The Company is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K to reflect the impact of the adoption of these new accounting standards and the revised presentation of its reportable segments.  This will permit the Company to incorporate these financial statements by reference in future SEC filings.  This Form 8-K contains only the sections and exhibits to the 2009 Form 10-K that are being revised.  The sections of and exhibits to the 2009 Form 10-K as originally filed, which are not included herein, are unchanged and continue in full force and
 
 
effect as originally filed.  All information in this filing is as of September 3, 2009 and does not reflect events occurring after the date of the 2009 Form 10-K, other than the recasting of certain amounts as described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note and disclosures affected by the adoption the new accounting standards and the presentation of its reportable segments subsequent to the date of the 2009 Form 10-K.
Item 9.01.      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 23.1
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Forms S-3 (File Nos. 333-71620, 333-143026, 333-158473) and Forms S-8 (File Nos. 33-148357, 33-27078, 33-57887, 33-65050, 333-07283, 333-17073, 333-50353, 333-65449, 333-71249, 333-82549, 333-99271, 333-102545, 333-103341, 333-111170, 333-120620, 333-133667, 333-135459, 333-140091, 333-159711) of Micron Technology, Inc. ofour report dated October 28, 2009 except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to the effects of the change in accounting for convertible debt instruments and noncontrolling interests described in the Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards  note, which is as of March 4, 2010, relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Jose, California
March 4, 2010

 
Item 1.  
Business
The following discussion contains trend information and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in Overview regarding royalty payments from Nanya, Inoteras transition to the Companys stack process technology and gross margins from the Companys imaging wafer supply agreement with Aptina; in Products regarding increased sales of DDR3 DRAM products and growth in demand for NAND Flash products and solid-state drives; and in Manufacturing regarding the transition to smaller line-width process technologies and Inoteras transition to the Companys stack process technology.  The Companys actual results could differ materially from the Companys historical results and those discussed in the forward-looking statements.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in Item 1A. Risk Factors. All period references are to the Companys fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated.
Corporate Information
Micron Technology, Inc., and its consolidated subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to collectively as the Company), a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 1978.  The Companys executive offices are located at 8000 South Federal Way, Boise, Idaho 83716-9632 and its telephone number is (208) 368-4000.  Information about the Company is available on the internet at www.micron.com.  Copies of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to these reports, are available through the Companys website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC).  Materials filed by the Company with the SEC are also available at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.  Also available on the Companys website are its:  Corporate Governance Guidelines, Governance Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Audit Committee Charter and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.  Any amendments or waivers of the Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will also be posted on the Companys website at www.micron.com within four business days of the amendment or waiver.  Copies of these documents are available to shareholders upon request.  Information contained or referenced on the Companys website is not incorporated by reference and does not form a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  In January 2009, the Companys Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was not aware of any violation by the Company of the NYSEs Corporate Governance Listing Standards.
Overview
The Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of semiconductor devices, principally DRAM and NAND Flash memory.  In addition, the Company manufactures semiconductor components for CMOS image sensors and other semiconductor products.  The Companys products are offered in a wide variety of package and configuration options, architectures and performance characteristics tailored to meet application and customer needs.  Individual devices leverage the Companys advanced semiconductor processing technology and manufacturing expertise.  The Company aims to continually introduce new generations of products that offer lower costs per unit and improved performance characteristics.  The Companys reportable Memory segment consists of its DRAM and NAND Flash operations.  The Companys other segments, which were primarily composed of CMOS image sensor products, are not reportable and are included in All Other segments.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Segment Information.)
In 2009, 2008 and 2007, the semiconductor memory industry experienced a severe downturn due to a significant oversupply of products.  The downturn was exacerbated by global economic conditions which adversely affected demand for semiconductor memory products.  Average selling prices per gigabit for the Companys DRAM and NAND Flash products declined 52% and 56%, respectively, for 2009 as compared to 2008 after declining 51% and 67%, respectively, for 2008 as compared to 2007 and declining 23% and 56%, respectively, for 2007 as compared to 2006.  These declines significantly outpaced the long-term historical pricing trend.  As a result of these market conditions, the Company and other semiconductor memory manufacturers reported substantial losses in recent periods. The Company recognized net losses attributable to Micron of $1.9 billion for 2009, $1.7 billion for 2008 and $331 million for 2007.
 
1
 
 
  The Memory segments primary products are DRAM and NAND Flash, which are key memory components used in a broad array of electronic applications, including personal computers, workstations, network servers, mobile phones, Flash memory cards, USB storage devices, MP3/4 players and other consumer electronics products.  The Company sells primarily to original equipment manufacturers, distributors and retailers located around the world.  The Company is focused on improving its Memory segments competitiveness by developing new products, advancing its technology and reducing costs.
Memory:
In response to adverse market conditions, the Company initiated restructure plans in 2009, primarily within the Companys Memory segment.  In the first quarter of 2009, IM Flash, a joint venture between the Company and Intel Corporation (Intel), terminated its agreement with the Company to obtain NAND Flash memory supply from the Companys Boise facility, reducing the Companys NAND Flash production by approximately 35,000 200mm wafers per month.  The Company and Intel also agreed to suspend tooling and the ramp of NAND Flash production at IM Flashs Singapore wafer fabrication facility.  In addition, the Company phased out all remaining 200mm DRAM wafer manufacturing operations in Boise, Idaho in the second half of 2009.
In 2008, the Company established a partnering arrangement with Nanya Technology Corporation (Nanya) pursuant to which the Company and Nanya jointly develop process technology and designs to manufacture stack DRAM products.  Each party generally bears its own development costs.  In addition, the Company has deployed and licensed certain intellectual property related to the manufacture of stack DRAM products to Nanya and licensed certain intellectual property from Nanya.  As a result, the Company is to receive an aggregate of $207 million from Nanya through 2010, of which the Company recognized license revenue of $105 million and $37 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively.  In addition, the Company expects to receive royalties in future periods from Nanya for sales of stack DRAM products manufactured by or for Nanya.
In the first quarter of 2009, the Company acquired a 35.5% ownership interest in Inotera Memories, Inc. (Inotera), a publicly-traded entity in Taiwan, from Qimonda AG (Qimonda) for $398 million.  In August 2009, the Companys ownership interest in Inotera was reduced to 29.8% as a result of Inoteras issuance of common stock in a public offering for approximately $310 million.  In connection with the acquisition of the shares in Inotera, the Company and Nanya also entered into a supply agreement with Inotera (the Inotera Supply Agreement) pursuant to which Inotera will sell trench and stack DRAM products to the Company and Nanya.  The Company has rights and obligations to purchase up to 50% of Inoteras wafer production capacity.  Inoteras actual wafer production will vary from time to time based on market and other conditions.   Inotera charges the Company and Nanya for a portion of the costs associated with its underutilized capacity, if any.  Inoteras trench production is expected to transition to the Companys stack process technology.  The cost to the Company of wafers purchased under the Inotera Supply Agreement is based on a margin sharing formula among the Company, Nanya and Inotera.  Under such formula, all parties manufacturing costs related to wafers supplied by Inotera, as well as the Companys and Nanyas selling prices for the resale of products from wafers supplied by Inotera, are considered in determining costs for wafers from Inotera.   (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Supplemental Balance Sheet Information  Equity Method Investments  DRAM joint ventures with Nanya)
  The primary product of All Other segments was CMOS image sensors.  On July 10, 2009, the Company sold a 65% interest in Aptina Imaging Corporation (Aptina), previously a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and a significant component of the Companys All Other segments, to Riverwood Capital and TPG Capital.  In connection with the transaction, the Company received approximately $35 million in cash and retained a 35% minority interest in Aptina.  The Company also retained all cash held by Aptina and its subsidiaries.  The Company accounts for its remaining interest in Aptina under the equity method.  The Company continues to manufacture products for Aptina under a wafer supply agreement.  The Company anticipates that pricing under the Aptina wafer supply agreement will generally result in lower gross margins than historically realized on sales of CMOS image sensor products to end customers.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Supplemental Balance Sheet Information  Equity Method Investments    Aptina)
All Other:
Products
  Sales of Memory products were 89%, 89% and 88% of the Companys total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Memory:
 
2
 
 
  DRAM products are high-density, low-cost-per-bit, random access memory devices that provide high-speed data storage and retrieval.  DRAM products were 50%, 54% and 65% of the Companys total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The Company offers DRAM products with a variety of performance, pricing and other characteristics including high-volume DDR2 and DDR3 products as well as specialty DRAM memory products including DDR, SDRAM, Mobile DRAM, PSRAM and RLDRAM.
Dynamic Random Access Memory (DRAM)
:
  DDR2 and DDR3 are standardized, high-density, high-volume DRAM products that are sold primarily for use as main system memory in computers and servers.  DDR2 and DDR3 products offer high speed and high bandwidth at a relatively low cost compared to other DRAM products.  DDR2 products were the highest volume parts in the DRAM market in 2009 and were 22%, 28% and 32% of the Companys total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  DDR3 products were 7% of total net sales in 2009 and the Company expects that sales of DDR3 products will increase significantly in 2010.
DDR2 and DDR3:
The Company offers DDR2 products in 256 megabit (Mb), 512 Mb, 1 gigabit (Gb) and 2 Gb densities.  The Company offers DDR3 products in 1 Gb and 2 Gb densities.  The Company expects that these densities will be necessary to meet future customer demands for a broad array of products.  The Company offers its DDR2 and DDR3 products in multiple configurations, speeds and package types.  In connection with the Companys acquisition of Inotera in 2009, the Company currently also offers DDR2 and DDR3 DRAM products manufactured by Inotera using a trench DRAM technology as Inotera transitions to the Companys stack DRAM technology.
  The Company also offers specialty DRAM memory products including DDR, SDRAM, Mobile DRAM, Pseudo-static RAM (PSRAM) and Reduced Latency DRAM (RLDRAM), which are used primarily in networking devices, servers, consumer electronics, communications equipment and computer peripherals as well as memory upgrades to legacy computers.  Aggregate sales of these products were 21%, 25% and 33% of the Companys total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The Company offers these products in densities ranging from 64 Mb to 1Gb.
Other DRAM products:
:  NAND products are electrically re-writeable, non-volatile semiconductor memory devices that retain content when power is turned off.  NAND sales were 39%, 35% and 23% of the Companys total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  NAND is ideal for mass-storage devices due to its fast erase and write times, high density, and low cost per bit relative to other solid-state memory.  The market for NAND products has grown rapidly and the Company expects it to continue to grow due to demand for removable and embedded storage devices.  Removable storage devices such as USB and Flash memory cards are used with applications such as personal computers, digital still cameras, MP3/4 players and mobile phones.  Embedded NAND-based storage devices are utilized in MP3/4 players, mobile phones, computers and other personal and consumer applications.
NAND Flash memory (NAND)
NAND and DRAM share common manufacturing processes, enabling the Company to leverage its product and process technologies and manufacturing infrastructure across these two product lines.  The Companys NAND designs feature a small cell structure that allows for higher densities for demanding applications.  The Company offers Single-Level Cell (SLC) products and Multi-Level Cell (MLC) NAND products, which have two or more times the bit density of SLC products.  In 2009, the Company offered SLC NAND products in 1 Gb, 2 Gb, 4 Gb and 8 Gb densities.  In 2009, the Company offered 8 Gb, 16 Gb and 32 Gb 2-bit-per-cell MLC NAND products and began sampling 3-bit-per-cell 32 Gb MLC NAND products.  In 2009, 32 Gb MLC NAND products manufactured using industry-leading 34 nanometer (nm) process technology were 14% of the Companys total net sales.  The Company offers high-speed NAND products that deliver transfer speeds up to 200 megabytes per second (MB/s) as compared to 40 MB/s for conventional SLC NAND.  These higher speeds are achieved by leveraging an ONFI 2.0 specification and a four-plane architecture with higher clock speeds.
The Company offers next-generation RealSSD solid-state drives for enterprise server and notebook applications which offer higher performance, reduced power consumption and enhanced reliability as compared to typical hard disk drives.  Using Micron's SLC and MLC NAND process technology, the solid-state drives are offered in 2.5-inch and 1.8-inch form factors, with densities up to 256 gigabytes and as embedded USB devices with densities up to 8 gigabytes.  The Company expects that demand for solid-state drives will increase significantly over the next few years.  The Company also offers NAND Flash in multichip packages (MCPs) that incorporate NAND Flash with other memory products manufactured by the Company to create a single package that simplifies design while improving performance and functionality.
 
3
 
 
The Companys Lexar subsidiary sells high-performance digital media products and other flash-based storage products through retail and original equipment manufacturing (OEM) channels.  The Companys digital media products include a variety of Flash memory cards with a range of speeds, capacities and value-added features.  The Companys digital media products also include its JumpDrive products, which are high-speed, portable USB flash drives for consumer applications that serve a variety of uses, including floppy disk replacement and digital media accessories such as card readers and image rescue software.  The Company offers Flash memory cards in all major media formats currently used by digital cameras and other electronic host devices, including:  CompactFlash, Memory Stick and Secure Digital Cards.  Many of CompactFlash, Memory Stick and Memory Stick PRO products sold by the Company incorporate its patented controller technology.  Other products, including Secure Digital Card Flash memory cards and some JumpDrive products, incorporate third party controllers.  The Company also resells Flash memory products that are purchased from suppliers.  The Company offers Flash memory cards in a variety of speeds and capacities.  The Company sells products under its Lexar brand and also manufactures products that are sold under other brand names.  The Company has an agreement with Eastman Kodak to sell digital media products under the Kodak brand name.
The Company manufactures CMOS image sensor products for Aptina under a wafer supply agreement entered into at the time the Company agreed to sell a 65% interest in Aptina on July 10, 2009.  All Other sales are dependent on Aptinas ability to successfully design and market CMOS image sensor products to end customers.
All Other:  
Manufacturing
The Companys manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, China, Italy, Japan, Puerto Rico and Singapore.  The Companys Inotera joint venture also has a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan.  The Companys manufacturing facilities generally operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.  Semiconductor manufacturing is extremely capital intensive, requiring large investments in sophisticated facilities and equipment.  Most semiconductor equipment must be replaced every three to five years with increasingly advanced equipment.
The Companys process for manufacturing semiconductor products is complex, involving a number of precise steps, including wafer fabrication, assembly and test.  Efficient production of semiconductor products requires utilization of advanced semiconductor manufacturing techniques and effective deployment of these techniques across multiple facilities.  The primary determinants of manufacturing cost are die size, number of mask layers, number of fabrication steps and number of good die produced on each wafer.  Other factors that contribute to manufacturing costs are wafer size, cost and sophistication of manufacturing equipment, equipment utilization, process complexity, cost of raw materials, labor productivity, package type and cleanliness of the manufacturing environment.  The Company is continuously enhancing its production processes, reducing die sizes and transitioning to higher density products.  The Company was transitioning its DRAM production to 50nm line-width process technology in 2009 and expects that most of its DRAM products will be manufactured using its 50nm line-width process technology in the second half of 2010.  In 2009, the Company manufactured the majority of its NAND Flash memory products using its 34nm line-width process technology.  In 2010, the Company expects to transition to a lower line-width process technology for its manufacture of NAND Flash memory products.  In 2009, the Company manufactured substantially all of its high-volume Memory products on 300mm wafers.  The Company manufactured some specialty DRAM and CMOS image sensor products using 200mm wafers.
Wafer fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize dust and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants.  Despite stringent manufacturing controls, dust particles, equipment errors, minute impurities in materials, defects in photomasks and circuit design marginalities or defects can lead to wafers being scrapped and individual circuits being nonfunctional.  Success of the Companys manufacturing operations depends largely on minimizing defects to maximize yield of high-quality circuits.  In this regard, the Company employs rigorous quality controls throughout the manufacturing, screening and testing processes.  The Company is able to recover many nonstandard devices by testing and grading them to their highest level of functionality.
After fabrication, silicon wafers are separated into individual die.  The Company sells semiconductor products in both packaged and unpackaged (i.e. bare die) forms.  For packaged products, functional die are sorted, connected to external leads and encapsulated in plastic packages.  The Company assembles products in a variety of packages, including TSOP (thin small outline package), TQFP (thin quad flat package) and FBGA (fine pitch ball grid array).  Bare die products address customer requirements for smaller form factors and higher memory densities and provide superior flexibility.  Bare die products are used in packaging technologies such as systems-in-a-package (SIPs) and multi-chip packages (MCPs), which reduce the board area required.
 
4
 
The Company tests its products at various stages in the manufacturing process, performs high temperature burn-in on finished products and conducts numerous quality control inspections throughout the entire production flow.  In addition, the Company uses its proprietary AMBYX line of intelligent test and burn-in systems to perform simultaneous circuit tests of DRAM die during the burn-in process, capturing quality and reliability data and reducing testing time and cost.
The Company assembles a significant portion of its memory products into memory modules.  Memory modules consist of an array of memory components attached to printed circuit boards (PCBs) that insert directly into computer systems or other electronic devices.  The Companys Lexar subsidiary contracts with independent foundries and assembly and testing organizations to manufacture flash media products such as memory cards and USB devices.
The Company utilizes subcontractors to perform a significant portion of its assembly, test and module assembly services.  Outsourcing these services enables the Company to reduce costs and minimize its capital investment.
In recent years, the Company has produced an increasingly broad portfolio of products, which enhances the Companys ability to allocate resources to its most profitable products but also increases the complexity of its manufacturing process.  Although the Companys product lines generally use similar manufacturing processes, the Companys overall cost efficiency can be affected by frequent conversions to new products; the allocation of manufacturing capacity to more complex, smaller-volume parts; and the reallocation of manufacturing capacity across various product lines.
  The Company has formed two joint ventures with Intel to manufacture NAND Flash memory products for the exclusive benefit of the partners:  IM Flash Technologies, LLC and IM Flash Singapore LLP (collectively, IM Flash).  IM Flash manufactures NAND Flash memory products using NAND Flash designs developed by the Company and Intel.  The parties share the output of IM Flash generally in proportion to their investment in IM Flash.  The Company owned a 51% interest in IM Flash at September 3, 2009.  IM Flashs financial results are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
NAND Flash joint ventures with Intel Corporation:
In the first quarter of 2009, IM Flash substantially completed construction of a new 300mm wafer fabrication facility structure in Singapore.  The Singapore facility has not been equipped and in October 2008 the Company and Intel agreed to suspend tooling and the ramp of NAND Flash production at the facility.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Consolidated Variable Interest Entities  NAND Flash Joint Ventures with Intel.)
  TECH is a DRAM memory manufacturing joint venture in Singapore among Micron Technology, Inc., Canon Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Company.  The Company owned an approximate 85% interest in TECH at September 3, 2009.  TECHs semiconductor manufacturing facilities use the Companys product and process technology.  Subject to specific terms and conditions, the Company has agreed to purchase all of the products manufactured by TECH.  In 2009, TECH accounted for approximately 20% of the Companys total wafer production.  The shareholders agreement for the TECH joint venture expires in April 2011.  In the first quarter of 2010, TECH received a notice from HP that it does not intend to extend the TECH joint venture beyond April 2011.  The Company is working with HP and Canon to reach a resolution of the matter.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd.)
TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. (TECH):
In the first quarter of 2009, the Company acquired a 35.5% ownership interest in Inotera.  In August 2009, the Companys ownership interest in Inotera was reduced to 29.8% as a result of Inoteras issuance of common stock in a public offering for approximately $310 million.   In connection with the acquisition, the Company entered into a supply agreement with Inotera.  Inotera manufactures products using a trench DRAM process technology and is expected to transition to the Companys stack DRAM process technology.  Under the Inotera supply agreement, the Company has the right to obtain 50% of Inoteras output (approximately 50,000 300mm DRAM wafers per month as of September 3, 2009).  The Company began receiving trench DRAM products from Inotera in the fourth quarter of 2009.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Equity Method Investments  DRAM Joint Ventures with Nanya.)
Inotera:
 
 
On July 10, 2009, the Company sold a 65% interest in Aptina, previously a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and a significant component of the Companys All Other segments.  Subsequent to the sale, the Company continues to manufacture CMOS image sensor products for Aptina under a wafer supply agreement.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Equity Method Investments  Aptina.)
Aptina Supply Agreement:
 
 
 
5
 
  The Company produces photomasks for leading-edge and advanced next generation semiconductors through MP Mask, a joint venture with Photronics, Inc. (Photronics).  The Company and Photronics have 50.01% and 49.99% interest, respectively, in MP Mask.  The Company and Photronics also have supply arrangements wherein the Company purchases a substantial majority of the reticles produced by MP Mask.  The financial results of MP Mask are included in the consolidated financial results of the Company.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Consolidated Variable Interest Entities  MP Mask Technology Center, LLC.)
MP Mask Technology Center, LLC (MP Mask):
Availability of Raw Materials
The Companys production processes require raw materials that meet exacting standards, including several that are customized for, or unique to, the Company.  The Company generally has multiple sources and sufficient availability of supply; however, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet the Companys standards.  Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, lead frames, molding compound and other materials.  In addition, any transportation problems could delay the Companys receipt of raw materials.  Although raw materials shortages or transportation problems have not interrupted the Companys operations in the past, shortages may occur from time to time in the future.  Also, lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past.  If the Companys supply of raw materials is interrupted, or lead times are extended, results of operations could be adversely affected.
Marketing and Customers
The Companys products are sold into computing, consumer, networking, telecommunications, and imaging markets.  Approximately 30% of the Companys net sales for 2009 were to the computing market, including desktop PCs, servers, notebooks and workstations.  Sales to Intel, primarily for NAND Flash from the IM Flash joint ventures, were 20% of the Companys net sales in 2009 and 19% of the Companys net sales in 2008.  Sales to Hewlett-Packard Company were 10% of the Companys net sales in 2007.
The Companys Memory products are offered under the Micron, Lexar, Crucial and SpecTek brand names and private labels.  The Company markets its semiconductor products primarily through its own direct sales force and maintains sales offices in its primary markets around the world.  The Company maintains inventory at locations in close proximity to certain key customers to facilitate rapid delivery of products.  The Company sells Lexar-branded NAND Flash memory products primarily through retail channels and its Crucial-branded products primarily through a web-based customer direct sales channel.  The Companys products are also offered through independent sales representatives and distributors.  Independent sales representatives obtain orders subject to final acceptance by the Company and are compensated on a commission basis.  The Company makes shipments against these orders directly to the customer.  Distributors carry the Companys products in inventory and typically sell a variety of other semiconductor products, including competitors products.
The Company offers products designed to meet the diverse needs of computing, server, automotive, networking, security, commercial/industrial, consumer electronics, medical and mobile applications.  Many of the Companys customers require a thorough review or qualification of semiconductor products, which may take several months.  As the Company further diversifies its product lines and reduces the die sizes of existing products, more products become subject to qualification which may delay volume introduction of specific devices by the Company.
Backlog
Because of volatile industry conditions, customers are reluctant to enter into long-term, fixed-price contracts.  Accordingly, new order volumes for the Companys semiconductor products fluctuate significantly.  Orders are typically accepted with acknowledgment that the terms may be adjusted to reflect market conditions at the date of shipment.  Customers can change delivery schedules or cancel orders without significant penalty.  For these reasons, the Company does not believe that its order backlog as of any particular date is a reliable indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period.
 
6
 
 
Product Warranty
Because the design and manufacturing process for semiconductor products is highly complex, it is possible that the Company may produce products that do not comply with customer specifications, contain defects or are otherwise incompatible with end uses.  In accordance with industry practice, the Company generally provides a limited warranty that its products are in compliance with Company specifications existing at the time of delivery.  Under the Companys general terms and conditions of sale, liability for certain failures of product during a stated warranty period is usually limited to repair or replacement of defective items or return of, or a credit with respect to, amounts paid for such items.  Under certain circumstances, the Company provides more extensive limited warranty coverage than that provided under the Companys general terms and conditions.
Competition
The Company faces intense competition in the semiconductor memory markets from a number of companies, including Elpida Memory, Inc.; Hynix Semiconductor Inc.; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd; SanDisk Corporation; and Toshiba Corporation.  Some of the Companys competitors are large corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources to withstand downturns in the semiconductor markets in which the Company competes, invest in technology and capitalize on growth opportunities.  The Companys competitors seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields, reduce die size and minimize mask levels in their product design resulting in significantly increased worldwide supply and downward pressure on prices.
Research and Development
The Companys process technology research and development (R&D) efforts are focused primarily on development of successively smaller line-width process technologies which are designed to facilitate the Companys transition to next generation memory products.  Additional process technology R&D efforts focus on the enablement of advanced computing and mobile memory architectures, the investigation of new opportunities that leverage the companys core semiconductor expertise, and the development of new manufacturing materials.  Product design and development efforts are concentrated on the Companys high density DDR3 and mobile products, as well as high density and mobile NAND Flash memory (including MLC technology), specialty memory products and memory systems.  The Companys R&D expenses were $647 million, $680 million and $805 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
To compete in the semiconductor memory industry, the Company must continue to develop technologically advanced products and processes.  The Company believes that expansion of its semiconductor product offerings is necessary to meet expected market demand for specific memory solutions.  The Companys process development center and largest design center are located at its corporate headquarters in Boise, Idaho.  The Company has several additional product design centers in other strategic locations around the world.  In addition, the Company develops leading edge photolithography mask technology at its MP Mask joint venture facility in Boise.
R&D expenses vary primarily with the number of development wafers processed, the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to new product and process development, and personnel costs.  Because of the lead times necessary to manufacture its products, the Company typically begins to process wafers before completion of performance and reliability testing.  The Company deems development of a product complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability.  R&D expenses can vary significantly depending on the timing of product qualification.  The Company and Intel share R&D process and design costs for NAND Flash equally.  The Company and Nanya also jointly develop process technology and designs to manufacture stack DRAM products with each party bearing its own development costs.
 
7
 
 
Geographic Information
Sales to customers outside the United States totaled $3.9 billion for 2009 and included $1.2 billion in sales to China, $542 million in sales to Malaysia, $470 million in sales to Europe, $447 million in sales to Taiwan, and $990 million in sales to the Asia Pacific region (excluding China, Malaysia and Taiwan).  Sales to customers outside the United States totaled $4.4 billion for 2008 and $4.0 billion for 2007.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company had net property, plant and equipment of $4.7 billion in the United States, $2.1 billion in Singapore, $180 million in Italy, $112 million in Japan and $52 million in other countries.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Geographic Information and Item 1A. Risk Factors.)
Patents and Licenses
In recent years, the Company has been recognized as a leader in volume and quality of patents issued.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company owned approximately 17,300 U.S. patents and 2,900 foreign patents.  In addition, the Company has numerous U.S. and foreign patent applications pending.  The Companys patents have terms expiring through 2028.
The Company has a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements.  Some of these license agreements require the Company to make one time or periodic payments.  The Company may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future.  The Company is unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms.
In recent years, the Company has recovered some of its investment in technology through sales of intellectual property rights to joint venture partners and other third parties.  The Company is pursuing additional opportunities to recover its investment in intellectual property through additional sales of intellectual property and potential partnering arrangements.
Employees
As of September 3, 2009, the Company had approximately 18,200 employees, including approximately 9,300 in the United States, 4,500 in Singapore, 1,900 in Italy, 1,500 in Japan, 800 in China and 200 in the United Kingdom.  The Companys employees include approximately 1,500 employees in its IM Flash joint ventures that are located in the United States and 2,000 employees in its TECH joint venture that are located in Singapore.  Approximately 500 of the Companys employees in Italy are represented by labor organizations that have entered into national and local labor contracts with the Company.  The Companys employment levels can vary depending on market conditions and the level of the Companys production, research and product and process development.  Many of the Companys employees are highly skilled, and the Companys continued success depends in part upon its ability to attract and retain such employees.  The loss of key Company personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations or financial condition.
Environmental Compliance
Government regulations impose various environmental controls on raw materials and discharges, emissions and solid wastes from the Companys manufacturing processes.  In 2009, the Companys wholly-owned wafer fabrication facilities continued to conform to the requirements of ISO 14001 certification.  To continue certification, the Company met annual requirements in environmental policy, compliance, planning, management, structure and responsibility, training, communication, document control, operational control, emergency preparedness and response, record keeping and management review.  While the Company has not experienced any materially adverse effects on its operations from environmental regulations, changes in the regulations could necessitate additional capital expenditures, modification of operations or other compliance actions.
 
8
 
 
Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
Officers of the Company are appointed annually by the Board of Directors.  Directors of the Company are elected annually by the shareholders of the Company.  Any directors appointed by the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the Board serve until the next election by the shareholders.  All officers and directors serve until their successors are duly chosen or elected and qualified, except in the case of earlier death, resignation or removal.
As of September 3, 2009, the following executive officers and directors of the Company were subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
joined the Company in June 2006.  From January 2006 until he joined the Company, Mr. Adams was the Chief Operating Officer of Lexar Media, Inc.  Mr. Adams served as the Vice President of Sales and Marketing for Creative Labs, Inc. from December 2002 to January 2006.  From March 2000 to September 2002, Mr. Adams was the Chief Executive Officer of Coresma, Inc.  Mr. Adams holds a BA in Economics from Boston College and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
Mark W. Adams
joined the Company in February 1983 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Appleton first became an officer of the Company in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions with the Company since that time.  From April 1991 until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Appleton has served on the Companys Board of Directors.  From September 1994 to June 2007, Mr. Appleton served as the Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company.  In June 2007, Mr. Appleton relinquished his position as President of the Company but retained his positions of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board.  Mr. Appleton is a member of the Board of Directors of National Semiconductor Corporation.  Mr. Appleton holds a BA in Business Management from Boise State University.
Steven R. Appleton
joined the Company in November 1983 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Bedard first became an officer of the Company in April 1990 and has served in various officer positions since that time.  Since January 1994, Mr. Bedard has served as Vice President of Investor Relations for the Company.  Mr. Bedard holds a BBA in Accounting from Boise State University.
Kipp A. Bedard
joined the Company in June 1984 and has served in various technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries since that time.  Mr. Durcan was appointed Chief Operating Officer in February 2006 and President in June 2007.  Mr. Durcan has been an officer of the Company since 1996.  Mr. Durcan holds a BS and MChE in Chemical Engineering from Rice University.
D. Mark Durcan
joined the Company in April 2008 after serving as a member of the Board of Directors from June 2004 to April 2005.  From March 2005 to March 2008, he was the Chief Financial Officer for FormFactor, Inc.  Mr. Foster previously served in senior financial management positions for Hewlett-Packard, Applied Materials, Novell and JDS Uniphase.  Mr. Foster holds a BA in Economics from Whitman College and an MBA from the University of Chicago.
Ronald C. Foster
 
9
 
joined the Company in August 1991 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Lewis has served as Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 1996.  Mr. Lewis holds a BA in Economics and Asian Studies from Brigham Young University and a JD from Columbia University School of Law.
Roderic W. Lewis
has served as the Company's Vice President of Human Resources since March 2007.  Mr. Otte joined Micron in 1987 and has served in various positions of increasing responsibility, including Production Manager in several of Microns fabrication facilities, Operations Manager for Micron Technology Italia S.r.l. and, Site Director for the Company's facility in Manassas, Virginia. Mr. Otte holds a Bachelor of Science degree from St. Paul Bible College in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Patrick T. Otte
joined the Company in November 1986 and has served in various operational positions with the Company.  Mr. Shields first became an officer of the Company in March 2003 and has been Vice President of Wafer Fabrication since December 2005.
Brian J. Shields
joined the Company in August 1992 and has served in various technical positions with the Company.  Mr. Shirley became Vice President of Memory in February 2006.  Mr. Shirley holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.
Brian M. Shirley
has served as President of Sony University since April 2005.  Dr. Aoki has been associated with Sony since 1970 and has held various executive positions, including Senior Executive Vice President and Executive Officer of Sony Corporation as well as President and Chief Operating Officer of Sony Electronics, a U.S. subsidiary.  Dr. Aoki holds a Ph.D. in Material Sciences from Northwestern University as well as a BS in Applied Physics from the University of Tokyo.  He was elected as an IEEE Fellow in 2003 and serves as Advisory Board Member of Kellogg School of Management of Northwestern University.  Dr. Aoki also serves on the board of Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. Dr. Aoki is the Chairman of the Boards Compensation Committee.
Teruaki Aoki
became the Executive Chairman of Lam Research Corporation (Lam), a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, in June 2005.  From August 1997 through June 2005, Mr. Bagley served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lam. Mr. Bagley is a member of the Board of Directors of Teradyne, Inc.  He has served on the Companys Board of Directors since June 1997.  Mr. Bagley holds a MS and BS in Electrical Engineering from Mississippi State University.
James W. Bagley
has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of PMC-Sierra (PMC) since 2005 and also served as PMCs Chairman from February 2000 until February 2003.  Mr. Bailey has been a director of PMC since October 1996.  He also served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of PMC from July 1997 until May 2008.  PMC is a leading provider of broadband communication and semiconductor storage solutions for the next-generation Internet.  Mr. Bailey holds a BS degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Bridgeport and an MBA from the University of Dallas.
Robert L. Bailey
was the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Avago Technologies Limited, a supplier of analog interface components for communications, industrial and consumer applications, from December 2005 to August 2008.  Prior to that, she served as the Senior Vice President, Finance, of Lam from June 2004 to January 2005 and as Lams Chief Financial Officer from May 1997 to May 2004.  Before joining Lam, Ms. Johnson spent 10 years with Applied Materials, Inc., where she served in various senior financial management positions, including Vice President and Worldwide Operations Controller.  Ms. Johnson holds a degree in Accounting from the University of Buenos Aires and currently serves on the Board of Directors for Intersil Corporation.
Mercedes Johnson
was the President and Chief Executive Officer of CSK Auto Corporation (CSK), a specialty retailer of automotive aftermarket parts, from August 2007 to July 2008.  Prior to his appointment at CSK, Mr. Mondry served as the Chief Executive Officer of CompUSA Inc. from November 2003 to May 2006.  Mr. Mondry joined CompUSA in 1990.  Mr. Mondry currently serves on the Board of Directors of CSK. Mr. Mondry is the Chairman of the Boards Governance Committee and Lead Director.
Lawrence N. Mondry
 
10
 
 
is currently Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ADC Telecommunications, Inc., (ADC), a supplier of network infrastructure products and services.  Mr. Switz has been President and Chief Executive officer of ADC since August 2003 and Chairman since August 2008.  He has been with ADC since 1994 and prior to his current position, served ADC as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Switz holds an MBA from the University of Bridgeport as well as a degree in Marketing/Economics from Quinnipiac University.  Mr. Switz also serves on the Board of Directors for ADC and Broadcom Corporation.  Mr. Switz is the Chairman of the Boards Audit Committee.
Robert E. Switz
There is no family relationship between any director or executive officer of the Company.
11

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
Item 6.  
Selected Financial Data
Amounts and balances in the table below have been adjusted to reflect the retrospective application of new accounting standards for noncontrolling interests and certain convertible debt instruments.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards.)
In the first quarter of 2009, the Company acquired a 35.5% ownership interest in Inotera Memories, Inc. (Inotera), a publicly-traded DRAM manufacturer in Taiwan.  In connection with the acquisition of the shares in Inotera, the Company and Nanya entered into a supply agreement with Inotera pursuant to which Inotera sells trench and stack DRAM products to the Company and the Companys DRAM joint venture partner, Nanya Technology Corporation.  On August 3, 2009, Inotera issued shares in a public offering, decreasing the Companys interest in Inotera to 29.8%.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Equity Method Investments  DRAM joint ventures with Nanya.)
On July 10, 2009, the Company sold a 65% interest in Aptina Imaging Corporation (Aptina), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.  The Company continues to manufacture products for Aptina under a wafer supply agreement.  The Company accounts for its remaining interest in Aptina under the equity method.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Equity Method Investments  Aptina.)
The Company formed two joint ventures (collectively IM Flash) with Intel Corporation to manufacture NAND Flash memory products for the exclusive benefit of the partners:  IM Flash Technologies, LLC, which began operations in the second quarter of 2006, and IM Flash Singapore LLP, which began operations in the third quarter of 2007.  The Company owns 51% and Intel owns 49% of IM Flash.  The financial results of IM Flash are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Consolidated Variable Interest Entities  NAND Flash joint venture with Intel.)
The Company began consolidating the financial results of its TECH Semiconductor joint venture (TECH) as of the beginning of the third quarter of 2006.  In the third quarter of 2007, the Company acquired all of the shares of TECH common stock held by Singapore Economic Development Board, which increased the Companys ownership interest in TECH from approximately 43% to approximately 73%.  As a result of the purchases of TECH shares in 2009, the Companys ownership interest in TECH was increased from to approximately 73% as of August 28, 2008 to approximately 85% in August 2009.   (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd.)
 
1
 
In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company acquired Lexar Media, Inc., a designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of Flash memory products, in a stock-for-stock merger.
(See Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
2
 

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.3
 
Item 7.  
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion contains trend information and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in Overview regarding Inotera's transition to the Company's stack process technology and anticipated margins and operating expenses for All Other segments in future periods; in Net Sales regarding DRAM production received from Inotera in 2010, future increases in NAND Flash production, and future All Other revenue under an imaging wafer supply agreement with Aptina; in Gross Margin regarding future charges from Inotera for underutilized capacity, future charges for inventory write-downs, gross margins from the Companys imaging wafer supply agreement with Aptina; in Selling, General and Administrative regarding future legal expenses;
 
in Research and Development regarding reductions of future research and development expenses in connection with the sale of a majority interest in Aptina; in Restructure regarding future levels of employees; in Stock-based Compensation regarding future costs to be recognized; in Liquidity and Capital Resources regarding capital spending in 2010, future distributions from IM Flash to Intel and capital contributions to TECH; and in Recently Issued Accounting Standards regarding the impact from the adoption of new accounting standards. The Companys actual results could differ materially from the Companys historical results and those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in Item 1A.  Risk Factors. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes for the year ended September 3, 2009.  All period references are to the Companys fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. The Companys fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31.  All tabular dollar amounts are in millions.  The Companys fiscal 2009, which ended on September 3, 2009, contained 53 weeks and its fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 both contained 52 weeks.  All production data includes production of the Company and its consolidated joint ventures and the Companys supply from Inotera.
Overview
The Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of semiconductor devices, principally DRAM and NAND Flash memory.  In addition, the Company manufactures semiconductor components for CMOS image sensors and other semiconductor products.  Its products are used in a broad range of electronic applications including personal computers, workstations, network servers, mobile phones and other consumer applications including Flash memory cards, USB storage devices, digital still cameras, MP3/4 players and in automotive applications.  The Company markets its products through its internal sales force, independent sales representatives and distributors primarily to original equipment manufacturers and retailers located around the world.  The Companys success is largely dependent on the market acceptance of a diversified portfolio of semiconductor products, efficient utilization of the Companys manufacturing infrastructure, successful ongoing development of advanced process technologies and generation of sufficient return on research and development investments.
The Company has made significant investments to develop proprietary product and process technology that is implemented in its worldwide manufacturing facilities and through its joint ventures to enable the production of semiconductor products with increasing functionality and performance at lower costs.  The Company generally reduces the manufacturing cost of each generation of product through advancements in product and process technology such as its leading-edge line-width process technology and innovative array architecture.  The Company continues to introduce new generations of products that offer improved performance characteristics, such as higher data transfer rates, reduced package size, lower power consumption and increased memory density.  To leverage its significant investments in research and development, the Company has formed various strategic joint ventures under which the costs of developing memory product and process technologies are shared with its joint venture partners.  In addition, from time to time, the Company has also sold and/or licensed technology to other parties.  The Company is pursuing additional opportunities to recover its investment in intellectual property through partnering and other arrangements.
The semiconductor memory industry is experiencing a severe downturn due to a significant oversupply of products.  The downturn has been exacerbated by global economic conditions which have adversely affected demand for semiconductor memory products.  Average selling prices per gigabit for the Companys DRAM and NAND Flash products declined 52% and 56%, respectively, for 2009 as compared to 2008, after declining 51% and 67%, respectively, for 2008 as compared to 2007, and declining 23% and 56%, respectively, for 2007 as compared to 2006.  These declines significantly outpaced the long-term historical pricing trend.  As a result of these market conditions, the Company and other semiconductor memory manufacturers reported substantial losses in recent periods.  The Company recognized net losses attributable to Micron of $1.9 billion for 2009, $1.7 billion for 2008 and $331 million for 2007.
1
In response to adverse market conditions, the Company initiated restructure plans in 2009, primarily within the Companys Memory segment.  In the first quarter of 2009, IM Flash, a joint venture between the Company and Intel Corporation, terminated its agreement with the Company to obtain NAND Flash memory supply from the Companys Boise facility, reducing the Companys NAND Flash production by approximately 35,000 200mm wafers per month.  The Company and Intel also agreed to suspend tooling and the ramp of NAND Flash production at IM Flashs Singapore wafer fabrication facility.  In addition, the Company phased out all remaining 200mm DRAM wafer manufacturing operations at its Boise, Idaho, facility in the second half of 2009.
Effective at the beginning of 2010, the Company adopted new accounting standards for noncontrolling interests and certain convertible debt instruments.  The impact of the retrospective adoption of the new accounting standards is summarized below.
Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards:
:  Under the new standard, noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries is (1) reported as a separate component of equity in the consolidated balance sheets and (2) included in net income in the statement of operations.
Noncontrolling interests
:  The new standard applies to convertible debt instruments that may be fully or partially settled in cash upon conversion and is applicable to the Companys 1.875% convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.3 billion issued in May 2007 (the Convertible Notes).  The standard requires the liability and equity components of the Convertible Notes to be stated separately.  The liability component recognized at the issuance of the Convertible Notes equals the estimated fair value of a similar liability without a conversion option and the remainder of the proceeds received at issuance was allocated to equity.  In connection therewith, at the May 2007 issuance of the Convertible Notes there was a $402 million decrease in debt, a $394 million increase in additional capital, and an $8 million decrease in deferred debt issuance costs (included in other noncurrent assets).  In subsequent periods, the liability component recognized at issuance is increased to the principal amount of the Convertible Notes through the amortization of interest costs. Through 2009, $107 million of interest was amortized.
Convertible debt instruments
(See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards.)
  In the first quarter of 2009, the Company acquired a 35.5% ownership interest in Inotera, a publicly-traded entity in Taiwan, from Qimonda AG (Qimonda) for $398 million.  The interest in Inotera was acquired for cash, a portion of which was funded from loan proceeds of $200 million received from Nan Ya Plastics Corporation and $85 million received from Inotera.  Nan Ya Plastics is an affiliate of Nanya Technology Corporation (Nanya), a then 35.6% shareholder in Inotera. The loans were recorded at their fair values which reflect an aggregate discount of $31 million from their face amounts.  This aggregate discount was recorded as a reduction of the Companys basis in its investment in Inotera.  The Company also capitalized $10 million of costs and other fees incurred in connection with the acquisition.  As a result of the above transactions, the initial carrying value of the Companys investment in Inotera was $377 million.  On August 3, 2009, Inotera issued shares in a public offering for approximately $310 million that reduced the Company and Nanyas ownership in Inotera to 29.8% and 29.9%, respectively.  As a result of Inoteras public offering, the Company will recognize a gain of $59 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Inotera Memories, Inc. (Inotera):
In connection with the acquisition of the shares in Inotera, the Company and Nanya entered into a supply agreement with Inotera (the Inotera Supply Agreement) pursuant to which Inotera will sell trench and stack DRAM products to the Company and Nanya.  The Company has rights and obligations to purchase up to 50% of Inoteras wafer production capacity.  Inoteras actual wafer production will vary from time to time based on market and other conditions.  Inoteras trench production is expected to transition to the Companys stack process technology.  Inotera charges the Company and Nanya for a portion of the costs associated with its underutilized capacity, if any.  The cost to the Company of wafers purchased under the Inotera Supply Agreement is based on a margin sharing formula among the Company, Nanya and Inotera.  Under such formula, all parties manufacturing costs related to wafers supplied by Inotera, as well as the Companys and Nanyas selling prices for the resale of products from wafers supplied by Inotera, are considered in determining costs for wafers from Inotera.  The Companys purchase obligation includes purchasing Inoteras trench DRAM capacity (less any trench DRAM products sold to Qimonda pursuant to a separate supply agreement between Inotera and Qimonda (the Qimonda Supply Agreement)).  Under the Qimonda Supply Agreement, Qimonda was obligated to purchase trench DRAM products resulting from wafers started for it by Inotera through July 2009 in accordance with a ramp down schedule specified in the Qimonda Supply Agreement.  In the second quarter of 2009, Qimonda filed for bankruptcy protection and defaulted on its obligations to purchase products from Inotera.  Pursuant to the Companys obligations under the Inotera Supply Agreement, the Company recorded $95 million of charges to cost of goods sold in 2009 for underutilized capacity.
2
The Companys results of operations for 2009 also include losses of $130 million for the Companys share of Inoteras losses from the acquisition date through the second calendar quarter of 2009.  The Company accounts for its interest in Inotera under the equity method and does not consolidate Inotera.  The Company recognizes its share of earnings or losses from Inotera for a period that lags the Companys fiscal periods by two months.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company had recorded $3 million to accumulated other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet for cumulative translation adjustments for its investment in Inotera.  During the third quarter of 2009, the Company received $50 million from Inotera pursuant to the terms of a technology transfer agreement.  As of September 3, 2009, the carrying value of the Companys equity investment in Inotera was $229 million.
(See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Supplemental Balance Sheet Information  Equity Method Investments  DRAM joint ventures with Nanya)
  On July 10, 2009, the Company sold a 65% interest in Aptina, previously a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and a significant component of the Companys All Other segments, to Riverwood Capital (Riverwood) and TPG Capital (TPG).  In connection with the transaction, the Company received approximately $35 million in cash and retained a 35% interest in Aptina.  A portion of the 65% interest held by Riverwood and TPG are convertible preferred shares and have a liquidation preference over the common shares.  As a result, the Companys interest represents 64% of Aptinas common stock.  The Company also retained all cash held by Aptina and its subsidiaries.  The Company recorded a loss of $41 million in connection with the sale. Under the equity method, the Company will recognize its share of Aptinas results of operations based on its 64% share of Aptinas common stock on a two-month lag beginning in 2010.  As of September 3, 2009, the Companys investment in Aptina was $44 million.  The Company continues to manufacture products for Aptina under a wafer supply agreement.  The Company anticipates that pricing under the Aptina wafer supply agreement will generally result in lower gross margins than historically realized on sales of CMOS image products to end customers.  The Company also anticipates that the sale of the majority interest in Aptina will significantly reduce research and development costs and other operating expenses.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Supplemental Balance Sheet Information  Equity Method Investments   Aptina)
Aptina Imaging Corporation (Aptina):
The Companys results of operations for the second and first quarters of 2009 included charges of $234 million and $369 million, respectively, to write down the carrying value of work in process and finished goods inventories of memory products (both DRAM and NAND Flash) to their estimated market values.  For the fourth, second and first quarters of 2008, the Company recorded inventory charges of $205 million, $15 million and $62 million, respectively.
Inventory write-downs:
 
Results of Operations
The Companys fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31.
3
Amounts in the table above have been adjusted to reflect the retrospective application of new accounting standards for noncontrolling interests and certain convertible debt instruments.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards.)
In 2009, the Company had two reportable segments, Memory and Imaging.  In the first quarter of 2010, Imaging no longer met the quantitative thresholds of a reportable segment and management does not expect that Imaging will meet the quantitative thresholds in future years.  As a result, Imaging was no longer considered a reportable segment and was included in the Companys All Other nonreportable segments.  All amounts herein have been recast to reflect Imaging in All Other.  The Memory segments primary products are DRAM and NAND Flash memory.  Operating results of All Other primarily reflect activity of Imaging.
Net Sales
Total net sales for 2009 decreased 18% as compared to 2008 primarily due to a 17% decrease in Memory sales and a 21% decrease in All Other sales.  Memory sales for 2009 reflect significant declines in per gigabit average selling prices partially offset by significant increases in gigabits sold as compared to 2008.  Memory sales were 89% of total net sales for 2009 and 2008 and 88% for 2007.  The 21% decrease in All Other sales for 2009 was primarily due to lower sales volume and average sales prices for CMOS image sensor products.  Total net sales for 2008 increased 3% as compared to 2007 primarily due to a 4% increase in Memory sales partially offset by a 5% decrease in All Other sales.
In response to adverse market conditions, the Company shut down production of NAND for IM Flash at the Companys Boise fabrication facility beginning in the second quarter of 2009 and phased out the remainder of its 200mm DRAM production at the Boise fabrication facility in the second half of 2009.  In addition, the Company implemented production slowdowns at some of its manufacturing facilities during 2009.  Production of Memory and All Other products in 2009 was affected by the shutdown of the Boise fabrication facility and slowdowns at other facilities.  The Company will adjust utilization of 200mm wafer processing capacity as product demand varies.
The Company has formed partnering arrangements under which it has sold and/or licensed technology to other parties.  The Companys Memory segment recognized royalty and license revenue of $135 million in 2009 and $58 million in 2008.
  Memory sales for 2009 decreased 17% from 2008 primarily due to a 23% decrease in sales of DRAM products and a 10% decrease in sales of NAND Flash products.
Memory:
Sales of DRAM products for 2009 decreased from 2008 primarily due to a 52% decline in average selling prices mitigated by a 56% increase in gigabits sold.  Gigabit production of DRAM products increased 52% for 2009 despite the shutdown of the Boise fabrication facility and production slowdowns at other 200mm wafer fabrication facilities.  The DRAM production increase was primarily due to production efficiencies achieved primarily through transitions to higher density, advanced geometry devices.  In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company began receiving trench DRAM products from Inotera.  The Company expects that in 2010 its DRAM production will increase as a result of increases in stack and trench DRAM production purchased from Inotera. Sales of DDR2 and DDR3 DRAM, the Companys highest volume products, were 29% of the Companys total net sales for 2009 and 2008 and were 32% for 2007.
The Company sells NAND Flash products in three principal channels: 1) to Intel Corporation (Intel) through its IM Flash consolidated joint venture at long-term negotiated prices approximating cost, 2) to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and other resellers and 3) to retail customers.  Aggregate sales of NAND Flash products for 2009 decreased 10% from 2008 and represented 39% of the Companys total net sales for 2009 as compared to 35% for 2008 and 23% for 2007
Sales through IM Flash to Intel were $886 million for 2009, $1,037 million for 2008 and $497 million for 2007.  For 2009, average selling prices for IM Flash sales to Intel decreased significantly due to a 61% reduction in costs per gigabit.  However, gigabit sales to Intel were 110% higher in 2009 as compared to 2008 primarily due to an 85% increase in gigabit production of NAND Flash products over the same period as a result of the Companys continued transition to higher density 34 nanometer (nm) NAND Flash products and other improvements in product and process technologies.  The increase in NAND Flash production was achieved despite the shutdown of 200mm NAND Flash production which began in the second quarter of 2009.  The Company expects that its gigabit production of NAND Flash products will continue to increase in 2010 but at a slower rate than in 2009.
4
Aggregate sales of NAND Flash products to the Companys OEM, resellers and retail customers were 4% lower for 2009 as compared to 2008 primarily due a 52% decline in average selling prices, partially offset by a 100% increase in gigabit sales.  Average selling prices to the Companys OEM and reseller customers for 2009 decreased approximately 41% compared to 2008, while average selling prices of the Companys Lexar brand, directed primarily at the retail market, decreased approximately 62% for 2009 compared to 2008.
Memory sales for 2008 increased 4% from 2007 primarily due to a 55% increase in sales of NAND Flash products offset by a 15% decrease in sales of DRAM products.  Sales of NAND Flash products for 2008 increased from 2007 primarily due to an increase of approximately 370% in gigabits sold as a result of production increases partially offset by a decline of 67% in average selling prices per gigabit.  Gigabit production of NAND Flash products increased approximately 350% for 2008 as compared to 2007, primarily due to the continued ramp of NAND Flash products at the Companys 300mm fabrication facilities and transitions to higher density, advanced geometry devices.  Sales of DRAM products for 2008 decreased from 2007 primarily due to a decline of 51% in average selling prices (which included the effects of a $50 million charge to revenue in the first quarter of 2007 as a result of a settlement agreement with a class of direct purchasers of certain DRAM products), mitigated by an increase in gigabits sold of approximately 70%.  Gigabit production of DRAM products increased approximately 70% for 2008, primarily due to production efficiencies from improvements in product and process technologies, including TECHs conversion to 300mm wafer fabrication.
  All Other sales for 2009 decreased by 21% from 2008 primarily due to decreased unit sales and declines in average selling prices for CMOS image sensor products.  Demand for All Other products in 2009 was adversely impacted by weakness in the mobile phone markets.   All Other sales for 2009 were also negatively impacted by the Companys sale of a 65% interest in Aptina on July 10, 2009.  After the sale of the Companys 65% interest in Aptina, revenue from the sales of CMOS image sensors is derived entirely from sales of wafers to Aptina under a wafer supply agreement.  The Company anticipates that pricing under the wafer supply agreement will generally result in lower revenue than historically realized on sales by the Company of CMOS image sensor products to end customers.  All Other sales for 2008 decreased 5% from 2007 primarily due to significant declines in average selling prices by product type for CMOS image sensor products partially offset by a shift in product mix from products with 1-megapixel or lower resolution to products with 3-megapixel or higher resolution, which had higher average selling prices per unit.  All Other sales were 11% of the Companys total net sales for 2009 and 2008 and 12% for 2007.
All Other:
Gross Margin
The Companys overall gross margin percentage declined from negative 1% for 2008 to negative 9% for 2009 due to declines in the gross margins for both Memory and All Other primarily as a result of severe pricing pressure mitigated by cost reductions.  The Companys overall gross margin percentage declined from 19% for 2007 to negative 1% for 2008 primarily due to a decrease in the gross margin percentage for Memory as a result of significant declines in average selling prices.  Production slowdowns implemented at some of the Companys 200mm manufacturing facilities during 2009 adversely affected per gigabit costs of Memory products and per unit costs of All Other products.
  The Companys gross margin percentage for Memory products declined from negative 5% for 2008 to negative 12% for 2009 primarily due to declines in the gross margin for DRAM products partially offset by improvements in the gross margin for NAND Flash products.  Gross margins for 2009 were positively affected by significant cost reductions for DRAM and NAND Flash products and the effects of selling memory products that were subject to inventory write-downs in 2008, as discussed in more detail below.  Gross margins for Memory products in 2009 were adversely affected by $187 million of costs associated with underutilized capacity, primarily from Inotera and IM Flashs Singapore facility.  The Company expects that underutilized capacity costs from Inotera will decrease substantially in 2010 as Inotera increases its utilization of production capacity.
Memory:
 
5
 
The Companys gross margins for Memory in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were impacted by charges to write down inventories to their estimated market values as a result of the significant decreases in average selling prices for both DRAM and NAND Flash products.  As charges to write down inventories are recorded in advance of when inventories are sold, gross margins in subsequent reporting periods are higher than they otherwise would be.  The impact of inventory write-downs on gross margins for all periods reflects inventory write-downs less the estimated net effect of prior period write-downs.  The effects of inventory write-downs on gross margin by period were as follows:
In future periods, the Company will be required to record additional inventory write-downs if estimated average selling prices of products held in finished goods and work in process inventories at a quarter-end date are below the manufacturing cost of those products.
Declines in gross margins on sales of DRAM products for 2009 as compared to 2008 were primarily due to the 52% decline in average selling prices mitigated by 40% reduction in costs per gigabit.  The reduction in DRAM costs per gigabit was primarily due to production efficiencies achieved through transitions to higher-density, advanced-geometry devices.  DRAM production costs for 2009 were adversely impacted by $95 million of underutilized capacity costs from Inotera.
The Companys gross margin on sales of NAND Flash products for 2009 improved from 2008, despite a 56% decrease in overall average selling prices per gigabit, primarily due to a 61% reduction in costs per gigabit.  The reduction in NAND Flash costs per gigabit was primarily due to lower manufacturing costs as a result of increased production of higher-density, advanced-geometry devices, in particular from the Companys transition to 34nm process technology.  Gross margins on sales of NAND Flash products reflect sales of approximately half of IM Flashs output to Intel at long-term negotiated prices approximating cost.
The Companys gross margin percentage for Memory products declined from 17% for 2007 to negative 5% for 2008 primarily due to the significant decreases in average selling prices, write-downs of inventories to their estimated market values and the shift in product mix to NAND Flash products (which had a significantly lower gross margin than DRAM products in 2008), mitigated by cost reductions.  The Companys gross margin for DRAM products for 2008 declined from 2007, primarily due to the 51% decline in average selling prices per gigabit mitigated by a 38% reduction in costs per gigabit.  Cost reductions in 2008 for DRAM products were partially offset by inventory write-downs.  The Companys gross margin for NAND Flash products for 2008 declined from 2007 primarily due to the 67% decline in average selling prices per gigabit mitigated by a 64% reduction in costs per gigabit.  Cost reductions in 2008 primarily reflect lower manufacturing costs and lower costs of NAND Flash products purchased for sale under the Companys Lexar brand.   NAND Flash costs for 2008 were also reduced by a recovery of $70 million for price adjustments for NAND Flash products purchased from other suppliers in prior periods.  Cost reductions in 2008 for NAND Flash Products were partially offset by inventory write-downs.
  The Companys gross margin percentage for All Other declined from 28% for 2008 to 16% for 2009 primarily due to declines in average selling prices for CMOS image sensor products and costs associated with underutilized production capacity.  The decrease in the gross margin percentage for 2009 was mitigated by a shift in product mix to products with 3-megapixels or more, which realized higher margins.  All Other gross margins subsequent to the Companys sale of a 65% interest in Aptina on July 10, 2009, are affected by the transition to a wafer foundry manufacturing model wherein the Company sells all of its output CMOS image sensor products to Aptina under a wafer supply agreement.  The Company anticipates that pricing under the wafer supply agreement will generally result in lower gross margins than historically realized by the Company on sales of CMOS image sensor products to end customers.  The Companys gross margin for All Other declined to 28% for 2008 from 34% for 2007 primarily due to declines in average selling prices mitigated by cost reductions and a shift to higher resolution products that realized better gross margins.
All Other:
 
6
 
Selling, General and Administrative
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for 2009 decreased 22% from 2008, primarily due to lower payroll expenses and other costs related to the Companys restructure initiatives and lower legal expenses.  Lower payroll expenses reflect reductions in headcount, variable pay, salary levels and employee benefits.  SG&A expenses for 2008 decreased 25% from 2007 primarily due to lower legal costs as well as lower payroll costs and other expenses driven by the Companys restructure initiatives.  The reduction of payroll costs in 2008 was primarily the result of a decrease in employee headcount.  In 2007, the Company recorded a $31 million charge to SG&A as a result of the settlement of certain antitrust class action (direct purchaser) lawsuits.  Future SG&A expense is expected to vary, potentially significantly, depending on, among other things, the number of legal matters that are resolved relatively early in their life-cycle and the number of matters that progress to trial.  SG&A expenses by segment were as follows:
Research and Development
Research and development (R&D) expenses vary primarily with the number of development wafers processed, the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to new product and process development, and personnel costs.  Because of the lead times necessary to manufacture its products, the Company typically begins to process wafers before completion of performance and reliability testing.  The Company deems development of a product complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability.  R&D expenses can vary significantly depending on the timing of product qualification as costs incurred in production prior to qualification are charged to R&D.
R&D expenses for 2009 decreased 5% from 2008 primarily due to lower payroll costs and decreases in costs of development wafers processed.  Lower payroll expenses reflect reductions in variable pay, salary levels and employee benefits.  R&D expenses were reduced by $107 million in 2009, $148 million in 2008 and $240 million in 2007 for amounts reimbursable from Intel under a NAND Flash R&D cost-sharing arrangement.  R&D expenses for 2008 decreased 16% from 2007 primarily due to decreases in development wafers processed and lower payroll costs driven by the Companys restructure initiatives.  The Company expects that the sale of a majority interest in Aptina in the fourth quarter of 2009 will reduce R&D expenses in future periods.  R&D expenses by segment were as follows:
The Companys process technology research and development (R&D) efforts are focused primarily on development of successively smaller line-width process technologies which are designed to facilitate the Companys transition to next generation memory products.  Additional process technology R&D efforts focus on the enablement of advanced computing and mobile memory architectures, the investigation of new opportunities that leverage the Companys core semiconductor expertise, and the development of new manufacturing materials.  Product design and development efforts are concentrated on the Companys high density DDR3 and mobile products, as well as high density and mobile NAND Flash memory (including MLC technology), specialty memory products and memory systems.
 
7
 
Restructure
In response to a severe downturn in the semiconductor memory industry and global economic conditions, the Company initiated restructure plans in 2009 primarily within the Companys Memory segment.  In the first quarter of 2009, IM Flash, a joint venture between the Company and Intel, terminated its agreement with the Company to obtain NAND Flash memory supply from the Companys Boise facility, reducing the Companys NAND Flash production by approximately 35,000 200mm wafers per month.  In connection with the termination of the NAND Flash memory supply agreement, Intel paid the Company $208 million in 2009.  The Company and Intel also agreed to suspend tooling and the ramp of NAND Flash production at IM Flashs Singapore wafer fabrication facility.  In addition, the Company phased out all remaining 200mm DRAM wafer manufacturing operations in Boise, Idaho in the second half of 2009.  As a result of these restructure plans, the Company reduced employment in 2009 by approximately 4,600 employees, or approximately 20%.  Due to improvements in market conditions and the pursuit of new business opportunities, future reduction in employees may not occur.  In 2008 and 2007, to reduce costs, the Company implemented restructure initiatives including workforce reductions and relocating and outsourcing certain of its operations.  The following table summarizes restructure charges (credits) resulting from the Companys restructure activities:
Goodwill Impairment
In the second quarter of 2009, the Companys imaging operations (part of All Other segments) experienced a severe decline in sales, margins and profitability due to a significant decline in demand for products as a result of the downturn in global economic conditions.  The drop in market demand resulted in significant declines in average selling prices and unit sales.  Due to these market and economic conditions, the Companys imaging operations and its competitors experienced significant declines in market value.  As a result, the Company concluded that there were sufficient factual circumstances for interim impairment analyses under SFAS No. 142 and it performed an assessment of goodwill for impairment.  Based on the results of the impairment analysis, the Company wrote off all $58 million of goodwill relating to its imaging operations in the second quarter of 2009.
In the first and second quarters of 2008, the Company experienced a sustained, significant decline in its stock price.  As a result of the decline in stock price, the Companys market capitalization fell significantly below the recorded value of its consolidated net assets for most of the second quarter of 2008.  The reduced market capitalization reflected, in part, the Memory segments lower average selling prices and expected continued weakness in pricing for the Companys Memory products.  Due to these market and economic conditions, the Company concluded that there were sufficient factual circumstances for interim impairment analyses of its Memory segment under SFAS No. 142 and it performed an assessment of goodwill for impairment.  Based on the results of the impairment analysis, the Company wrote off all $463 million of goodwill relating to its Memory segment in the second quarter of 2008.
(See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Supplemental Balance Sheet Information  Goodwill.)
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
Other operating (income) expense consisted of the following:
 
8
In the table above, Other for 2008 included $38 million for receipts from the U.S. government in connection with anti-dumping tariffs and for 2007, included $30 million from the sale of certain intellectual property to Toshiba Corporation and $7 million in grants received in connection with the Companys operations in China.
Income Taxes
Income taxes for 2009, 2008 and 2007 primarily reflect taxes on the Companys non-U.S. operations and U.S. alternative minimum tax.  The Company has a valuation allowance for its net deferred tax asset associated with its U.S. operations.  The benefit for taxes on U.S. operations in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was substantially offset by changes in the valuation allowance.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company had aggregate U.S. tax net operating loss carryforwards of $4.2 billion and unused U.S. tax credit carryforwards of $212 million.  The Company also had unused state tax net operating loss carryforwards of $2.6 billion and unused state tax credits of $198 million as of September 3, 2009.  Substantially all of the net operating loss carryforwards expire in 2022 to 2029 and substantially all of the tax credit carryforwards expire in 2013 to 2029.  Due to the expiration of certain foreign statutes of limitations, the Company recognized approximately $15 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits in 2008.
Equity in Net Losses of Equity Method Investees
In connection with its DRAM partnering arrangements with Nanya, the Company has investments in two Taiwan DRAM memory companies accounted for as equity method investments:  Inotera and MeiYa.  Inotera and MeiYa each have fiscal years that end on December 31.  The Company recognizes its share of Inoteras and MeiYas quarterly earnings or losses for the calendar quarter that ends within the Companys fiscal quarter.  This results in the recognition of the Companys share of earnings or losses from these entities for a period that lags the Companys fiscal periods by two months.  The Company recognized losses from these equity method investments of $140 million for 2009.
As a result of its sale of a 65% interest in its Aptina subsidiary on July 10, 2009, the Companys investment in Aptina is accounted for as an equity method investment.  The Companys shares in Aptina constitute 35% of Aptinas total common and preferred stock and 64% of Aptinas common stock.  Under the equity method, the Company recognizes its share of Aptinas results of operations based on its 64% share of Aptinas common stock on a two-month lag beginning in 2010.
(See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Supplemental Balance Sheet Information  Equity Method Investments.)
Noncontrolling Interests in Net (Income) Loss
Noncontrolling interests for 2009, 2008 and 2007 primarily reflects the share of income or losses of the Companys TECH joint venture attributed to the noncontrolling interests in TECH.  The Company purchased $99 million of TECH shares on February 27, 2009, $99 million of TECH shares on June 2, 2009, and $60 million of TECH shares on August 27, 2009.  As a result, noncontrolling interests in TECH were reduced from approximately 27% as of August 28, 2008 to approximately 15% in August 2009.  (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd.)
Stock-based Compensation
Total compensation cost for the Companys equity plans in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $44 million, $48 million and $44 million, respectively.  Stock compensation expenses fluctuate based on assessments of whether performance conditions will be achieved for the Companys performance-based stock grants.  As of September 3, 2009, $71 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards was expected to be recognized through the fourth quarter of 2013.
 
9
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
As of September 3, 2009, the Company had cash and equivalents and short-term investments totaling $1,485 million compared to $1,362 million as of August 28, 2008.  The balance as of September 3, 2009, included $114 million held at the Companys IM Flash joint ventures and $188 million held at the Companys TECH joint venture.  The Companys ability to access funds held by the joint ventures to finance the Companys other operations is subject to agreement by the joint venture partners, debt covenants and contractual limitations.  Amounts held by TECH are not anticipated to be available to finance the Companys other operations.
The Companys liquidity is highly dependent on average selling prices for its products and the timing of capital expenditures, both of which can vary significantly from period to period.  Depending on conditions in the semiconductor memory market, the Companys cash flows from operations and current holdings of cash and investments may not be adequate to meet the Companys needs for capital expenditures and operations.  Historically, the Company has used external sources of financing to fund these needs.  Due to conditions in the credit markets, it may be difficult to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company.  The Company significantly reduced its actual capital expenditures for 2009 and planned capital expenditures for 2010.  In addition, the Company is considering further financing alternatives, continuing to limit capital expenditures and implementing further cost reduction initiatives.
  Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,206 million in 2009 which reflected approximately $642 million generated from the production and sales of the Companys products and approximately $564 million provided from the management of working capital.  Specifically, the Company reduced the amount of working capital as of September 3, 2009 invested in inventories by $304 million and receivables by $126 million as compared to August 28, 2008.
Operating activities:
  Net cash used for investing activities was $674 million in 2009, which included cash expenditures of $488 million for property, plant and equipment and cash expenditures of $408 million for the acquisition of a 35.5% interest in Inotera, partially offset by the net effect of maturities and purchases of marketable investment securities of $124 million.  A significant portion of the capital expenditures related to IM Flash and TECH operations.  The Company believes that to develop new product and process technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and maintain product quality, it must continue to invest in manufacturing technologies, facilities and capital equipment and research and development.  The Company expects that capital spending will be approximately $750 million to $850 million for 2010.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company had commitments of approximately $276 million for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, most of which is expected to be paid within one year.
Investing activities:
  Net cash used for financing activities was $290 million in 2009, which primarily reflects $705 million of distributions to joint venture partners, $429 million in debt payments and $144 million in payments on equipment purchase contracts, partially offset by $716 million in proceeds from borrowings and $276 million in net proceeds from the issuance of common stock.
Financing activities:
On April 15, 2009, the Company issued 69.3 million shares of common stock for $4.15 per share in a registered public offering.  The Company received net proceeds of $276 million after deducting underwriting fees and other offering costs of $12 million.
On April 15, 2009, the Company issued $230 million of 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due October 15, 2013 (the 4.25% Senior Notes).  Issuance costs associated with the 4.25% Senior Notes totaled $7 million. The initial conversion rate for the 4.25% Senior Notes is 196.7052 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 4.25% Senior Notes. This is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $5.08 per share of common stock. Holders of the 4.25% Senior Notes may convert their 4.25% Senior Notes at any time prior to maturity, unless previously redeemed or repurchased.  The Company may not redeem the 4.25% Senior Notes prior to April 20, 2012.  On or after April 20, 2012, the Company may redeem for cash all or part of the 4.25% Senior Notes if the closing price of its common stock has been at least 135% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days during a 30 consecutive trading day period.
 
10
 
Concurrent with the offering of the 4.25% Senior Notes, the Company also entered into capped call transactions (the 2009 Capped Calls) that have an initial strike price of approximately $5.08 per share, subject to certain adjustments, which was set to equal the initial conversion price of the 4.25% Senior Notes.  The 2009 Capped Calls have a cap price of $6.64 per share and cover an approximate combined total of 45.2 million shares of common stock, and are subject to standard adjustments for instruments of this type.  The 2009 Capped Calls are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the 4.25% Senior Notes.  If, however, the market value per share of the common stock, as measured under the terms of the 2009 Capped Calls, exceeds the applicable cap price of the 2009 Capped Calls, there would be dilution to the extent that the then market value per share of the common stock exceeds the cap price.  The 2009 Capped Calls expire in October and November of 2012.  The Company paid approximately $25 million to purchase the 2009 Capped Calls.
On February 23, 2009, the Company entered into a Singapore dollar-denominated term loan agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board (EDB) enabling the Company to borrow up to $300 million Singapore dollars at 5.4% per annum.  The terms of the agreement require the Company to use the proceeds from any borrowings under the agreement to make equity contributions to its TECH Companys joint venture subsidiary.  The loan agreement further required that TECH use the proceeds from the Companys equity contributions to purchase production assets and meet certain production milestones related to the implementation of advanced process manufacturing.  The loan contains a covenant that limits the amount of indebtedness TECH can incur without approval from the EDB.  The loan is collateralized by the Companys shares in TECH up to a maximum of 66% of TECHs outstanding shares.  The Company drew $150 million Singapore dollars in the second quarter of 2009 and an additional $150 million Singapore dollar in the third quarter of 2009.  The aggregate $300 million Singapore dollars outstanding ($208 million U.S. dollars as of September 3, 2009) is due in February 2012 with interest payable quarterly.
In the first quarter of 2009, in connection with its purchase of its interest in Inotera, the Company entered into a two-year, variable rate term loan with Nan Ya Plastics and a six-month, variable rate term loan with Inotera.  The Company received loan proceeds of $200 million from Nan Ya Plastics and $85 million from Inotera.  The Company repaid the $85 million Inotera loan in the third quarter of 2009.  Under the terms of the Nan Ya Plastics loan agreement, interest is payable quarterly at LIBOR plus 2%.  The interest rate resets quarterly and was 2.4% per annum as of September 3, 2009.  Based on imputed interest rate of 12.1%, the Company recorded the Nan Ya Plastics loan net of a discount of $28 million, which is recognized as interest expense over the life of the loan.  The Nan Ya Plastics loan is collateralized by a first priority security interest in the Inotera shares owned by the Company (approximate carrying value of $229 million as of September 3, 2009).
In 2008, the Companys TECH joint venture subsidiary drew $600 million under a credit facility at SIBOR plus 2.5%.  The credit facility is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of TECH (approximately $1,498 million as of September 3, 2009) and contains covenants that, among other requirements, establish certain liquidity, debt service coverage and leverage ratios, and restrict TECHs ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and acquire or dispose of assets.  TECH repaid $50 million of principal amounts in 2009 and remaining payments are due in $50 million quarterly installments from September 2009 through May 2012.  Under the terms of the credit facility, TECH held $30 million in restricted cash as of September 3, 2009, which was increased to $60 million in the first quarter of 2010.  The Company has guaranteed approximately 85% of the outstanding amount borrowed under TECHs credit facility and the Companys guarantee could increase up to 100% of the outstanding amount borrowed under the facility based on further increases in the Companys ownership interest in TECH and other conditions.
(See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Supplemental Balance Sheet Information  Debt.)
  In 2009, IM Flash distributed $695 million to Intel and the Company expects that it will make additional distributions to Intel in 2010.  Timing of these distributions and any future contributions, however, is subject to market conditions and approval of the partners.
Joint ventures:
The Company purchased $99 million of TECH shares on February 27, 2009, $99 million of TECH shares on June 2, 2009, and $60 million of TECH shares on August 27, 2009.  As a result, the Companys ownership interest in TECH increased from approximately 73% as of August 28, 2008 to approximately 85% in August 2009. The Company expects to make additional capital contributions to TECH in 2010 to support its continued transition to 50nm wafer processing.  The timing and amount of these contributions is subject to market conditions.
 
11
 
  The following table summarizes the Companys significant contractual obligations at September 3, 2009, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on the Companys liquidity and cash flows in future periods.
Contractual obligations:
The obligations disclosed above do not include contractual obligations recorded on the Companys balance sheet as current liabilities except for the current portion of long-term debt.  The expected timing of payment amounts of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information.  Timing and actual amounts paid may differ depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services, market prices or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.
Purchase obligations include all commitments to purchase goods or services of either a fixed or minimum quantity that meet any of the following criteria: (1) they are noncancelable, (2) the Company would incur a penalty if the agreement was cancelled, or (3) the Company must make specified minimum payments even if it does not take delivery of the contracted products or services (take-or-pay).  If the obligation to purchase goods or services is noncancelable, the entire value of the contract was included in the above table.  If the obligation is cancelable, but the Company would incur a penalty if cancelled, the dollar amount of the penalty was included as a purchase obligation.  Contracted minimum amounts specified in take-or-pay contracts are also included in the above table as they represent the portion of each contract that is a firm commitment.
Pursuant to the Inotera Supply Agreement, the Company has an obligation to purchase up to 50% of Inoteras output of semiconductor memory components subject to specific terms and conditions.  As purchase quantities are based on qualified production output, the Inotera Supply Agreement does not contain a fixed or minimum purchase quantity and therefore the Company did not include its obligations under the Inotera Supply Agreement in the contractual obligations table above.  The Companys obligation under the Inotera Supply Agreement also fluctuates due to pricing which is based on manufacturing costs and margins associated with the resale of DRAM products.  Pursuant to the Companys obligations under the Inotera Supply Agreement, the Company purchased $46 million of trench DRAM products from Inotera in 2009.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
Concurrent with the offering of the 1.875% Convertible Notes in May 2007, the Company paid approximately $151 million for three Capped Call transactions (the Capped Calls).  The Capped Calls cover an aggregate of approximately 91.3 million shares of common stock.  The Capped Calls are in three equal tranches with cap prices of $17.25, $20.13 and $23.00 per share, respectively, each with an initial strike price of approximately $14.23 per share, subject to certain adjustments.  The Capped Calls expire on various dates between November 2011 and December 2012.  The Capped Calls are intended to reduce potential dilution upon conversion of the Convertible Notes.
Concurrent with the offering of the 4.25% Senior Notes in April, 2009, the Company paid approximately $25 million for three capped call instruments that have an initial strike price of approximately $5.08 per share (the 2009 Capped Calls).  The 2009 Capped Calls have a cap price of $6.64 per share and cover an aggregate of approximately 45.2 million shares of common stock.  The Capped Calls expire in October and November of 2012.  The 2009 Capped Calls are intended to reduce potential dilution upon conversion of the 4.25% Senior Notes.
(See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Supplemental Balance Sheet Information  Shareholders Equity  Capped Call Transactions.)
 
12
 
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards
In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FSP No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement).  FSP No. APB 14-1 requires that issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion separately account for the liability and equity components of such instruments in a manner such that interest cost will be recognized at the entitys nonconvertible debt borrowing rate in subsequent periods.  The Company adopted this standard as of the beginning of 2010 and retrospectively accounted for its $1.3 billion of 1.875% convertible senior notes under the provisions of FSP No. APB 14-1 from the May 2007 issuance date of the notes.  As a result, prior financial statement amounts were recast.  (See Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards note.)
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment of ARB No. 51.  SFAS No. 160 requires that (1) noncontrolling interests be reported as a separate component of equity, (2) net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest be separately identified in the statement of operations, (3) changes in a parents ownership interest while the parent retains its controlling interest be accounted for as equity transactions and (4) any retained noncontrolling equity investment upon the deconsolidation of a subsidiary be initially measured at fair value.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 160 effective as of the beginning of 2010.  As a result of the retrospective adoption of the presentation and disclosure requirements, prior financial statement amounts were recast.  (See Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards note.)
In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115.  Under SFAS No. 159, an entity may elect to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on an instrument by instrument basis, subject to certain restrictions.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 159 effective as of the beginning of 2009.  The Company did not elect to measure any existing items at fair value upon the adoption of SFAS No. 159.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS No. 157 (as amended by subsequent FSPs) defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 157 effective as of the beginning of 2009 for financial assets and financial liabilities.  The adoption did not have a significant impact on the Companys financial statements.  SFAS No. 157 is also effective for all other assets and liabilities of the Company as of the beginning of 2010.  The Company does not expect the adoption to have a significant impact on its financial statements as of the adoption date.  The impact to periods subsequent to the initial adoption of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities will depend on the nature and extent of nonfinancial assets and liabilities measured at fair value after the beginning of 2010.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (SFAS No. 167), which (1) replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards calculation for determining whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary in a variable interest entity with an approach that is primarily qualitative, (2) requires ongoing assessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and (3) .  The Company is required to adopt SFAS No. 167 as of the beginning of 2011.  The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of SFAS No. 167 will have on its financial statements.
requires additional disclosures about an enterprises involvement in variable interest entities
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations(SFAS No. 141(R)), which establishes the principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination (1) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree, (2) recognizes and measures goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase and (3) determines what information to disclose.  SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for the Company as of the beginning of 2010.  The impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will depend on the nature and extent of business combinations occurring after the beginning of 2010.
 
13
 
Critical Accounting Estimates
The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures.  Estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, forecasted future events and various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Estimates and judgments may vary under different assumptions or conditions.  The Company evaluates its estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis.  Management believes the accounting policies below are critical in the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and results of operations and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments.
  Determination and the allocation of the purchase price of acquired operations significantly influences the period in which costs are recognized.  Accounting for acquisitions and consolidations requires the Company to estimate the fair value of the individual assets and liabilities acquired as well as various forms of consideration given, which involves a number of judgments, assumptions and estimates that could materially affect the amount and timing of costs recognized.  The Company typically obtains independent third party valuation studies to assist in determining fair values, including assistance in determining future cash flows, appropriate discount rates and comparable market values.  Determining whether or not to consolidate a variable interest entity may require judgment in assessing whether the Company is the entitys primary beneficiary.
Acquisitions and consolidations:
  The Company is subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies.  Considerable judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of any loss from such contingencies.  An accrual is made when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.  The Company accrues a liability and charges operations for the estimated costs of adjudication or settlement of asserted and unasserted claims existing as of the balance sheet date.
Contingencies:
  The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that an impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate (including declines in selling prices for products) or a decision to sell or dispose of a reporting unit.  Goodwill is tested for impairment using a two-step process.  In the first step, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the unit.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is considered not impaired.  If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, then the second step of the impairment test must be performed in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill.  Determining the implied fair value of goodwill requires valuation of all of the Companys tangible and intangible assets and liabilities.  If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then the Company would record an impairment loss equal to the difference.
Goodwill and intangible assets:
Determining when to test for impairment, the Companys reporting units, the fair value of a reporting unit and the fair value of assets and liabilities within a reporting unit, requires judgment and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables.  The Company bases fair value estimates on assumptions it believes to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain.  Actual future results may differ from those estimates.  In addition, judgments and assumptions are required to allocate assets and liabilities to reporting units.  In the second quarter of 2009, the Company wrote off all $58 million of its goodwill related to imaging operations (the primary component of All Other segments) based on the results of its test for impairment.  In the second quarter of 2008, the Company wrote off all $463 million of its goodwill relating to its Memory segment based on the results of its test for impairment.
The Company tests other identified intangible assets with definite useful lives and subject to amortization when events and circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable by comparing the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.  The Company tests intangible assets with indefinite lives annually for impairment using a fair value method such as discounted cash flows.  Estimating fair values involves significant assumptions, especially regarding future sales prices, sales volumes, costs and discount rates.
 
14
 
  The Company is required to estimate its provision for income taxes and amounts ultimately payable or recoverable in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world.  Estimates involve interpretations of regulations and are inherently complex.  Resolution of income tax treatments in individual jurisdictions may not be known for many years after completion of any fiscal year.  The Company is also required to evaluate the realizability of its deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires the assessment of the Companys performance and other relevant factors when determining the need for a valuation allowance with respect to these deferred tax assets.  Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on the Companys ability to generate future taxable income.
Income taxes:
  Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market value and the Company recorded charges of $603 million in aggregate for 2009 and $282 million in aggregate for 2008, to write down the carrying value of inventories of memory products to their estimated market values.  Cost includes labor, material and overhead costs, including product and process technology costs.  Determining market value of inventories involves numerous judgments, including projecting average selling prices and sales volumes for future periods and costs to complete products in work in process inventories.  To project average selling prices and sales volumes, the Company reviews recent sales volumes, existing customer orders, current contract prices, industry analysis of supply and demand, seasonal factors, general economic trends and other information.  When these analyses reflect estimated market values below the Companys manufacturing costs, the Company records a charge to cost of goods sold in advance of when the inventory is actually sold.  Differences in forecasted average selling prices used in calculating lower of cost or market adjustments can result in significant changes in the estimated net realizable value of product inventories and accordingly the amount of write-down recorded.  For example, a 5% variance in the estimated selling prices would have changed the estimated market value of the Companys semiconductor memory inventory by approximately $75 million at September 3, 2009.  Due to the volatile nature of the semiconductor memory industry, actual selling prices and volumes often vary significantly from projected prices and volumes and, as a result, the timing of when product costs are charged to operations can vary significantly.
Inventories:
U.S. GAAP provides for products to be grouped into categories in order to compare costs to market values.  The amount of any inventory write-down can vary significantly depending on the determination of inventory categories.  The Companys inventories have been categorized as memory and imaging products.  The major characteristics the Company considers in determining inventory categories are product type and markets.
  Costs incurred to acquire product and process technology or to patent technology developed by the Company are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over periods currently ranging up to 10 years.  The Company capitalizes a portion of costs incurred based on its analysis of historical and projected patents issued as a percent of patents filed.  Capitalized product and process technology costs are amortized over the shorter of (i) the estimated useful life of the technology, (ii) the patent term or (iii) the term of the technology agreement.
Product and process technology:
  The Company reviews the carrying value of property, plant and equipment for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable from the estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and/or disposition.  In cases where undiscounted expected future cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value of the assets.  The estimation of future cash flows involves numerous assumptions which require judgment by the Company, including, but not limited to, future use of the assets for Company operations versus sale or disposal of the assets, future selling prices for the Companys products and future production and sales volumes.  In addition, judgment is required by the Company in determining the groups of assets for which impairment tests are separately performed.
Property, plant and equipment:
  Costs related to the conceptual formulation and design of products and processes are expensed as research and development as incurred.  Determining when product development is complete requires judgment by the Company.  The Company deems development of a product complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability.  Subsequent to product qualification, product costs are valued in inventory.
Research and development:
  Under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), stock-based compensation cost is estimated at the grant date based on the fair-value of the award and is recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period of the award.  For stock-based compensation awards with graded vesting that were granted after 2005, the Company recognizes compensation expense using the straight-line amortization method.  For performance-based stock awards, the expense recognized is dependent on the probability of the performance measure being achieved.  The Company utilizes forecasts of future performance to assess these probabilities and this assessment requires considerable judgment.
Stock-based compensation:
15
 
Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires considerable judgment, including estimating stock price volatility, expected option life and forfeiture rates.  The Company develops its estimates based on historical data and market information which can change significantly over time.  A small change in the estimates used can result in a relatively large change in the estimated valuation.  The Company uses the Black-Scholes option valuation model to value employee stock awards.  The Company estimates stock price volatility based on an average of its historical volatility and the implied volatility derived from traded options on the Companys stock.
16

 
EXHIBIT 99.4
Item 7A.  
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
Interest Rate Risk
As of September 3, 2009, $2,064 million of the Companys $2,803 million of debt was at fixed interest rates.  As a result, the fair value of the Companys debt instruments fluctuates based on changes in market interest rates.  The estimated fair value of the Companys debt instruments was $2,868 million as of September 3, 2009 and was $2,167 million as of August 28, 2008.  The Company estimates that as of September 3, 2009, a 1% decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt instruments by approximately $55 million.  As of September 3, 2009, $739 million of the Companys debt instruments had variable interest rates and an increase of 1% would increase annual interest expense by approximately $8 million.
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
The information in this section should be read in conjunction with the information related to changes in the exchange rates of foreign currency in Item 1A. Risk Factors.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect the Companys results of operations or financial condition.
The functional currency for substantially all of the Companys operations is the U.S. dollar.  The Company held cash and other assets in foreign currencies valued at an aggregate of U.S. $229 million as of September 3, 2009 and U.S. $425 million as of August 28, 2008.  The Company also had foreign currency liabilities valued at an aggregate of U.S. $742 million as of September 3, 2009, and U.S. $580 million as of August 28, 2008.  Significant components of the Companys assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were as follows (in U.S. dollar equivalents):
The Company estimates that, based on its assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar as of September 3, 2009, a 1% change in the exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar would result in foreign currency gains or losses of approximately U.S. $3 million for the Singapore dollar and U.S. $1 million for euro and the yen.  Historically, the Company has not used derivative instruments to hedge its foreign currency exchange rate risk.
 
 
 
1 

 
EXHIBIT 99.5
 
Item 8.  
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
F- 1
 
 
 
F- 2
 
 
 
F- 3
 
 
F- 4
 
 
F- 5
 
Significant Accounting Policies
  Micron Technology, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to collectively as the Company) is a global manufacturer and marketer of semiconductor devices, principally DRAM and NAND Flash memory.  In addition, the Company manufactures semiconductor components for CMOS image sensors and other semiconductor products.   The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.
Basis of presentation:
In 2009, the Company had two reportable segments, Memory and Imaging.  In the first quarter of 2010, Imaging no longer met the quantitative thresholds of a reportable segment and management does not expect that Imaging will meet the quantitative thresholds in future years.  As a result, Imaging was no longer considered a reportable segment and was included in the Companys All Other nonreportable segments.  All amounts have been recast to reflect Imaging in All Other.  The Memory segments primary products are DRAM and NAND Flash memory.  Operating results of All Other primarily reflect activity of Imaging and also include activity of the Companys microdisplay and other operations.  (See Segment Information.)
The Companys fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31.  The Companys fiscal 2009 contained 53 weeks and fiscal 2008 and 2007 each contained 52 weeks.  All period references are to the Companys fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated.
  Effective at the beginning of 2010, the Company adopted new accounting standards for noncontrolling interests and certain convertible debt instruments.  These new accounting standards required retrospective application and the Companys financial statements contained herein have been adjusted to reflect the impact of adopting these new accounting standards.  (See Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards.)
   
 
Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards:
  The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures.  Estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, forecasted events and various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Estimates and judgments may differ under different assumptions or conditions.  The Company evaluates its estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis.  Actual results could differ from estimates.
Use of estimates:
  The Company generally provides a limited warranty that its products are in compliance with Company specifications existing at the time of delivery.  Under the Companys general terms and conditions of sale, liability for certain failures of product during a stated warranty period is usually limited to repair or replacement of defective items or return of, or a credit with respect to, amounts paid for such items.  Under certain circumstances, the Company provides more extensive limited warranty coverage than that provided under the Companys general terms and conditions.  The Companys warranty obligations are not material.
Product warranty:
  The Company recognizes product or license revenue when persuasive evidence that a sales arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured.  Since the Company is unable to estimate returns and changes in market price and therefore the price is not fixed or determinable, for  sales made under agreements allowing pricing protection or rights of return (other than for product warranty), such sales are deferred until customers have resold the product.
Revenue recognition:
 
F- 6
 
  Costs related to the conceptual formulation and design of products and processes are expensed as research and development as incurred.  Determining when product development is complete requires judgment by the Company.  The Company deems development of a product complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability.  Subsequent to product qualification, product costs are valued in inventory.  Product design and other research and development costs for NAND Flash are shared equally among the Company and Intel Corporation (Intel).  Charges from the cost-sharing agreement to Intel are reflected as a reduction of research and development expense.  (See Consolidated Variable Interest Entities  NAND Flash joint ventures with Intel.)
Research and development:
  Stock-based compensation is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period.  For stock awards granted after the beginning of 2006, expenses are amortized under the straight-line attribution method.  The Company issues new shares upon the exercise of stock options or conversion of share units.  (See Equity Plans.)
Stock-based compensation:
  The U.S. dollar is the Companys functional currency for substantially all of its consolidated operations.
Functional currency:
  Basic earnings per share is computed based on the weighted-average number of common shares and stock rights outstanding.  Diluted earnings per share is computed based on the weighted-average number of common shares and stock rights outstanding plus the dilutive effects of stock options, warrants and convertible notes.  Potential common shares that would increase earnings per share amounts or decrease loss per share amounts are antidilutive and are, therefore, excluded from diluted per share calculations.
Earnings per share:
  Cash equivalents include highly liquid short-term investments with original maturities to the Company of three months or less, readily convertible to known amounts of cash.  Investments with original maturities greater than three months and remaining maturities less than one year are included in short-term investments.  Investments with remaining maturities greater than one year are included in other noncurrent assets.  Securities classified as available-for-sale are stated at market value.  The carrying value of investment securities sold is determined using the specific identification method.
Financial instruments:
  Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market value.  Cost includes labor, material and overhead costs, including product and process technology costs.  Determining fair market values of inventories involves numerous judgments, including projecting average selling prices and sales volumes for future periods and costs to complete products in work in process inventories.  When fair market values are below the Companys costs, the Company records a charge to cost of goods sold to write down inventories to their estimated market value in advance of when the inventories are actually sold.  The Companys inventories have been categorized as memory and imaging products for purposes of determining average cost and fair market value.  The major characteristics the Company considers in determining categories are product type and markets.
Inventories:
  Costs incurred to acquire product and process technology or to patent technology developed by the Company are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to 10 years.  The Company capitalizes a portion of costs incurred based on its analysis of historical and projected patents issued as a percent of patents filed.  Capitalized product and process technology costs are amortized over the shorter of (i) the estimated useful life of the technology, (ii) the patent term or (iii) the term of the technology agreement.  Fully-amortized assets are removed from product and process technology and accumulated amortization.
Product and process technology:
  Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives of 5 to 30 years for buildings, 2 to 20 years for equipment and 3 to 5 years for software.  Assets held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value and are included in other noncurrent assets.  When property or equipment is retired or otherwise disposed of, the net book value of the asset is removed from the Companys accounts and any gain or loss is included in the Companys results of operations.
Property, plant and equipment:
The Company capitalizes interest on borrowings during the active construction period of major capital projects.  Capitalized interest is added to the cost of the underlying assets and is amortized over the useful lives of the assets.  The Company capitalized interest costs of $5 million, $21 million and $18 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, in connection with various capital projects.
 
F- 7
 
In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FSP No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement).  FSP No. APB 14-1 requires that issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion separately account for the liability and equity components of such instruments in a manner such that interest cost will be recognized at the entitys nonconvertible debt borrowing rate in subsequent periods.  The Company adopted this standard as of the beginning of 2010 and retrospectively accounted for its $1.3 billion of 1.875% convertible senior notes under the provisions of FSP No. APB 14-1 from the May 2007 issuance date of the notes.  As a result, prior financial statement amounts were recast.  (See Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards note.)
Recently adopted accounting standards:  
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment of ARB No. 51.  SFAS No. 160 requires that (1) noncontrolling interests be reported as a separate component of equity, (2) net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest be separately identified in the statement of operations, (3) changes in a parents ownership interest while the parent retains its controlling interest be accounted for as equity transactions and (4) any retained noncontrolling equity investment upon the deconsolidation of a subsidiary be initially measured at fair value.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 160 effective as of the beginning of 2010.  As a result of the retrospective adoption of the presentation and disclosure requirements, prior financial statement amounts were recast.  (See Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards note.)
In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115.  Under SFAS No. 159, an entity may elect to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on an instrument by instrument basis, subject to certain restrictions.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 159 effective as of the beginning of 2009.  The Company did not elect to measure any existing items at fair value upon the adoption of SFAS No. 159.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS No. 157 (as amended by subsequent FSPs) defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 157 effective as of the beginning of 2009 for financial assets and financial liabilities.  The adoption did not have a significant impact on the Companys financial statements.  SFAS No. 157 is also effective for all other assets and liabilities of the Company as of the beginning of 2010.  The Company does not expect the adoption to have a significant impact on its financial statements as of the adoption date.  The impact to periods subsequent to the initial adoption of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities will depend on the nature and extent of nonfinancial assets and liabilities measured at fair value after the beginning of 2010.
  In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (SFAS No. 167), which (1) replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards calculation for determining whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary in a variable interest entity with an approach that is primarily qualitative, (2) requires ongoing assessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and (3) .  The Company is required to adopt SFAS No. 167 as of the beginning of 2011.  The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of SFAS No. 167 will have on its financial statements.
Recently issued accounting standards:
requires additional disclosures about an enterprises involvement in variable interest entities
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations(SFAS No. 141(R)), which establishes the principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination (1) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree, (2) recognizes and measures goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase and (3) determines what information to disclose.  SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for the Company as of the beginning of 2010.  The impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will depend on the nature and extent of business combinations occurring after the beginning of 2010.
 
F- 8
 
Supplemental Balance Sheet Information
In 2009 and 2008, the Company recognized losses of $15 million and $8 million, respectively, for other-than-temporary impairments of investment securities and in 2008 realized losses of $5 million on sales of investment securities.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company had gross unrealized gains of $9 million in accumulated other comprehensive income, substantially all of which related to equity securities that had a fair value of $15 million.  As of August 28, 2008, the Company had gross unrealized losses of $7 million in accumulated other comprehensive income, substantially all of which related to investments in commercial paper that had a fair value of $86 million and had been in an unrealized loss position for less than one year.
As of September 3, 2009, related party receivables included $69 million due from Aptina Imaging Corporation under a wafer supply agreement for image sensor products and $1 million due from Inotera Memories, Inc. for reimbursement of expenses incurred under a technology transfer agreement.
As of September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008, other receivables included $29 million and $71 million, respectively, due from Intel for amounts related to NAND Flash product design and process development activities.  Other receivables as of September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008 also included $40 million and $75 million, respectively, due from settlement of litigation and $58 million, as of August 28, 2008, due from settlements of pricing adjustments with certain suppliers.
The Companys results of operations for the second and first quarters of 2009 included charges of $234 million and $369 million, respectively, to write down the carrying value of work in process and finished goods inventories of memory products (both DRAM and NAND Flash) to their estimated market values.  For the fourth, second and first quarters of 2008, the Company recorded charges to write down the carrying value of work in process and finished goods inventories by $205 million, $15 million and $62 million, respectively.
 
F- 9
 
During 2009, the Company capitalized $88 million for product and process technology with a weighted-average useful life of 9 years.  During 2008, the Company capitalized $43 million for product and process technology with a weighted-average useful life of 10 years.
Amortization expense for intangible assets was $75 million, $80 million and $75 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Annual amortization expense for intangible assets is estimated to be $66 million for 2010, $63 million for 2011, $54 million for 2012, $50 million for 2013 and $41 million for 2014.
Depreciation expense was $2,039 million, $1,976 million and $1,644 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
The Company, through its IM Flash joint venture, has an unequipped wafer manufacturing facility in Singapore that has been idle since it was completed in the first quarter of 2009.  The Company has been recording depreciation expense for the facility since it was completed and its net book value was $624 million as of September 3, 2009.  Utilization of the facility is dependent upon market conditions, including, but not limited to, worldwide market supply of, and demand for, semiconductor products, availability of financing, agreement between the Company and its joint venture partner and the Companys operations, cash flows and alternative capacity utilization opportunities.  (See Consolidated Variable Interest Entities  NAND Flash joint ventures with Intel note.)
As part of a restructure plan initiated in 2009 to shut down 200mm manufacturing operations at its Boise, Idaho facilities, the Company recorded impairment charges of $152 million in 2009.  In connection therewith, assets with a carrying value of $34 million as of September 3, 2009 (original acquisition cost of $1,422 million) were classified as held for sale and included in other noncurrent assets.  (See Restructure note.)
As of September 3, 2009, property, plant and equipment with a carrying value of $1,176 million was collateral under TECHs credit facility and $86 million of property, plant and equipment was collateral under the Companys other notes payable.  (See Debt and TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. notes.)
As of August 28, 2008, other noncurrent assets included goodwill of $58 million, all of which related to the Companys imaging operations (the primary component of All Other segments).  In the second quarter of 2009, the Company wrote off the $58 million of goodwill based on the results of its test for impairment.  In the second quarter of 2008, the Company wrote off the $463 million of goodwill relating to its Memory segment based on the results of its test for impairment.
F- 10
SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at a reporting unit level.  The Company has determined that its reporting units are its Memory segment and its imaging operations based on its organizational structure and the financial information provided to and reviewed by management.  The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that an impairment may have occurred.  Goodwill is tested for impairment using a two-step process.  In the first step, the fair value of a reporting unit is compared to its carrying value.  If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the fair value of a reporting unit, the second step of the impairment test is performed in order to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill of a reporting unit.  If the carrying value of the goodwill of a reporting unit exceeds its implied fair value, goodwill is deemed impaired and is written down to the extent of the difference.
In the second quarter of 2009, the Companys imaging operations experienced a severe decline in sales, margins and profitability due to a significant decline in demand as a result of the downturn in global economic conditions.  The drop in market demand resulted in significant declines in average selling prices and unit sales.  Due to these market and economic conditions, the Companys imaging operations and its competitors experienced significant declines in market value.  As a result, the Company concluded that there were sufficient factual circumstances for interim impairment analyses under SFAS No. 142.  Accordingly, in the second quarter of 2009, the Company performed an assessment of its imaging operations goodwill for impairment.
In the first step of the impairment analysis, the Company performed valuation analyses utilizing both income and market approaches to determine the fair value of its reporting units.  Under the income approach, the Company determined the fair value based on estimated future cash flows discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of the imaging operations and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.  Estimated future cash flows were based on the Companys internal projection models, industry projections and other assumptions deemed reasonable by management.  Under the market-based approach, the Company derived the fair value of its imaging operations based on revenue multiples of comparable publicly-traded peer companies.  In the second step of the impairment analysis, the Company determined the implied fair value of goodwill for imaging operations by allocating the fair value of the operations to all of its assets and liabilities in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, as if the imaging operations had been acquired in a business combination and the price paid to acquire it was the fair value.
Based on the results of the Companys assessment of goodwill for impairment, it was determined that the carrying value of its imaging operations exceeded its estimated fair value as of the end of the second quarter of 2009.  Therefore, the Company performed the second step of the impairment test to estimate the implied fair value of goodwill, which indicated there would be no remaining implied value attributable to goodwill for imaging operations.  Accordingly, the Company wrote off all the $58 million of goodwill associated with its imaging operations as of March 5, 2009.
In the first and second quarters of 2008, the Company experienced a sustained, significant decline in its stock price.  As a result of the decline in stock prices, the Companys market capitalization fell significantly below the recorded value of its consolidated net assets for most of the second quarter of 2008.  The reduced market capitalization at that time reflected, in part, the Memory segments lower average selling prices and expected continued weakness in pricing for the Companys memory products.  Accordingly, in the second quarter of 2008, the Company performed an assessment of Memory segment goodwill for impairment.   In the first step of the impairment analysis, the Company performed extensive valuation analyses utilizing both income and market approaches to determine the fair value of its reporting units, which indicated that the carrying value of the Memory segment exceeded its estimated fair value.  Therefore, the Company performed the second step of the impairment test to determine the implied fair value of goodwill, which indicated that there would be no remaining implied value attributable to goodwill in the Memory segment and accordingly, the Company wrote off all $463 million of goodwill associated with its Memory segment as of February 28, 2008.
The Company has partnered with Nanya Technology Corporation (Nanya) in two Taiwan DRAM memory companies, Inotera Memories, Inc. (Inotera) and MeiYa Technology Corporation (MeiYa), which are accounted for as equity method investments.  The Company also has an equity method investment in Aptina Imaging Corporation (Aptina), a CMOS imaging company.
 
F- 11
 
  The Company has a partnering arrangement with Nanya pursuant to which the Company and Nanya jointly develop process technology and designs to manufacture stack DRAM products.  In addition, the Company has deployed and licensed certain intellectual property related to the manufacture of stack DRAM products to Nanya and licensed certain intellectual property from Nanya.  As a result, the Company is to receive an aggregate of $207 million from Nanya through 2010.  The Company recognized $105 million of license revenue in net sales from this agreement in 2009, and since May 2008 through September 3, 2009, has recognized $142 million of cumulative license revenue.  In addition, the Company expects to receive royalties in future periods from Nanya for sales of stack DRAM products manufactured by or for Nanya.
DRAM joint ventures with Nanya:
The Company has concluded that both Inotera and MeiYa are variable interest entities as defined in FIN 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  an interpretation of ARB No. 51, because of the Inotera and MeiYa supply agreements with Micron and Nanya.  Nanya and the Company are considered related parties under the provisions of FIN 46(R).  The Company reviewed several factors to determine whether it is the primary beneficiary of Inotera and MeiYa, including the size and nature of the entities operations relative to Nanya and the Company, nature of the day-to-day operations and certain other factors.  Based on those factors, the Company determined that Nanya is more closely associated with, and therefore the primary beneficiary of, Inotera and MeiYa.  The Company accounts for its interests using the equity method of accounting and does not consolidate these entities.
Inotera and MeiYa each have fiscal years that end on December 31.  The Company recognizes its share of Inoteras and MeiYas quarterly earnings or losses for the calendar quarter that ends within the Companys fiscal quarter.  As a result, the Company recognizes its share of earnings or losses from these entities for a period that lags the Companys fiscal periods by two months.
  In the first quarter of 2009, the Company acquired a 35.5% ownership interest in Inotera, a publicly-traded entity in Taiwan, from Qimonda AG (Qimonda) for $398 million.  The interest in Inotera was acquired for cash, a portion of which was funded from loan proceeds of $200 million received from Nan Ya Plastics Corporation, an affiliate of Nanya.  A portion was also funded from loan proceeds of $85 million received from Inotera, which the Company repaid with accrued interest in the third quarter of 2009.  The loans were recorded at their fair values, which reflect an aggregate discount of $31 million from their face amounts.  This aggregate discount was recorded as a reduction of the Companys basis in its investment in Inotera.  The Company also capitalized $10 million of costs and other fees incurred in connection with the acquisition.  As a result of the above transactions, the initial carrying value of the Companys investment in Inotera was $377 million.  As of the date of acquisition, the Companys proportionate share of Inoteras shareholders equity was approximately $250 million higher than the Companys initial carrying value of $377 million.  Substantially all of this difference will be amortized over the estimated five-year weighted-average remaining useful life of Inoteras production equipment and facilities as of the acquisition date (the Inotera Amortization).  (See Debt note.)
Inotera
:
On August 3, 2009, Inotera finalized the issuance of common shares in a public offering at a price equal to $16.02 New Taiwan dollars per common share (approximately $0.49 U.S. dollars at August 3, 2009).  Inotera expects to use the net proceeds of approximately $310 million to begin conversion to the Companys 50nm stack DRAM technology.  As a result of the issuance, the Companys interest in Inotera decreased from 35.5% to 29.8% and the Company will recognize a gain of $59 million in the first quarter of 2010.  As of September 3, 2009, the ownership of Inotera was held 29.9% by Nanya, 29.8% by the Company and the balance was publicly held.
 
F- 12
 
In connection with the acquisition of the shares in Inotera, the Company and Nanya entered into a supply agreement with Inotera (the Inotera Supply Agreement) pursuant to which Inotera will sell trench and stack DRAM products to the Company and Nanya.  The Company has rights and obligations to purchase up to 50% of Inoteras wafer production capacity.  Inoteras actual wafer production will vary from time to time based on market and other conditions.  Inoteras trench production is expected to transition to the Companys stack process technology.  Inotera charges the Company and Nanya for a portion of the costs associated with its underutilized capacity, if any.  The cost to the Company of wafers purchased under the Inotera Supply Agreement is based on a margin sharing formula among the Company, Nanya and Inotera.  Under such formula, all parties manufacturing costs related to wafers supplied by Inotera, as well as the Companys and Nanyas selling prices for the resale of products from wafers supplied by Inotera, are considered in determining costs for wafers from Inotera.  Under the Inotera Supply Agreement, the Companys purchase obligation includes purchasing Inoteras trench DRAM capacity (less any trench DRAM products sold to Qimonda pursuant to a separate supply agreement between Inotera and Qimonda (the Qimonda Supply Agreement)).  Under the Qimonda Supply Agreement, Qimonda was obligated to purchase trench DRAM products resulting from wafers started for it by Inotera through July 2009 in accordance with a ramp down schedule specified in the Qimonda Supply Agreement.  In the second quarter of 2009, Qimonda filed for bankruptcy protection and defaulted on its obligations to purchase products from Inotera.  Pursuant to the Companys obligations under the Inotera Supply Agreement, the Company recorded $95 million of charges to cost of goods sold in 2009 for underutilized capacity.  For 2009, the Company purchased $46 million of trench DRAM products from Inotera under the Inotera Supply Agreement.
The Companys results of operations for 2009 also include losses of $130 million for the Companys share of Inoteras losses from the acquisition date through the second calendar quarter of 2009.  The losses recorded by the Company are net of $38 million of the Inotera Amortization as defined above.  During the third quarter of 2009, the Company received $50 million from Inotera pursuant to the terms of a technology transfer agreement.  In connection therewith, the Company reduced its investment in Inotera by $18 million based on its 35.5% share in Inotera.  The technology transfer agreement with Inotera supplanted a technology transfer agreement between the Company and MeiYa.  License fee revenue from the technology transfer agreements is being recognized through the third quarter of 2010.  The Company recognized $15 million and $4 million of revenue in 2009 and 2008, respectively, from the agreements with Inotera and MeiYa.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company had unrecognized license fee revenue of $13 million related to the technology transfer fee.
As of September 3, 2009, the carrying value of the Companys equity investment in Inotera was $229 million and is included in equity method investments in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company had recorded a loss of $3 million to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets for cumulative translation adjustments on its investment in Inotera.  Based on the closing trading price of Inoteras shares in an active market on September 3, 2009, the market value of the Companys shares in Inotera was $694 million.
Summarized financial information for Inotera as of June 30, 2009 and for the period from the Companys initial acquisition of Inotera shares on October 20, 2008 through June 30, 2009 (the period that Inoteras operating results are reflected in the Companys 2009 operating results due to the two-month lag period), is as follows:
As of September 3, 2009, the Companys maximum exposure to loss on its investment in Inotera equaled the $232 million recorded in the Companys consolidated balance sheet for its investment in Inotera including the $3 million loss in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).  The Company may also incur losses in connection with its obligations under the Inotera Supply Agreement to purchase up to 50% of Inoteras wafer production under a long-term pricing arrangement and charges from Inotera for underutilized capacity.
F- 13
On May 1, 2009, Inotera entered into an agreement with Nanya and MeiYa to lease a Nanya wafer fabrication facility that Nanya had previously been leasing to MeiYa.  The initial lease term is from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2018 and Inotera is entitled to renew this lease for an unlimited number of additional five-year terms.  In addition, Inotera has an option to purchase the leased facility for $50 million after December 31, 2023.  Inoteras initial lease obligations to Nanya are $15 million annually for the first nine years.  For the first five-year renewal lease term, Inotera would pay $10 million annually and for each subsequent renewal term, it would pay $2 million annually.  Concurrent with this agreement, Inotera purchased equipment from MeiYa for approximately $78 million.
In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company and Nanya formed MeiYa to manufacture stack DRAM products and sell such products exclusively to the Company and Nanya.  As of September 3, 2009, the ownership of MeiYa was held 50% by Nanya and 50% by the Company.  The carrying value of the Companys equity investment in MeiYa was $42 million and $84 million as of September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008, respectively, and is included in equity method investments in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company had recorded a loss of $6 million to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet for cumulative translation adjustments on its investment in MeiYa.  The Companys results of operations for 2009 include losses of $10 million for its share of MeiYas results of operations for the twelve-month period ended June 30, 2009.  Losses recognized in 2008 were de minimis.
MeiYa
:
 
Pursuant to a technology transfer agreement, the Company received $50 million from MeiYa in the first quarter of 2009.  The technology transfer agreement between the Company and MeiYa was supplanted by a technology transfer agreement between the Company and Inotera and the Company returned the $50 million with accrued interest to MeiYa in the fourth quarter of 2009.
In connection with the purchase of its ownership interest in Inotera, the Company entered into a series of agreements with Nanya pursuant to which both parties ceased future funding of, and resource commitments to, MeiYa.  In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company received a distribution of $27 million from MeiYa. As of September 3, 2009, the Companys maximum exposure to loss on its MeiYa investment equaled the $48 million recorded in the Companys consolidated balance sheet for its investment in MeiYa, including the $6 million loss in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
On July 10, 2009, the Company sold a 65% interest in Aptina, previously a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and a significant component of the Companys All Other segments, to Riverwood Capital (Riverwood) and TPG Capital (TPG).  In connection with the transaction, the Company received approximately $35 million in cash and retained a 35% interest in Aptina.  A portion of the 65% interest held by Riverwood and TPG are convertible preferred shares and have a liquidation preference over the common shares.  As a result, the Companys interest represents 64% of Aptinas common stock.  The Company also retained all cash held by Aptina and its subsidiaries.  The Company recorded a loss of $41 million in connection with the sale.  The carrying values of Aptina assets and liabilities, prior to the effects of the transaction, were as follows:
Aptina:  
Under the equity method, the Company will recognize its share of Aptinas results of operations based on its 64% share of Aptinas common stock on a two-month lag beginning in 2010.  As of September 3, 2009, the Companys investment in Aptina was $44 million.  The Company continues to manufacture products for Aptina under a wafer supply agreement and recognized $70 million of sales and $60 million of cost of goods sold from products sold to Aptina subsequent to July 10, 2009.
 
 
F- 14
As of September 3, 2009, related party payables consisted of amounts due to Inotera under the Inotera Supply Agreement including $51 million for the purchase of trench DRAM products and $32 million for underutilized capacity. (See Equity Method Investments  DRAM joint ventures with Nanya  Inotera note.)
As of September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008, customer advances included $142 million and $129 million, respectively, for the Companys obligation to provide certain NAND Flash memory products to Apple Computer, Inc. (Apple) until December 31, 2010 pursuant to a prepaid NAND Flash supply agreement.  As of September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008, other accounts payable and accrued expenses included $24 million and $16 million, respectively, for amounts due to Intel for NAND Flash product design and process development and licensing fees pursuant to a product designs development agreement.
 
F- 15
 
In May 2007, the Company issued $1.3 billion of 1.875% Convertible Senior Notes due June 1, 2014 (the Convertible Notes).  The issuance costs associated with the Convertible Notes totaled $26 million and the net proceeds to the Company from the offering of the Convertible Notes were $1,274 million.  The initial conversion rate for the Convertible Notes is 70.2679 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $14.23 per share of common stock.  Holders may convert the Convertible Notes prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date for the Convertible Notes only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter beginning after August 30, 2007 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the closing price of the Company's common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is more than 130% of the then applicable conversion price per share of the Convertible Notes; (2) if the Convertible Notes have been called for redemption; (3) if specified distributions to holders of the Company's common stock are made, or specified corporate events occur, as specified in the indenture for the Convertible Notes; (4) during the five business days after any five consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes for each day of that period was less than 98% of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the then applicable conversion rate of the Convertible Notes; or (5) at any time on or after March 1, 2014.  Upon conversion, the Company will have the right to deliver, in lieu of shares of its common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of common stock.  If a holder elects to convert its Convertible Notes in connection with a make-whole change in control, as defined in the indenture, the Company will, in certain circumstances, pay a make-whole premium by increasing the conversion rate for the Convertible Notes converted in connection with such make-whole change in control.  On or after June 6, 2011, the Company may redeem for cash all or part of the Convertible Notes if the last reported sale price of its common stock has been at least 130% of the conversion price then in effect for at least 20 trading days during any 30 consecutive trading day period ending within five trading days prior to the date on which the Company provides notice of redemption.  The redemption price is 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  Upon a change in control or a termination of trading, as defined in the indenture, the holders may require the Company to repurchase for cash all or a portion of their Convertible Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.  In the first quarter of 2010, the Company adopted a new accounting standard for certain convertible debt.  The new standard was applicable to the Convertible Notes and requires the liability and equity components to be stated separately.  (See Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards note.)
In 2008, the Companys joint venture subsidiary, TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. (TECH), drew $600 million under a credit facility at SIBOR plus 2.5%.  The credit facility is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of TECH (approximately $1,498 million as of September 3, 2009) and contains covenants that, among other requirements, establish certain liquidity, debt service coverage and leverage ratios, and restrict TECHs ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and acquire or dispose of assets.  TECH repaid $50 million of principal amounts in 2009 and remaining payments are due in $50 million quarterly installments from September 2009 through May 2012.  Under the terms of the credit facility, TECH held $30 million in restricted cash as of September 3, 2009, which was increased to $60 million in the first quarter of 2010.  In the first quarter of 2010, TECH modified its debt covenants.  In connection with the modification, the Company has guaranteed approximately 85% of the outstanding amount borrowed under TECHs credit facility and the Companys guarantee could increase up to 100% of the outstanding amount borrowed under the facility based on further increases in the Companys ownership interest in TECH and other conditions.
In 2009, the Company recorded $81 million in capital lease obligations with a weighted-average imputed interest rate of 5.9%, payable in periodic installments through February 2023.  In 2008, the Company received $111 million in proceeds from sales-leaseback transactions and in connection with these transactions, recorded capital lease obligations aggregating $110 million with a weighted-average imputed interest rate of 6.7%, payable in periodic installments through June 2012.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company had $46 million of capital lease obligations with covenants that require minimum levels of tangible net worth, cash and investments, and restricted cash of $26 million.  The covenants were modified in the second quarter of 2009, and the Company was in compliance with these debt covenants as of September 3, 2009.
 
F- 16
 
On April 15, 2009, the Company issued $230 million of 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due October 15, 2013 (the 4.25% Senior Notes).  Issuance costs for the 4.25% Senior Notes totaled $7 million.  The initial conversion rate for the 4.25% Senior Notes is 196.7052 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount, equivalent to approximately $5.08 per share of common stock, and is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the indenture for the 4.25% Senior Notes.  Holders of the 4.25% Senior Notes may convert them at any time prior to October 15, 2013.  If there is a change in control, as defined in the indenture, in certain circumstances the Company may pay a make-whole premium by increasing the conversion rate to holders that convert their 4.25% Senior Notes in connection with such make-whole change in control.  The Company may not redeem the 4.25% Senior Notes prior to April 20, 2012.  On or after April 20, 2012, the Company may redeem for cash all or part of the 4.25% Senior Notes if the closing price of its common stock has been at least 135% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days during a 30 consecutive trading day period.  The redemption price will equal 100% of the principal amount plus a make-whole premium equal to the present value of the remaining interest payments from the redemption date to the date of maturity of the 4.25% Senior Notes.  Upon a change in control or a termination of trading, as defined in the indenture, the Company may be required to repurchase for cash all or a portion of the 4.25% Senior Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date.
On February 23, 2009, the Company entered into a Singapore dollar-denominated term loan agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board (EDB) enabling the Company to borrow up to $300 million Singapore dollars at 5.4% per annum.  The terms of the loan agreement required the Company to use the proceeds from any borrowings under the agreement to make equity contributions to its TECH joint venture subsidiary.  The loan agreement also required that TECH use the proceeds from the Companys equity contributions to purchase production assets and meet certain production milestones related to the implementation of advanced process manufacturing.  The loan contains a covenant that limits the amount of indebtedness TECH can incur without approval from the EDB.  The loan is collateralized by the Companys shares in TECH up to a maximum of 66% of TECHs outstanding shares.  The Company drew $150 million Singapore dollars under the facility on February 27, 2009 and an additional $150 million Singapore dollars on June 2, 2009.  The aggregate $300 million Singapore dollars outstanding ($208 million U.S. dollars as of September 3, 2009) is due in February 2012 with interest payable quarterly.
In the first quarter of 2009, in connection with its purchase of its interest in Inotera, the Company entered into a two-year, variable-rate term loan with Nan Ya Plastics, an affiliate of Nanya, and received loan proceeds of $200 million.  Under the terms of the loan agreement, interest is payable quarterly at LIBOR plus 2%.  The interest rate resets quarterly and was 2.4% per annum as of September 3, 2009.  Based on imputed interest rate of 12.1%, the Company recorded the Nan Ya Plastics loan net of a discount of $28 million, which is recognized as interest expense over the life of the loan.  The loan is collateralized by a first priority security interest in the Inotera shares owned by the Company (approximate carrying value of $229 million as of September 3, 2009).  (See Equity Method Investments note.)
In connection with the Companys acquisition of Lexar Media, Inc. (Lexar) in the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company assumed Lexars $70 million 5.625% convertible notes due April 1, 2010 (the Lexar Notes).  The Lexar Notes are convertible into the Companys common stock any time at the option of the holders of the Lexar Notes at a price equal to approximately $11.28 per share and are subject to customary covenants.  The Lexar Notes became redeemable for cash at the Companys option on April 1, 2008 at a price equal to the principal amount plus accrued interest plus the net present value of the remaining scheduled interest payments through April 1, 2010.  The Company may only redeem the Lexar Notes if its common stock has exceeded 175% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days prior to delivery of a notice of redemption.
 
F- 17
 
As of September 3, 2009, maturities of notes payable and future minimum lease payments under capital lease obligations were as follows:
Commitments
As of September 3, 2009, the Company had commitments of approximately $276 million for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.  The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under operating leases.  Total rental expense was $28 million, $39 million and $62 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The Company also subleases certain facilities and buildings under operating leases to Aptina and recognized $1 million of rental income in 2009.  Minimum future rental commitments and minimum future sublease rentals to be received from Aptina under noncancelable subleases are as follows:
Contingencies
The Company has accrued a liability and charged operations for the estimated costs of adjudication or settlement of various asserted and unasserted claims existing as of the balance sheet date, including those described below.  The Company is currently a party to other legal actions arising out of the normal course of business, none of which is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations or financial condition.
In the normal course of business, the Company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party.  It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these types of agreements due to the conditional nature of the Companys obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.  Historically, payments made by the Company under these types of agreements have not had a material effect on the Companys business, results of operations or financial condition.
The Company is involved in the following patent, antitrust and securities matters.
 
F- 18
 
  As is typical in the semiconductor and other high technology industries, from time to time, others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that the Companys products or manufacturing processes infringe their intellectual property rights.  In this regard, the Company is engaged in litigation with Rambus, Inc. (Rambus) relating to certain of Rambus patents and certain of the Companys claims and defenses.  Lawsuits between Rambus and the Company are pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, Germany, France, and Italy.  On January 9, 2009, the Delaware Court entered an opinion in favor of the Company holding that Rambus had engaged in spoliation and that the twelve Rambus patents in the suit were unenforceable against the Company.  Rambus subsequently appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  That appeal is pending.  In the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, trial on a patent phase of the case has been stayed pending resolution of Rambus' appeal of the Delaware spoliation decision or further order of the California Court.
Patent matters:
On March 6, 2009, Panavision Imaging, LLC filed suit against the Company and Aptina Imaging Corporation, then a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (Aptina), in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California.  The complaint alleges that certain of the Company and Aptinas image sensor products infringe four Panavision Imaging U.S. patents and seeks injunctive relief, damages, attorneys fees, and costs.
 On March 24, 2009, Accolade Systems LLC filed suit against the Company and Aptina in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that certain of the Company and Aptinas image sensor products infringe one Accolade Systems U.S. patent.  The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, attorneys fees, and costs.  Accolade Systems never served the complaint, and on October 15, 2009, filed a motion to dismiss the complaint against the Company and Aptina without prejudice.
Among other things, the above lawsuits pertain to certain of the Companys SDRAM, DDR SDRAM, DDR2 SDRAM, DDR3 SDRAM, RLDRAM and image sensor products, which account for a significant portion of net sales.
The Company is unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against the Company and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss.  A court determination that the Companys products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require the Company to make material changes to its products and/or manufacturing processes.  Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations or financial condition.
At least sixty-eight purported class action price-fixing lawsuits have been filed against the Company and other DRAM suppliers in various federal and state courts in the United States and in Puerto Rico on behalf of indirect purchasers alleging price-fixing in violation of federal and state antitrust laws, violations of state unfair competition law, and/or unjust enrichment relating to the sale and pricing of DRAM products during the period from April 1999 through at least June 2002.  The complaints seek joint and several damages, trebled, in addition to restitution, costs and attorneys fees.  A number of these cases have been removed to federal court and transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California for consolidated pre-trial proceedings.  On January 29, 2008, the Northern District of California court granted in part and denied in part the Companys motion to dismiss plaintiffs second amended consolidated complaint.  Plaintiffs subsequently filed a motion seeking certification for interlocutory appeal of the decision.  On February 27, 2008, plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint.  On June 26, 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit agreed to consider plaintiffs interlocutory appeal.
Antitrust matters:  
 
F- 19
 
In addition, various states, through their Attorneys General, have filed suit against the Company and other DRAM manufacturers.  On July 14, 2006, and on September 8, 2006 in an amended complaint, the following Attorneys General filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California:  Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.  Thereafter, three states, Ohio, New Hampshire, and Texas, voluntarily dismissed their claims.  The remaining states filed a third amended complaint on October 1, 2007.  Alaska, Delaware, Kentucky, and Vermont subsequently voluntarily dismissed their claims.  The amended complaint alleges, among other things, violations of the Sherman Act, Cartwright Act, and certain other states consumer protection and antitrust laws and seeks joint and several damages, trebled, as well as injunctive and other relief.  Additionally, on July 13, 2006, the State of New York filed a similar suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.  That case was subsequently transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California for pre-trial purposes.  The State of New York filed an amended complaint on October 1, 2007.  On October 3, 2008, the California Attorney General filed a similar lawsuit in California Superior Court, purportedly on behalf of local California government entities, alleging, among other things, violations of the Cartwright Act and state unfair competition law.
Three purported class action DRAM lawsuits also have been filed against the Company in Quebec, Ontario, and British Columbia, Canada, on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers, alleging violations of the Canadian Competition Act.  The substantive allegations in these cases are similar to those asserted in the DRAM antitrust cases filed in the United States.  Plaintiffs motion for class certification was denied in the British Columbia and Quebec cases in May and June 2008, respectively.  Plaintiffs subsequently filed an appeal of each of those decisions.  Those appeals are pending.
In February and March 2007, All American Semiconductor, Inc., Jaco Electronics, Inc., and the DRAM Claims Liquidation Trust each filed suit against the Company and other DRAM suppliers in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California after opting-out of a direct purchaser class action suit that was settled.  The complaints allege, among other things, violations of federal and state antitrust and competition laws in the DRAM industry, and seek joint and several damages, trebled, as well as restitution, attorneys fees, costs and injunctive relief.
Three purported class action lawsuits alleging price-fixing of SRAM products have been filed in Canada, asserting violations of the Canadian Competition Act.  These cases assert claims on behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities that purchased SRAM products directly or indirectly from various SRAM suppliers.
In addition, three purported class action lawsuits alleging price-fixing of Flash products have been filed in Canada, asserting violations of the Canadian Competition Act.  These cases assert claims on behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities that purchased Flash memory directly and indirectly from various Flash memory suppliers.
On May 5, 2004, Rambus filed a complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California (San Francisco County) against the Company and other DRAM suppliers.  The complaint alleges various causes of action under California state law including conspiracy to restrict output and fix prices of Rambus DRAM (RDRAM) and unfair competition.  Trial is currently scheduled to begin in January 2010.  The complaint seeks joint and several damages, trebled, punitive damages, attorneys fees, costs, and a permanent injunction enjoining the defendants from the conduct alleged in the complaint.
The Company is unable to predict the outcome of these lawsuits and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss.  The final resolution of these alleged violations of antitrust laws could result in significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations or financial condition.
  On February 24, 2006, a putative class action complaint was filed against the Company and certain of its officers in the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho alleging claims under Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder.  Four substantially similar complaints subsequently were filed in the same Court.  The cases purport to be brought on behalf of a class of purchasers of the Companys stock during the period February 24, 2001 to February 13, 2003.  The five lawsuits have been consolidated and a consolidated amended class action complaint was filed on July 24, 2006.  The complaint generally alleges violations of federal securities laws based on, among other things, claimed misstatements or omissions regarding alleged illegal price-fixing conduct.  The complaint seeks unspecified damages, interest, attorneys fees, costs, and expenses.  On December 19, 2007, the Court issued an order certifying the class but reducing the class period to purchasers of the Companys stock during the period from February 24, 2001 to September 18, 2002.
Securities matters:
F- 20
In addition, on March 23, 2006, a shareholder derivative action was filed in the Fourth District Court for the State of Idaho (Ada County), allegedly on behalf of and for the benefit of the Company, against certain of the Companys current and former officers and directors.  The Company also was named as a nominal defendant.  An amended complaint was filed on August 23, 2006 and subsequently dismissed by the Court.  Another amended complaint was filed on September 6, 2007.  The amended complaint was based on the same allegations of fact as in the securities class actions filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho and alleged breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, and insider trading.  The amended complaint sought unspecified damages, restitution, disgorgement of profits, equitable and injunctive relief, attorneys fees, costs, and expenses.  The amended complaint was derivative in nature and did not seek monetary damages from the Company.  On January 25, 2008, the Court granted the Companys motion to dismiss the second amended complaint without leave to amend.  On March 10, 2008, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the Idaho Supreme Court.  On July 16, 2009, the Idaho Supreme Court issued an opinion upholding the lower courts dismissal of the complaint.
The Company is unable to predict the outcome of these cases and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss.  A court determination in any of these actions against the Company could result in significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations or financial condition.
Shareholders Equity
  As of September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008, Intel held stock rights exchangeable into approximately 3.9 million and 16.9 million shares, respectively, of the Companys common stock.  Shares issuable pursuant to the stock rights are included in weighted-average common shares outstanding in the computations of earnings per share.
Stock rights:
On April 15, 2009, the Company issued 69.3 million shares of common stock for $4.15 per share in a public offering.  The Company received net proceeds of $276 million, net of underwriting fees and other offering costs of $12 million.
Issuance of common stock:
 
In connection with the offering of the Convertible Notes in May 2007, the Company entered into three capped call transactions (the Capped Calls).  The Capped Calls each have an initial strike price of approximately $14.23 per share, subject to certain adjustments, which matches the initial conversion price of the Convertible Notes.  The Capped Calls are in three equal tranches, have cap prices of $17.25, $20.13 and $23.00 per share, and cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments similar to those contained in the Convertible Notes, an approximate combined total of 91.3 million shares of common stock.  The Capped Calls expire on various dates between November 2011 and December 2012.  The Capped Calls are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Convertible Notes.  Settlement of the Capped Calls in cash on their respective expiration dates would result in the Company receiving an amount ranging from zero if the market price per share of the Companys common stock is at or below $14.23 to a maximum of $538 million.  The Company paid $151 million to purchase the Capped Calls.  The Capped Calls are considered capital transactions and the related cost was recorded as a charge to additional capital.
Capped call transactions:  
Concurrent with the offering of the 4.25% Senior Notes on April 15, 2009, the Company entered into capped call transactions (the 2009 Capped Calls) that have an initial strike price of approximately $5.08 per share, subject to certain adjustments, which was set to equal initial conversion price of the 4.25% Senior Notes.  The 2009 Capped Calls have a cap price of $6.64 per share and cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments similar to those contained in the 4.25% Senior Notes,  an approximate combined total of 45.2 million shares of common stock, and are subject to standard adjustments for instruments of this type.  The 2009 Capped Calls expire in October and November of 2012.  The 2009 Capped Calls are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the 4.25% Senior Notes.  Settlement of the Capped Calls in cash on their respective expiration dates would result in the Company receiving an amount ranging from zero if the market price per share of the Companys common stock is at or below $5.08 to a maximum of $70 million.  The Company paid $25 million to purchase the 2009 Capped Calls.  The 2009 Capped Calls are considered capital transactions and the related cost was recorded as a charge to additional capital.
 
F- 21
 
  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, consisted of the following as of the end of the periods shown below:
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):
Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards
Effective at the beginning of 2010, the Company adopted new accounting standards for noncontrolling interests and certain convertible debt instruments.  These new accounting standards required retrospective application and the Companys financial statements contained herein have been adjusted to reflect the impact of adopting these new accounting standards.  The impact of the retrospective adoption is summarized below.
  Under the new standard, noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries is (1) reported as a separate component of equity in the consolidated balance sheets and  (2) included in net income in the statement of operations.
Noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries:
  The new standard applies to convertible debt instruments that may be fully or partially settled in cash upon conversion and is applicable to the Companys 1.875% convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.3 billion issued in May 2007 (the Convertible Notes).  The standard requires the liability and equity components of the Convertible Notes to be stated separately.  The liability component recognized at the issuance of the Convertible Notes equals the estimated fair value of a similar liability without a conversion option and the remainder of the proceeds received at issuance was allocated to equity.  In connection therewith, at the May 2007 issuance of the Convertible Notes there was a $402 million decrease in debt, a $394 million increase in additional capital, and an $8 million decrease in deferred debt issuance costs (included in other noncurrent assets).  The fair value of the liability was determined using an interest rate for similar nonconvertible debt issued as of the original May 2007 issuance date by entities with credit ratings comparable to the Companys credit rating at the time of issuance.  In subsequent periods, the liability component recognized at issuance is increased to the principal amount of the Convertible Notes through the amortization of interest costs. Through 2009, $107 million of interest was amortized.  Information related to equity and debt components is as follows:
Convertible debt instruments:
The unamortized discount as of September 3, 2009, will be recognized as interest expense over approximately 4.7 years through June 2014, the maturity date of the Convertible Notes.
Information related to interest rates and expenses is as follows:
 
 
F- 22
  The following tables set forth the financial statement line items affected by retrospective application of the new accounting standards for noncontrolling interests and certain convertible debt as of and for the periods indicated:
Effect of adjustment for retrospective application of new accounting standards on financial statements:
 
F- 23
 
 
F- 24
 
 
 
 
F- 25
Fair Value Measurements
SFAS No. 157 establishes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (referred to as Level 1), observable inputs other than Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly (referred to as Level 2) and unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of fair value of assets or liabilities (referred to as Level 3).
Assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of September 3, 2009 were as follows:
Fair value measurements on a recurring basis:
Level 2 assets are valued using observable inputs in active markets for similar assets or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs.  In 2009, the Company recognized impairment charges of $7 million for other-than-temporary declines in the value of marketable equity instruments.
 
F- 26
 
As of September 3, 2009, the estimated fair value of the Companys convertible debt instruments was $1,410 million compared to their carrying value of $1,305 million in debt (the carrying value excludes the equity component of the Convertible Notes which is classified in equity).  As of August 28, 2008, the estimated fair value of the Companys convertible debt instruments was $844 million compared to their carrying value of $1,025 million in debt (the carrying value excludes the equity component of the Convertible Notes which is classified in equity).  The fair value of the convertible debt instruments is based on quoted market prices in active markets (Level 1).  As of September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008, the fair value of other long-term debt instruments was $1,458 million and $1,323 million, respectively, as compared to their carrying value of $1,498 million and $1,356 million, respectively.  The fair value of other long-term debt instruments was estimated based on discounted cash flows using inputs that are observable in the market or that could be derived from or corroborated with observable market data, as well as significant unobservable inputs (level 3), including interest rates based on yield curves of similar debt issues from parties with similar credit ratings as the Company.
Amounts reported as cash and equivalents, short-term investments, receivables, other assets, accounts payable and accrued expenses and equipment purchase contracts approximate their fair values.
In the first quarter of 2010, the Company determined the fair value of the liability component of its Convertible Notes using a market interest rate for similar nonconvertible debt issued as of the original issuance date by entities with credit ratings comparable to the Companys (Level 2).  The fair value of the liability component was retrospectively applied as of the inception date of the Convertible Notes.  (See Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards note.)
Fair value measurements on a nonrecurring basis:
As of September 3, 2009, non-marketable equity investments of $6 million were valued using Level 3 inputs.  During 2009, the Company identified events and circumstances that indicated the fair value of certain non-marketable equity investments sustained other-than-temporary declines in values and recognized charges of $8 million to write down the carrying values of these investments to their estimated fair values.  The fair value measurements were determined using present value techniques of estimated future cash flows based on inputs which were classified as Level 3 as they were unobservable and required managements judgment.
During 2009, the Company recorded loans with Nan Ya Plastics and Inotera at fair value because the stated interest rates were substantially lower than the prevailing rates for loans with comparable terms and collateral and for borrowers with similar credit ratings.  The Company repaid the loan to Inotera in the third quarter of 2009.  During 2009, the Company also recorded other noncurrent contractual liabilities at fair values of $36 million (net of $39 million of discounts) based on prevailing rates for comparable obligations.  The fair values of these obligations were determined based on discounted cash flows using inputs that are observable in the market or that could be derived from or corroborated with observable market data, as well as significant unobservable inputs (Level 3), including interest rates based on published rates for transactions involving parties with similar credit ratings as the Company.  (See Debt note.)
Equity Plans
As of September 3, 2009, under its equity plans, the Company had an aggregate of 195.1 million shares of its common stock reserved for issuance for stock options and restricted stock awards, of which 125.9 million shares were subject to outstanding awards and 69.2 million shares were available for future awards.  Awards are subject to terms and conditions as determined by the Companys Board of Directors.
  Stock options granted by the Company are generally exercisable in increments of 25% per year beginning one year from the date of grant.  Stock options issued after September 22, 2004 generally expire six years from the date of grant.  All other options expire ten years from the grant date.
Stock options:
 
F- 27
 
Option activity for 2009 is summarized as follows:
 
The following table summarizes information about options outstanding as of September 3, 2009:
 
The weighted-average grant-date fair value per share was $1.71, $2.52 and $4.87 for options granted during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The total intrinsic value was de minimis, $1 million and $32 million for options exercised during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Changes in the Companys nonvested options for 2009 are summarized as follows:
 
As of September 3, 2009, $43 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested awards was expected to be recognized through the fourth quarter of 2013, resulting in a weighted-average period of 1.3 years.  The Companys nonvested options as of September 3, 2009 have a weighted-average exercise price of $4.98, a weighted-average remaining contractual life of 4.77 years and an aggregate intrinsic value of $93 million.
 
 
F- 28
The fair values of option awards were estimated as of the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model.  The Black-Scholes model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable and requires the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility and estimated option life.  The expected volatilities utilized by the Company were based on implied volatilities from traded options on the Companys stock and on historical volatility.  The expected lives of options granted in 2009 were based, in part, on historical experience and on the terms and conditions of the options.  The expected lives of options granted prior to 2009 were based on the simplified method provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The risk-free interest rates utilized by the Company were based on the U.S. Treasury yield in effect at the time of the grant.  No dividends were assumed in the Companys estimated option values.  Assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model are presented below:
  As of September 3, 2009, there were 9.4 million shares of Restricted Stock Awards outstanding, of which 4.0 million were performance-based Restricted Stock Awards.  For service-based Restricted Stock Awards, restrictions generally lapse either in one-fourth or one-third increments during each year of employment after the grant date.  For performance-based Restricted Stock Awards, vesting is contingent upon meeting certain Company-wide performance goals, none of which were achieved or deemed probable to achieve as of September 3, 2009.  Restricted Stock Awards activity for 2009 is summarized as follows:
Restricted stock and restricted stock units (Restricted Stock Awards):
 
 
The weighted-average grant-date fair value for restricted stock awards granted during 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $4.40, $8.41 and $14.91 per share, respectively.  The aggregate value at the lapse date of awards for which restrictions lapsed during 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $8 million, $12 million and $11 million, respectively.  As of September 3, 2009, there was $28 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to nonvested restricted stock awards, which is expected to be recognized through the second quarter of 2013, resulting in a weighted-average period of 1.0 years.
The Companys 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) plan was suspended during 2008 and expired during 2009.
Stock purchase plan:
 
F- 29
 
  Total compensation costs for the Companys equity plans were as follows:
Stock-based compensation expense:
Stock-based compensation expense of $3 million was capitalized and remained in inventory as of September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008.  As of September 3, 2009, $71 million of total unrecognized compensation costs, net of estimated forfeitures, related to non-vested awards was expected to be recognized through the fourth quarter of 2013, resulting in a weighted-average period of 1.2 years.  Stock-based compensation expense in the above presentation does not reflect any significant income tax benefits, which is consistent with the Companys treatment of income or loss from its U.S. operations.  (See Income Taxes note.)
Employee Benefit Plans
The Company has employee retirement plans at its U.S. and international sites.  Details of the more significant plans are discussed as follows:
  The Company has a 401(k) retirement plan (RAM Plan) under which U.S. employees may contribute up to 45% of their eligible pay (subject to IRS annual contribution limits) to various savings alternatives, none of which include direct investment in the Companys common stock.  Under the RAM plan, the Company matched in cash eligible contributions from employees up to 4% of the employees annual eligible earnings or $2,000, whichever was greater.  In 2009, the Company suspended its match under in the RAM plan.  Contribution expense for the Companys RAM Plan was $16 million, $32 million and $31 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Employee savings plan for U.S. employees:
  The Company has pension plans in various countries worldwide.  The pension plans are only available to local employees and are generally government mandated.  Upon adoption of FAS 158 as of August 30, 2007, the Company increased its liability by $8 million related to the unfunded pension liabilities of the plans.
Retirement plans
:
Restructure
In response to a severe downturn in the semiconductor memory industry and global economic conditions, the Company initiated restructure plans in 2009 primarily within the Companys Memory segment.  In the first quarter of 2009, IM Flash, a joint venture between the Company and Intel, terminated its agreement with the Company to obtain NAND Flash memory supply from the Companys Boise facility, reducing the Companys NAND Flash production by approximately 35,000 200mm wafers per month.  In connection with the termination of the NAND Flash memory supply agreement, Intel paid the Company $208 million in 2009.  The Company and Intel agreed to suspend tooling and the ramp of NAND Flash production at IM Flashs Singapore wafer fabrication facility.  In addition, the Company phased out all remaining 200mm DRAM wafer manufacturing operations in Boise, Idaho in the second half of 2009.  As a result of these restructure plans, the Company reduced employment in 2009 by approximately 4,600 employees, or approximately 20%.  Due to improvements in market conditions and the pursuit of new business opportunities, future reduction in employees may not occur.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company expects to incur additional restructure costs in 2010 of approximately $2 million, excluding any gains or additional losses from disposition of equipment.  In 2008 and 2007, to reduce costs, the Company implemented restructure initiatives including workforce reductions and relocating and outsourcing certain of its operations.  The following table summarizes restructure charges (credits) resulting from the Companys restructure activities:
 
F- 30
 
During 2009 the Company made cash payments of $63 million for severance and other termination benefits.  Substantially all of the charges in 2008 and 2007 were paid in those years.  As of September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008, $5 million and $6 million, respectively, of restructure costs, primarily related to severance and other termination benefits, remained unpaid and were included in accounts payable and accrued expenses.
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
Other operating (income) expense consisted of the following:
In the table above, Other for 2008 included $38 million for receipts from the U.S. government in connection with anti-dumping tariffs and for 2007, included $30 million from the sale of certain intellectual property to Toshiba Corporation and $7 million in grants received in connection with the Companys operations in China.  (See Equity Method Investments  Aptina note.)
Income Taxes
The Companys loss before taxes, noncontrolling interests in net (income) loss and equity in net losses of equity method investees has been adjusted to reflect the retrospective application of new accounting standards for noncontrolling interest and certain convertible debt instruments.  Additionally, the Companys reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to its income tax (provision), valuation allowance and deferred tax liabilities have also been adjusted to reflect the application of these standards.
 
F- 31
 
The Companys income tax (provision) and loss before taxes, noncontrolling interests in net (income) loss and equity in net losses of equity method investees consisted of the following:
The Companys income tax (provision) computed using the U.S. federal statutory rate reconciled to the Companys income tax (provision) follows:
State taxes reflect investment tax credits of $7 million, $12 million and $10 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the bases of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and income tax purposes.  The Companys deferred tax assets and liabilities consist of the following as of the end of the periods shown below:
 
F- 32
 
The Company has a valuation allowance against substantially all of its U.S. net deferred tax assets.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company had aggregate U.S. tax net operating loss carryforwards of $4.2 billion and unused U.S. tax credit carryforwards of $212 million.  The Company also has unused state tax net operating loss carryforwards of $2.6 billion and unused state tax credits of $198 million as of September 3, 2009.  Substantially all of the net operating loss carryforwards expire in 2022 to 2029 and substantially all of the tax credit carryforwards expire in 2013 to 2029.  As a consequence of prior business acquisitions, utilization of the tax benefits for some of the tax carryforwards is subject to limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and some portion or all of these carryforwards may not be available to offset any future taxable income.
The changes in valuation allowance of $566 million and $442 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, are primarily due to uncertainties of realizing certain U.S. net operating losses and certain tax credit carryforwards.
Provision has been made for deferred taxes on undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries to the extent that dividend payments from such companies are expected to result in additional tax liability.  During 2008 a decision was made to not be indefinitely reinvested in certain foreign jurisdictions.  For the year ended August 28, 2008, $322 million of earnings that in prior years had been considered indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations were determined to no longer be indefinitely reinvested.  This decision resulted in no impact to the consolidated statement of operations as the Company has a full valuation allowance against its net U.S. deferred tax assets.  Remaining undistributed earnings of $410 million as of September 3, 2009 have been indefinitely reinvested; therefore, no provision has been made for taxes due upon remittance of these earnings.  Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability on these unremitted earnings is not practicable.
 
F- 33
 
Below is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits:
The balance at September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008 represents unrecognized income tax benefits, which if recognized, would affect the Companys effective tax rate.  As of September 3, 2009, accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions was $2 million.
The Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns with the United States federal government, various U.S. states and various foreign jurisdictions throughout the world.  The Companys U.S. federal and state tax returns remain open to examination for 2005 through 2009 and 2004 through 2009, respectively.  In addition, tax years open to examination in multiple foreign taxing jurisdictions range from 2002 to 2009.  The Company is currently undergoing audits in foreign jurisdictions for years 2005 through 2009.
Earnings Per Share
Listed below are the potential common shares, as of the end of the periods shown below, that could dilute basic earnings per share in the future that were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because to do so would have been antidilutive:
Consolidated Variable Interest Entities
  The Company has formed two joint ventures with Intel (IM Flash Technologies, LLC formed January 2006 and IM Flash Singapore LLP formed February 2007) to manufacture NAND Flash memory products for the exclusive benefit of the partners.  IMFT and IMFS are each governed by a Board of Managers, with Micron and Intel initially appointing an equal number of managers to each of the boards.  The number of managers appointed by each party adjusts depending on the parties ownership interests.  These ventures will operate until 2016 but are subject to prior termination under certain terms and conditions.  IMFT and IMFS are aggregated as IM Flash in the following disclosure due to the similarity of their ownership structure, function, operations and the way the Companys management reviews the results of their operations.  At inception and through September 3, 2009, the Company owned 51% and Intel owned 49% of IM Flash.
NAND Flash joint ventures with Intel (IM Flash):
 
F- 34
 
IM Flash is a variable interest entity as defined by FIN 46(R) because all costs of IM Flash are passed to the Company and Intel through product purchase agreements.  IM Flash is dependent upon the Company and Intel for any additional cash requirements.  The Company and Intel are also considered related parties under the provisions of FIN 46(R) due to restrictions on transfers of ownership interests.  As a result, the primary beneficiary of IM Flash is the entity that is most closely associated with IM Flash.  The Company considered several factors to determine whether it or Intel is more closely associated with IM Flash, including the size and nature of IM Flashs operations relative to the Company and Intel, and which entity had the majority of economic exposure under the purchase agreements.  Based on those factors, the Company determined that it is more closely associated with IM Flash and is therefore the primary beneficiary.  Accordingly, the financial results of IM Flash are included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and all amounts pertaining to Intels interests in IM Flash are reported as noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries.  (See Significant Accounting Policies note.)
IM Flash manufactures NAND Flash memory products using designs developed by the Company and Intel.  Product design and other research and development (R&D) costs for NAND Flash are generally shared equally between the Company and Intel.  As a result of reimbursements received from Intel under a NAND Flash R&D cost-sharing arrangement, the Companys R&D expenses were reduced by $107 million, $148 million and $240 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
IM Flash sells products to the joint venture partners generally in proportion to their ownership at long-term negotiated prices approximating cost.  IM Flash sales to Intel were $886 million, $1,037 million and $497 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  As of September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008, IM Flash had receivables from Intel primarily for sales of NAND Flash products of $95 million and $144 million, respectively.  In addition, as of September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008, the Company had receivables from Intel of $29 million and $71 million, respectively, related to NAND Flash product design and process development activities.  As of September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008, IM Flash had payables to Intel of $3 million and $4 million, respectively, for various services.
Under the terms of a wafer supply agreement, the Company manufactured wafers for IM Flash in its Boise, Idaho facility.  In the first quarter of 2009, the Company and Intel agreed to discontinue production of NAND flash memory for IM Flash at the Boise facility.  Pursuant to the termination agreement, Intel paid the Company $208 million in 2009.  Also in the first quarter of 2009, IM Flash substantially completed construction of a new 300mm wafer fabrication facility structure in Singapore and the Company and Intel agreed to suspend tooling and the ramp of production at this facility.
IM Flash distributed $695 million and $132 million to Intel in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $723 million and $137 million to the Company in 2009 and 2008, respectively.  Intel contributed $24 million, $393 million and $1,238 million to IM Flash in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The Company contributed $25 million and $409 million and $1,017 million to IM Flash in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Intels contributions in 2007 included $261 million as part of its initial obligations from the formation of IM Flash in January 2006.  The Companys ability to access IM Flashs cash and marketable investment securities ($114 million as of September 3, 2009) to finance the Companys other operations is subject to agreement by the joint venture partners.
 
F- 35
 
Total IM Flash assets and liabilities included in the Companys consolidated balance sheets are as follows:
The creditors of IM Flash have recourse only to the assets of IM Flash and do not have recourse to any other assets of the Company.
  In 2006, the Company formed a joint venture, MP Mask, with Photronics, Inc. (Photronics) to produce photomasks for leading-edge and advanced next generation semiconductors.  At inception and through September 3, 2009, the Company owned 50.01% and Photronics owned 49.99% of MP Mask.  The Company purchases a substantial majority of the reticles produced by MP Mask pursuant to a supply arrangement.  In connection with the formation of the joint venture, the Company received $72 million in 2006 in exchange for entering into a license agreement with Photronics, which is being recognized over the term of the 10-year agreement.  As of September 3, 2009, deferred income and other noncurrent liabilities included an aggregate of $48 million related to this agreement.  MP Mask made distributions to both the Company and Photronics of $10 million each in 2009.  Photronics contributed $8 million and $11 million to MP Mask in 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The Company contributed $4 million to MP Mask in 2007.
MP Mask Technology Center, LLC (MP Mask):
MP Mask is a variable interest entity as defined by FIN 46(R) because all costs of MP Mask are passed on to the Company and Photronics through  product purchase agreements and MP Mask is dependent upon the Company and Photronics for any additional cash requirements.  The Company and Photronics are also considered related parties under the provisions of FIN 46(R) due to restrictions on transfers of ownership interests.  As a result, the primary beneficiary of MP Mask is the entity that is more closely associated with MP Mask.  The Company considered several factors to determine whether it or Photronics is more closely associated with the joint venture.  The most important factor was the nature of the joint ventures operations relative to the Company and Photronics.  Based on those factors, the Company determined that it is more closely associated with the joint venture and therefore is the primary beneficiary.  Accordingly, the financial results of MP Mask are included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and all amounts pertaining to Photonics interest in MP Mask are reported as noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries.
 
F- 36
 
Total MP Mask assets and liabilities included in the Companys consolidated balance sheets are as follows:
The creditors of MP Mask have recourse only to the assets of MP Mask and do not have recourse to any other assets of the Company.
In 2008, the Company completed the construction of a facility to produce photomasks and sold the facility to Photronics under a build to suit lease agreement, with quarterly payments through January 2013.  On May 19, 2009, the Company and Photronics entered into an agreement whereby the Company repurchased the facility from Photronics for $50 million and leased the facility to Photronics under an operating lease providing for quarterly lease payments aggregating $41 million through October 2014.
TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd.
Since 1998, the Company has participated in TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. (TECH), a semiconductor memory manufacturing joint venture in Singapore among the Company, Canon Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Company (HP).
The financial results of TECH are included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and all amounts pertaining to Canon Inc. and HP are reported as noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries.  The Company began consolidating TECHs financial results in 2006.
The shareholders agreement for the TECH joint venture expires in April 2011, but automatically extends for 10 years unless one or more of the shareholders provides a non-extension notification.  In the first quarter of 2010, TECH received a notice from HP that it does not intend to extend the TECH joint venture beyond April 2011.  The Company is working with HP and Canon to reach a resolution of the matter.  The parties inability to reach a resolution of this matter prior to April 2011 could result in the dissolution of TECH.
In the second quarter of 2009, the Company entered into a term loan agreement with the EDB that enabled the Company to borrow up to $300 million Singapore dollars at 5.4%.  The Company was required to use the proceeds from any borrowings under the facility to make equity contributions to TECH.  On February 27, 2009, the Company drew $150 million Singapore dollars under the facility and used the proceeds to purchase shares of TECH for $99 million.  On June 2, 2009, the Company drew the remaining $150 million Singapore dollars under the facility and purchased additional shares of TECH for $99 million.  Additionally, on August 27, 2009, the Company purchased shares of TECH for $60 million.  As a result, the Companys interest in TECH increased from approximately 73% as of August 28, 2008 to approximately 85% in August 2009.  As a result of these share purchases, the Company reduced noncontrolling interests by $87 million during 2009.  Because the cost of the noncontrolling interest acquired was below carrying value, the Companys carrying value for TECHs property, plant and equipment was also reduced $87 million.  (See Debt note.)
In March 2007, the Company acquired all of the shares of TECH common stock held by the Singapore Economic Development Board for approximately $290 million, increasing the Companys ownership interest in TECH from 43% to 73%.
 
F- 37
 
TECHs cash and marketable investment securities ($188 million as of September 3, 2009) are not anticipated to be available to pay dividends of the Company or finance its other operations.  As of September 3, 2009, TECH had $548 million outstanding under a credit facility which is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of TECH (carrying value of approximately $1,498 million as of September 3, 2009) and contains covenants that, among other requirements, establish certain liquidity, debt service coverage and leverage ratios, and restrict TECHs ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and acquire or dispose of assets.  As of September 3, 2009, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.  In the first quarter of 2010, TECH modified its debt covenants.  In connection with the modification, the Company has guaranteed approximately 85% of the outstanding amount borrowed under TECHs credit facility and the Companys guarantee could increase up to 100% of the outstanding amount borrowed under the facility based on further increases in the Companys ownership interest in TECH and other conditions.  (See Debt note.)
Acquisition of Avago Technologies Limited Image Sensor Business (Avago)
On December 11, 2006, the Company acquired the CMOS image sensor business of Avago.  The acquisition provided the Company with an experienced imaging team, select imaging products and intellectual property relating to Avagos image sensor business.  The Company acquired Avago for $63 million in cash.  The Company recorded total assets of $64 million (including intangible assets of $17 million and goodwill of $46 million) and total liabilities of $1 million.  The acquired goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.  The Companys results of operations subsequent to the acquisition date include the CMOS image sensor business acquired from Avago which is included in All Other segments.  Mercedes Johnson, a member of the Companys Board of Directors, was the Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Avago at the time of the transaction.  Ms. Johnson recused herself from all deliberations of the Companys Board of Directors concerning this transaction.
Segment Information
In 2009, the Company had two reportable segments, Memory and Imaging.  In the first quarter of 2010, Imaging no longer met the quantitative thresholds of a reportable segment and management does not expect that Imaging will meet the quantitative thresholds in future years.  As a result, Imaging was no longer considered a reportable segment and was included in the Companys All Other nonreportable segments.  All amounts have been recast to reflect Imaging in All Other.  The Memory segments primary products are DRAM and NAND Flash memory.  Operating results of All Other primarily reflect activity of Imaging and also include activity of the Companys microdisplay and other operations.  Subsequent to the sale of a 65% interest in Aptina on July 10, 2009, the Company continues to manufacture products for Aptina under a wafer supply agreement and also provides services to Aptina.  The results of this continuing Imaging activity are reflected in All Other.  Segment information reported below is consistent with how it is reviewed and evaluated by the Companys chief operating decision makers and is based on the nature of the Companys operations and products offered to customers.  The Company does not identify or report depreciation and amortization, capital expenditures or assets by segment.  (See Equity Method Investments  Aptina note.)
 
F- 38
 
Certain Concentrations
Approximately 30% of the Companys net sales for 2009 were to the computing market, including desktop PCs, servers, notebooks and workstations.  Sales to Intel were 20% of the Companys net sales in 2009 and were included in the Memory segment.  Sales of DRAM, NAND Flash and CMOS image sensor products constituted 50%, 39% and 11%, respectively, of the Companys net sales for 2009.  Certain components used by the Company in manufacturing semiconductor products are available from a limited number of suppliers.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash, investment securities and trade receivables.  The Company invests through high-credit-quality financial institutions and, by policy, generally limits the concentration of credit exposure by restricting investments with any single obligor.  A concentration of credit risk may exist with respect to receivables as a substantial portion of the Companys customers are affiliated with the computing industry.  The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of customers worldwide and generally does not require collateral from its customers.  Historically, the Company has not experienced significant losses on receivables.  The Companys Capped Call instruments expose the Company to credit risk to the extent that the counter parties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement.  The Company seeks to mitigate such risk by limiting its counter parties to major financial institutions and by spreading the risk across several major financial institutions.  In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counter party resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.  (See Shareholders Equity  Capped call transactions note.)
Geographic Information
Geographic net sales based on customer ship-to location were as follows:
Net property, plant and equipment by geographic area were as follows:
 
F- 39
 
The following adjustments have been applied to the tables above to reflect the retrospective application of new accounting standards for noncontrolling interests and certain convertible debt instruments.  (See Adjustments for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards note.)
The results of operations for the second quarters of 2009 and 2008 included charges of $58 million and $463 million, respectively, to write off all the goodwill associated with the Companys All Other and Memory segments, respectively.
F- 40
The Companys results of operations for the second and first quarters of 2009 included charges of $234 million and $369 million, respectively, to write down the carrying value of work in process and finished goods inventories of memory products (both DRAM and NAND Flash) to their estimated market values.  The Companys results of operations for the fourth, second and first quarters of 2008 included charges of $205 million, $15 million and $62 million, respectively, to write down the carrying value of work in process and finished goods inventories of memory products to their estimated market values.  As charges to write down inventories are recorded in advance of when inventories are sold, gross margins in subsequent periods are higher than they otherwise would be.
In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company sold a 65% interest in its Aptina business.  In connection therewith, in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company recorded a charge of $53 million for the sale and in the fourth quarter, recorded a credit of $12 million to adjust the estimated loss to the final loss of $41 million.
In the fourth quarter of 2008, costs of goods sold benefited by $70 million due to settlements of pricing adjustments with certain suppliers.
 
F- 41
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
of Micron Technology, Inc.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index appearing under Item 8 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Micron Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries at September 3, 2009 and August 28, 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 3, 2009 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index appearing under Item 8 presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 3, 2009, based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting (not presented herein) appearing under Item 9A of the Company's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
As discussed in the Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards note to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for certain convertible debt instruments and the manner in which it accounts for noncontrolling interests effective September 4, 2009.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Jose, California
October 28, 2009, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to the effects of the change in accounting for convertible debt instruments and noncontrolling interests discussed in the Adjustment for Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards note, as to which the date is March 4, 2010.
 
F- 42
 
 
F- 43
 


