FILE:MU/MU-8K-20100513154734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01                      Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On May 7, 2010, in connection with the consummation of the Share Purchase (as defined and described in Item 2.01 below), Micron Technology, Inc. (), Intel Corporation (), Intel Technology Asia Pte Ltd (), STMicroelectronics N.V. (), Redwood Blocker S.a.r.l. () and PK Flash, LLC (, and collectively with Intel, ITA, ST and Redwood, the ), entered into a stockholder rights and restrictions agreement (the ) pursuant to which, among other things, Micron may be required under certain conditions to prepare and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement covering the resale of Micron Shares (as defined in Item 2.01 below), subject to certain customary rights enabling Micron to postpone the filing of the registration statement and suspend the effectiveness of such registration for certain periods and subject to customary cross-indemnification and expense provisions.  Pursuant to the SHRRA, Micron has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to file a registration statement on Form S-3 (a ) to effect the registration under the Securities Act of any Micron Shares held by any Seller who, as a result of being considered an affiliate of Micron for purposes of Rule 144 under the Securities Act (), is unable to sell its Micron Shares within a three-month period due to the volume limitations generally applicable to affiliates of an issuer under Rule 144 (the ), upon the request of any Seller meeting the Registration Conditions which is made between November 7, 2011 and May 6, 2013.
Micron
Intel
ITA
ST
Redwood
PK
Sellers
SHRRA
Shelf Registration Statement
Rule 144
Registration Conditions
The SHRRA also contains a prohibition on the transfer of Micron Shares by the Sellers prior to the expiration of a six-month lock-up period, subject to customary exceptions for certain permitted transfers.  Subject to certain limited exceptions, ST has agreed that in respect of any matter to be voted on by Microns stockholders, so long as ST and its affiliates beneficially own 5% or more of Microns outstanding common stock, ST will vote its Micron Shares (and any other Micron voting securities owned by it at such time) in the same manner as recommended by the board of directors of Micron to Microns shareholders in respect of such matter.
In addition, each Seller and its controlled affiliates are subject to certain standstill restrictions under the SHRRA whereby the Sellers have agreed not to, and have agreed to cause their controlled affiliates not to, among other things, acquire any Micron securities, assets or businesses, make or participate in any proxy solicitation in respect of Microns common stock, or seek to influence or control Microns board of directors.  The standstill restrictions apply until the earlier to occur of (a) May 7, 2013; (b) the consummation of a change in control of Micron; and (c) the date on which such Seller and its affiliates no longer beneficially own 5% or more of Microns outstanding common stock.
Item 2.01                      Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement (the ), dated February 9, 2010, by and among Micron, Micron Semiconductor, B.V. (), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Micron, and the Sellers, on May 7, 2010, Micron completed its acquisition (the ) of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Numonyx Holdings B.V. () from the Sellers for a total consideration consisting of 137,710,146 shares of Micron common stock (the ).  Of these M icron Shares, 21,000,000 shares have been placed in escrow for a 12 month period following the closing of the Share Purchase as partial security for the Sellers indemnity obligations under the Purchase Agreement.  In addition, Micron assumed all outstanding restricted stock units () held by Numonyx employees representing approximately 4.8 million shares of Micron common stock.  Micron announced the completion of the Share Purchase in a press release dated May 7, 2010, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Purchase Agreement
MNL
Share Purchase
Numonyx
Micron Shares
RSUs
The foregoing description of the Share Purchase is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Purchase Agreement, which was previously filed as Exhibit 10.88 to Microns Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on April 10, 2010.
Microns offer and sale of the Micron Shares was conducted as a private placement pursuant to an exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), based on the limited nature of the offering and the Sellers status as accredited investors.  Accordingly, the Micron Shares issued in the Share Purchase are restricted within the meaning of Rule 144 of the Securities Act.  Subject to certain conditions, the Sellers may require Micron to register the Micron Shares for resale on a Form S-3 registration statement pursuant to the SHRRA as described under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Securities Act
 
 
 
Item 3.02                      Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
The information set forth in Item 2.01 related to the issuance of the Micron Shares is hereby incorporated by reference under this Item 3.02.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
The financial statements required by Item 9.01(a) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment within 71 calendar days after the date this report on Form 8-K must be filed.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
The pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment within 71 calendar days after the date this report on Form 8-K must be filed.
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Micron Technology, Inc., (NASDAQ: MU) announced today that the company has completed its acquisition of Numonyx B.V. in an all stock transaction valued at approximately $1.2 billion USD. Under the agreement, Micron issued approximately 138 million shares of Micron common stock to Numonyx shareholders, Intel, STMicroelectronics, N.V. and Francisco Partners, and assumed outstanding restricted stock units held by Numonyx employees.
BOISE, Idaho, and GENEVA, May 7,
2010
With this acquisition, Micron builds on its position as one of the worlds leading memory companies with increased scale, a broader product portfolio and industry-leading technology,  said Steve Appleton, Chairman and CEO of Micron.
The transaction further strengthens Microns broad portfolio of DRAM, NAND and NOR memory products and strong expertise in developing and supporting memory system solutions. Micron also gains increased manufacturing and revenue scale along with access to Numonyxs customer base, providing significant opportunities to increase multi-chip offerings in the embedded and mobile markets.
As of Dec. 31, 2009, Numonyx reported net assets of $1.3 billion and cash and cash equivalents, net of debt to unrelated parties of $70 million. In the fourth calendar quarter, Numonyx generated $42 million in free cash flow based on quarterly revenues of approximately $550 million.
About Micron
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets a full range of DRAM, NAND and NOR flash memory, as well as other innovative memory technologies, packaging solutions and semiconductor systems for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking, embedded and mobile products. Microns common stock is traded on the NASDAQ under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit .
www.micron.com
 
Micron and the Micron orbit logo are trademarks of Micron Technology, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the impact of the acquisition on Microns results and operations. Actual events or results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to the documents Micron files on a consolidated basis from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically Micron's most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results for Micron on a consolidated basis to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements (see Certain Factors). Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or ach ievements.
 


