FILE:MU/MU-8K-20110408162123.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
o
 
 
 
Effective April 7, 2011, the Companys Board of Directors appointed Patrick J. Byrne as a member of the Companys Board of Directors.  Mr. Byrne has also been appointed to the Compensation Committee and the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors.  The full text of the press release issued in connection with the appointment of Mr. Byrne to the Board of Directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
1
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 
 
 
3
 

 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
-- Micron Technology, Inc., (NASDAQ: MU) today announced the appointment of Patrick J. Byrne to the companys Board of Directors, effective immediately. Mr. Byrne is the Chief Executive Officer and President of Intermec, Inc., a leading developer and integrator of products, services and technologies that identify, track and manage supply chain assets and information.
Boise, Idaho, Thursday, April 7, 2011
We are very pleased to welcome Pat to our Board of Directors, said Steve Appleton, Micron Chairman and CEO. Pat brings valuable experience and strengths to our Board, and we look forward to his contributions.
Mr. Byrne has served as Intermec President and CEO, as well as a member of its Board of Directors, since July 2007. Prior to joining Intermec, Mr. Byrne was a 24-year veteran of Agilent Technologies and Hewlett Packard, where he held increasingly responsible positions in research, engineering, marketing and general management. Most recently, he served as Senior Vice President of Agilent Technologies and President of Agilents Electronic Measurement Group.
 
Mr. Byrne is a member of the Board of Directors of Flow International, a manufacturer of ultrahigh-pressure waterjet technology and a leading provider of robotics and assembly equipment. Additionally, Mr. Byrne is a member of the Board of Samuel Ginn College of Engineering at Auburn University. He holds degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley and Stanford University.
 
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the worlds leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets a full range of DRAM, NAND Flash and NOR Flash memory, as well as other innovative memory technologies, packaging solutions and semiconductor systems for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking, embedded and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the NASDAQ under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit .
www.micron.com
 
 


