FILE:MU/MU-8K-20111116154341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
o
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 
 
3
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:       Kipp Bedard                                                                Daniel Francisco
Investor Relations                                                     Media Relations
                                                
kbedard@micron.com
dfrancisco@micron.com
(208) 368-4465                                                              (208) 368-5584
 Micron Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ: MU) today confirmed that a jury in the California state court antitrust trial of Rambus Inc. v. Micron Technology et al. reached a verdict in its favor, clearing Micron of any and all liability.
BOISE, Idaho, Nov. 16, 2011
We are very pleased that the jury considered all the evidence at issue in this case and determined that Rambus allegations against the Company were completely without merit, said Steve Appleton, Microns Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The jurys verdict validates our assertion that Micron acted in accordance with the law and consistent with its values of innovation and fair competition in the marketplace.
 
 
Rambus alleged that Micron, Hynix Semiconductor Inc. and others conspired to keep Rambus-designed DRAM (RDRAM) chips out of the memory market. At trial, Micron presented evidence demonstrating that it was design flaws, higher manufacturing costs and other drawbacks associated with RDRAM along with Rambus business practices that prevented RDRAM from gaining wide acceptance in the market. In a trial presided over by Judge James McBride in California Superior Court in San Francisco, a jury found in favor of Micron on all counts.
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets a full range of DRAM, NAND and NOR flash memory, as well as other innovative memory technologies, packaging solutions and semiconductor systems for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking, embedded and mobile products. Microns common stock is traded on the NASDAQ under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit www.micron.com.
Micron and the Micron orbit logo are trademarks of Micron Technology, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
4


