Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Narrative discussion appearing under "Results of Operations", "Financial Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity" and "Critical Accounting Policies" and the "Safe Harbor Statement" in the 2003 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by reference. Non GAAP Financial Measures To supplement Emersons financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), management uses additional measures to clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and prospects for the future. These measures may exclude, for example, the impact of unique items (acquisitions, divestitures, one time gains and losses) or items outside of managements control (foreign currency exchange rates). Underlying sales (which exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures during the periods presented, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates) are provided to facilitate relevant period to period comparisons of sales growth excluding these unique items. Operating profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses) is indicative of short term operational performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely monitors operating profit of each business to evaluate past performance and actions required to improve profitability. Earnings per share excluding gains from divestitures provides additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company which facilitates period to period comparisons excluding the earnings impact of one time gains from strategic portfolio decisions. Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) is an indicator of the Companys cash generating capabilities after considering investments in capital assets necessary to maintain and enhance existing operations. Operating cash flow adds back non cash depreciation expense to earnings and thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Narrative discussion appearing under "Financial Instruments" in the 2003 Annual Report is hereby incorporated by reference. 
 
