Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information appearing under Results of Operations, Financial Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Critical Accounting Policies and the "Safe Harbor Statement" in the 2008 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by reference. Fiscal 2009 Outlook Fiscal year 2008 was a record year and Emerson is well positioned moving into an uncertain 2009 recessionary environment. Reported sales are forecast to be in the range of $23.5 billion to $25.5 billion, or negative 5 percent to positive 3 percent compared to 2008 sales of $24.8 billion. Underlying sales growth is expected to be in the range of negative 4 percent to positive 4 percent, which excludes an estimated 5 percent unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation at current exchange rates, and a favorable impact from completed and assumed future acquisitions of approximately 4 percent. Based on this level of sales, the Company forecasts 2009 earnings per share in the range of $2.80 to $3.20. There can be no assurance when and if future acquisitions will be completed, and what impact future exchange rates will have. 16 Non GAAP Financial Measures To supplement Emersons financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), management uses additional measures, including non GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, to clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and prospects for the future. Generally, a non GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys financial performance, financial position or cash flows that exclude (or include) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. For example, these financial measures may exclude the impact of certain unique items such as acquisitions, divestitures, one time gains and losses or items outside of managements control (e.g., foreign currency exchange rates). Management believes that the following non GAAP financial measures provide investors and analysts useful insight into Emersons financial position and performance. Underlying sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures during the periods presented, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, are provided to facilitate relevant period to period comparisons of sales growth by excluding these unique items that impact the overall comparability. Underlying sales should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to net sales as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Operating profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses) and operating profit margin (defined as operating profit divided by net sales) are indicative of short term operational performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely monitors operating profit and operating profit margin of each business to evaluate past performance and actions required to improve profitability. Operating profit and operating profit margin should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to pretax earnings or profit margin as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Earnings, earnings per share, return on equity and return on total capital excluding one time gains and losses provide additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company and facilitate period to period comparisons by excluding the earnings impact of these items. Given the unique nature of these items, management believes that presenting earnings, earnings per share, return on equity and return on total capital excluding them is more representative of the Companys operational performance and may be more useful for investors. However, these financial measures are not intended to replace earnings, earnings per share, return on equity or return on total capital as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) is an indicator of the Companys cash generating capabilities after considering investments in capital assets which are necessary to maintain and enhance existing operations. Operating cash flow adds back non cash depreciation expense to earnings and thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Although management believes that free cash flow is useful to both management and investors as a measure of the Companys ability to generate cash, it is not intended to replace operating cash flow as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Overall, while Emerson believes these non GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, the calculation of these non GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculation of similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies, and therefore they may not be comparable among companies. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Information appearing under "Financial Instruments" in the 2008 Annual Report is hereby incorporated by reference. 
 
