Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information appearing under Results of Operations, Financial Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Critical Accounting Policies and the "Safe Harbor Statement" in the 2009 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by reference. Fiscal 2010 Outlook Fiscal year 2009 was a challenging year, but Emerson believes it is well positioned moving into the uncertain 2010 economic environment. Underlying sales for fiscal year 2010 are expected to decline in the range of negative 5 percent to negative 7 percent, which excludes an estimated favorable increase of 7 percent to 5 percent due to foreign currency translation, completed and assumed future acquisitions and potential divestitures. Reported sales for the year are forecast to be in the range of positive 2 percent to negative 2 percent compared with 2009 sales of $20.9 billion. The Company also expects the operating profit margin to be flat to slightly down for the full year. There can be no assurance when or if potential future acquisitions or divestitures will be completed and what impact future exchange rate changes will have. Non GAAP Financial Measures To supplement Emersons financial information presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), management uses certain non GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the SEC, to clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and prospects for the future. Generally, a non GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys operating performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts that are included in or excluded from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. For example, non GAAP measures may exclude the impact of certain unique items such as acquisitions, divestitures, one time gains and losses or items outside of managements control, such as foreign currency exchange rates. Management believes that the following non GAAP financial measures provide investors and analysts useful insight into Emersons financial position and operating performance. 15 Underlying sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures during the periods presented, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, are provided to facilitate relevant period to period comparisons of sales growth by excluding these unique items that impact the overall comparability. Underlying sales should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to, net sales as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Operating profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses) and operating profit margin (defined as operating profit divided by net sales) are indicative of short term operational performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely monitors operating profit and operating profit margin of each business to evaluate past performance and actions required to improve profitability. Operating profit and operating profit margin should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to, pretax earnings or profit margin as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Earnings, earnings per share, return on equity and return on total capital excluding one time gains and losses provide additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company and facilitate period to period comparisons by excluding the earnings impact of these items. Given the unique nature of these items, management believes that presenting earnings, earnings per share, return on equity and return on total capital excluding them is more representative of the Companys operational performance and may be more useful for investors. However, these financial measures are not intended to replace earnings, earnings per share, return on equity or return on total capital as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) is an indicator of the Companys cash generating capabilities after considering investments in capital assets which are necessary to maintain and enhance existing operations. Operating cash flow adds back non cash depreciation expense to earnings and thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Although management believes that free cash flow is useful to both management and investors as a measure of the Companys ability to generate cash, it is not intended to replace operating cash flow as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Overall, while Emerson believes these non GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, the calculation of these non GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculation of similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies and therefore they may not be comparable among companies. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Information appearing under "Financial Instruments" in the 2009 Annual Report is hereby incorporated by reference. 
 
