Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information appearing under Results of Operations, Business Segments, Financial Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Critical Accounting Policies, and the "Safe Harbor Statement" in the 2011 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by reference. Fiscal 2012 Outlook The Company achieved strong sales and earnings results in 2011 and is well positioned moving into 2012, despite a weakening trend in business conditions. Underlying sales for fiscal year 2012 are expected to increase in the range of 5 percent to 7 percent, which excludes an estimated 1 percent unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Net sales for the year are forecast to be in the range of positive 4 percent to 6 percent compared with 2011 sales of $24.2 billion. The Company also expects operating profit margin of approximately 18 percent (excluding approximately 2.5 percent for other deductions, net and interest) and pretax margin of approximately 15.5 percent. Earnings per share growth is expected in the range of 8 percent to 12 percent. Process Management sources electrical and electronic components for some products from areas in Thailand that have suffered significant flood damage. The Company is implementing contingency plans and working with suppliers and customers to minimize the impact of supply disruptions. These disruptions will have a near term impact, but do not affect the fiscal year 2012 guidance announced previously and repeated above. Non GAAP Financial Measures To supplement Emersons financial information presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), management uses certain non GAAP financial measures, as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the SEC, to clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and prospects for the future. Generally, a non GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys operating performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts that are included in or excluded from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. For example, non GAAP measures may exclude the impact of certain items such as acquisitions, divestitures, gains and losses, or items outside of managements control, such as foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Management believes that the following non GAAP financial measures provide investors and analysts useful insight into Emersons financial position and operating performance. Any non GAAP measure provided should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to, the most directly comparable measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as identified in italics below. Further, the calculation of these non GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculation of similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies and therefore may not be comparable among companies. Underlying sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures during the periods presented and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, are provided to facilitate relevant period to period comparisons of sales growth by excluding those items that impact overall comparability (U.S. GAAP measure: net sales). Operating profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses) and operating profit margin (defined as operating profit divided by net sales) are indicative of short term operational performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely monitors operating profit and operating profit margin of each business to evaluate past performance and actions required to improve profitability (U.S. GAAP measures: pretax earnings or pretax profit margin). 17 Earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders equity and return on total capital excluding certain gains and losses provide additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company and facilitate period to period comparisons by excluding the earnings impact of these items. Given the nature of these items, management believes that presenting earnings, earnings per share, return on equity and return on total capital excluding them is more representative of the Companys operational performance and may be more useful for investors (U.S. GAAP measures: earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders equity, return on total capital). Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) is an indicator of the Companys cash generating capabilities after considering investments in capital assets which are necessary to maintain and enhance existing operations. The determination of operating cash flow adds back non cash depreciation expense to earnings and thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Management believes that free cash flow is useful to both management and investors as a measure of the Companys ability to generate cash (U.S. GAAP measure: operating cash flow). Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Information appearing under "Financial Instruments" in the 2011 Annual Report is hereby incorporated by reference. 
 
