ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The information from the 2012 Annual Report set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto under Results of Operations, Business Segments, Financial Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity, Critical Accounting Policies, and "Safe Harbor Statement" is hereby incorporated by reference. 15Fiscal 2013 Outlook Orders have slowed as near term business investment has become more cautious and market visibility has deteriorated due to economic uncertainty in the U.S., China and Europe. This has resulted in a challenging and tenuous planning environment. Based on current market conditions with slowing economic momentum, reported and underlying sales in 2013 are expected to grow at a rate in a low single digit range of 0 to 5 percent, led by solid near term growth for Process Management supported by continued project activity in oil and gas, chemical and power end markets, as well as steady near term improvement in North America residential end markets in Commercial & Residential Solutions. End market demand is expected to be sluggish in Industrial Automation, especially in Europe, and near term sales growth will be a challenge. Global market conditions for Climate Technologies are expected to remain uneven and generally sluggish in the near term. Excluding the 2012 goodwill impairment charge, EBIT margin is expected to improve 10 to 20 basis points (which excludes 240 basis points for impairment) and pretax earnings margin is expected to improve 250 to 260 basis points, which would result in earnings per share growth in the mid to high single digits from $3.39 in 2012. The majority of sales and earnings growth is expected to be realized in the first half of the year, due in large part to the quarterly impact of the Thailand flooding in 2012.Non GAAP Financial Measures To supplement Emersons financial information presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), management periodically uses certain non GAAP financial measures, as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the SEC, to clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and prospects for the future. Generally, a non GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys operating performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts that are included in or excluded from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. For example, non GAAP measures may exclude the impact of certain items such as acquisitions, divestitures, gains, losses and impairments, or items outside of managements control, such as foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Management believes that the following non GAAP financial measures provide investors and analysts useful insight into Emersons financial position and operating performance. Any non GAAP measure provided should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to, the most directly comparable measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as identified in italics below. Further, the calculation of these non GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculation of similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies and therefore may not be comparable among companies. Underlying sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates during the periods presented, are provided to facilitate relevant period to period comparisons of sales growth by excluding those items that impact overall comparability (U.S. GAAP measure: net sales). Operating profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses) and operating profit margin (defined as operating profit divided by net sales) are indicative of short term operational performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely monitors operating profit and operating profit margin of each business to evaluate past performance and actions required to improve profitability. EBIT (defined as earnings before deductions for interest expense, net and income taxes) and total segment EBIT, and EBIT margin (defined as EBIT divided by net sales) and total segment EBIT margin, are commonly used financial measures that exclude the impact of financing on the capital structure and income taxes. All these measures are utilized by management to evaluate performance (U.S. GAAP measures: pretax earnings or pretax profit margin).Earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders equity and return on total capital excluding certain gains and losses, impairments or other items provide additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company and facilitate period to period comparisons by excluding the earnings impact of these items. Management believes that presenting earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders equity and return on total capital excluding these items is more representative of the Companys operational performance and may be more useful for investors (U.S. GAAP measures: earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders equity, return on total capital).16Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) is an indicator of the Companys cash generating capabilities after considering investments in capital assets which are necessary to maintain and enhance existing operations. The determination of operating cash flow adds back non cash depreciation expense to earnings and thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Management believes that free cash flow is useful to both management and investors as a measure of the Companys ability to generate cash (U.S. GAAP measure: operating cash flow). ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information from the 2012 Annual Report set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto under "Financial Instruments" is hereby incorporated by reference. 
 
