FILE:PM/PM-8K-20080331170140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective as of the close of business on March 28, 2008, the separation of Philip Morris International Inc. ("PMI") from Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") was completed (the "Spin-off"). In connection with the Spin-off, PMI entered into certain agreements with Altria to define responsibility for obligations arising before and after the Spin-off, including, among others, obligations relating to transition services, employees, taxes and intellectual property.
On March 28, 2008, PMI entered into a Transition Services Agreement (the "Transition Services Agreement") with Altria Corporate Services, Inc., a subsidiary of Altria ("ALCS"), pursuant to which ALCS will provide a variety of services to PMI for a period of time following the Spin-off not to exceed twenty-four months. The transition services include, among others, consulting services related to risk management, benefit administration and information technology as well as the transfer of transaction processing (accounts payable and expense reports) for certain Latin American markets.
On March 28, 2008, PMI entered into an Employee Matters Agreement (the "Employee Matters Agreement") with Altria. The Employee Matters Agreement governs PMI's and Altria's respective obligations with respect to employees, compensation plans, treatment of holders of Altria stock options, restricted stock and deferred stock with respect to PMI, and cooperation between the companies in the sharing of employee information and maintenance of confidentiality.
On March 28, 2008, PMI entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement (the "Tax Sharing Agreement") with Altria. The Tax Sharing Agreement generally governs PMI's and Altria's respective rights, responsibilities and obligations for pre-distribution periods and for potential taxes on the Spin-off. With respect to any potential taxes resulting from the Spin-off, responsibility for such tax will be allocated to the party that acted (or failed to act) in a manner which resulted in such tax.
Effective as of January 1, 2008, PMI entered into an Intellectual Property Agreement (the "Intellectual Property Agreement") with Philip Morris USA Inc., a subsidiary of Altria ("PM USA"). The Intellectual Property Agreement governs the ownership of intellectual property between PMI and PM USA. Ownership of the jointly funded intellectual property has been allocated as follows: (i) PMI owns all rights to the jointly funded intellectual property outside the United States, its territories and possessions and (ii) PM USA owns all rights to the jointly funded intellectual property in the United States, its territories and possessions. Ownership of intellectual property related to patent applications and resulting patents based solely on the jointly funded intellectual property, regardless when filed or issued, will be exclusive to PM USA in the United States, its territories and possessions and exclusive to PMI everywhere else in the world. Additionally, the Intellectual Property Agreement contains provisions concerning intellectual property that is independently developed by PMI or PM USA following the Spin-off.
The foregoing descriptions of the Transition Services Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, the Tax Sharing Agreement and the Intellectual Property Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of these agreements which are attached as Exhibits 10.1 - 10.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
 
Resignation and Appointment of Directors
In connection with the Spin-off, on March 27, 2008, three management directors of PMI, Ann Marie Kaczorowski, Gregory Galligan and Andr Calantzopoulos, resigned from the Board of Directors.
Immediately following the resignation of the foregoing directors, the following individuals were appointed to the Board of Directors: Harold Brown, Mathis Cabiallavetta, Louis C. Camilleri, J. Dudley Fishburn, Lucio A. Noto, Sergio Marchionne and Carlos Slim Hel. Stephen M. Wolf continues to serve on the Board of Directors.
There are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which these individuals were selected as directors, and there are no related party transactions between these individuals and PMI. The PMI Board has not yet finally determined on which committees of the Board these individuals will serve. Mr. Wolf continues to serve on each of the Audit, Compensation and Leadership Development as well as the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees.
The compensation program of PMI's non-employee directors is described in detail in the Registration Statement on Form 10, as amended (File No. 001-33708 (the "Registration Statement")). Pursuant to this program, PMI intends to pay its non-employee directors an annual retainer of $100,000 and a retainer of $5,000 for each committee of which they are a member. PMI intends to pay the Presiding Director and the chairs of the Audit and Compensation and Leadership Development Committees an annual retainer of $20,000, and the chairs of the Finance, Nominating and Corporate Governance, and Product Innovation and Regulations Affairs Committees an annual retainer of $10,000 for additional services rendered in connection with committee chair responsibilities. Each non-employee director will also receive an annual share award with an aggregate fair market value of $140,000 at the first PMI Board Meeting scheduled for April 24, 2008. PMI directors will not receive meeting fees.
Appointment of Certain Officers
The following individuals have been appointed to the positions listed below effective as of 5:00 p.m. on March 28, 2008:
, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Louis C. Camilleri
, Chief Operating Officer.
Andr Calantzopoulos
, Vice President and Controller.
Joachim Psotta
, Chief Financial Officer.
Hermann Waldemer
 
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Effective March 28, 2008, PMI adopted the Philip Morris International Benefit Equalization Plan (a form of which was attached as an exhibit to the Registration Statement). The text of this plan is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.5 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The compensation programs for the executive officers of PMI, including the plan described above, and compensatory arrangements of Mr. Camilleri, Mr. Calantzopoulos and Mr. Waldemer, are described in detail in the Registration Statement. In addition, in connection with his appointment as Vice President and Controller of PMI effective March 28, 2008, Mr. Psotta's annual base salary for 2008 was set at CHF 612,200 (which is approximately equal to $613,700 on March 28, 2008). In accordance with the PMI executive compensation programs, Mr. Psotta's annual incentive awards and annual equity awards will be determined as a percentage of his base salary.
 
In connection with the Spin-off, on March 27, 2008, the Board of Directors adopted the Amended and Restated By-laws of PMI (a form of which was attached as an exhibit to PMI's Registration Statement). The text of the Amended and Restated By-laws is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 1. . - The annual meeting of the shareholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting, and any postponement or adjournment thereof, shall be held on such date and at such time and place as the Board of Directors may in its discretion determine.
Annual Meetings
Section 2. . - Unless otherwise provided by law, special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the chairman of the Board of Directors or by order of the Board of Directors, whenever deemed necessary. At a special meeting of shareholders, no business shall be transacted and no corporate action shall be taken other than that stated in the notice of the meeting.
Special Meetings
Section 3. . - All meetings of the shareholders shall be held at such places as from time to time may be fixed by the Board of Directors.
Place of Meetings
Section 4. . - Notice, stating the place, day and hour and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting (unless a different time is specified herein or by law) to each shareholder of record having voting power in respect of the business to be transacted thereat. Notice of a shareholders' meeting to act on an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, a plan of merger, share exchange, domestication or entity conversion, a proposed sale of the Corporation's assets pursuant to  13.1-724 of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act or the dissolution of the Corporation shall be given not less than 25 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting and shall be accompanied, as appropriate, by a copy of the proposed amendment, plan of merger or share exchange, domestication, entity conversion, or sale agreement.
Notice of Meetings
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a written waiver of notice signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice and delivered to the Secretary of the Company, either before or after the time of the meeting that is subject to such notice, shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice. A shareholder who attends a meeting shall be deemed to have (a) waived objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless at the beginning of the meeting he or she objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting, and (b) waived objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice, unless he or she objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
Section 5. . - At all meetings of the shareholders, unless a greater number or voting by classes is required by law, a majority of the shares entitled to vote, represented in
Quorum
person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting, unless a new record date is set for that meeting. If a quorum is present, action on a matter is approved if the votes cast favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action, unless the vote of a greater number or voting by classes is required by law or the Articles of Incorporation. Less than a quorum may adjourn a meeting.
Section 6. . - At all meetings of the shareholders, the chairman of the Board of Directors or, in the chairman's absence, the president, shall act as chairman. In the absence of the foregoing persons, or, if present, with their consent, a majority of the shares entitled to vote at such meeting may appoint any person to act as chairman. The secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all meetings of the shareholders. In the absence of the secretary, the chairman may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization and Order of Business
The chairman shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, the establishment of procedures for the dismissal of business not properly presented, the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls.
At each annual meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any shareholder of the Corporation who shall be entitled to vote at such meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 6. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be given, either by personal delivery or by United States certified mail, postage prepaid, and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the first anniversary of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement in connection with the last annual meeting of shareholders or (ii) if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, not less than 60 days before the date of the applicable annual meeting. A shareholder's notice to the secretary shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented at the annual meeting, and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's stock transfer books, of such shareholder proposing such business, (c) a representation that such shareholder is a shareholder of record and intends to appear in person or by proxy at such meeting to bring the business before the meeting specified in the notice, (d) the class, series, if any, and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by the shareholder and (e) any material interest of the shareholder in such business. The secretary of the Corporation shall deliver each such shareholder's notice that has been timely received to the Board of Directors or a committee designated by the Board of Directors for review. Notwithstanding anything in the By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall
 
be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 6. The chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine that the business was not brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 6. If the chairman should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6, a shareholder seeking to have a proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement shall comply with the requirements of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including, but not limited to Rule 14a-8 or its successor provision).
Section 7. . - A shareholder may vote his or her shares in person or by proxy. Any proxy shall be delivered to the secretary of the meeting or to the inspector of election appointed in accordance with Section 9 at or prior to the time designated by the chairman or in the order of business for so delivering such proxies. No proxy shall be valid after 11 months from its date, unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Each holder of record of stock of any class shall, as to all matters in respect of which stock of such class has voting power, be entitled to such vote as is provided in the Articles of Incorporation for each share of stock of such class standing in the holder's name on the books of the Corporation as of the date provided in the Virginia Stock Corporation Act. Unless required by statute or determined by the chairman to be advisable, the vote on any question need not be by ballot. On a vote by ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the shareholder voting or by such shareholder's proxy, if there be such a proxy.
Voting
Section 8. . - A shareholder or a shareholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy. Execution may be accomplished by the shareholder or such shareholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact or authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing such shareholder's signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means, including, but not limited to, facsimile signature.
Written Authorization
Section 9. . - A shareholder or a shareholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact may authorize another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy by effecting or authorizing an electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission. An electronic transmission shall contain or be accompanied by information from which one can determine that the shareholder, the shareholder's agent or the shareholder's attorney-in-fact authorized the transmission. For purposes of this Section 9 and the remainder of these By-Laws, "electronic transmission" has the meaning assigned to it in 13.1-603 of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act (or any successor provision). Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to this Section 9 may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
Electronic Authorization
Section 10. . - At every meeting of the shareholders, the proxies shall be received and taken in charge, all ballots shall be received and counted and all questions concerning
Inspectors
 
the qualifications of voters, the validity of proxies and the acceptance or rejection of votes shall be decided by two or more inspectors. Such inspectors shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting. They shall be sworn faithfully to perform their duties and shall in writing certify to the returns. No candidate for election as director shall be appointed or act as inspector.
Section 1. . - The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors.
General Powers
Section 2. . - The number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be nine.
Number
Section 3. . - Each director shall serve for the term for which he or she shall have been elected and until a successor shall have been duly elected.
Term of Office
Section 4. .
Nomination and Election of Directors
(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Section 4, each director shall be elected by a vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that director-nominee's election at a meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present. For purposes of this Section 4, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of shares voted "against" that director.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to any election of directors if there are more nominees for election than the number of directors to be elected, one or more of whom are properly proposed by shareholders. A nominee for director in an election to which this subsection (b) applies shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in such election.
(c) At each annual meeting of shareholders, the shareholders entitled to vote shall elect the directors. No person shall be eligible for election as a director unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 4. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors or by any shareholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at the applicable meeting of shareholders who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 4. Such nominations, other than those made by the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may be made only if written notice of a shareholder's intent to nominate one or more persons for election as directors at the applicable meeting of shareholders has been given, either by personal delivery or by United States certified mail, postage prepaid, to the secretary of the Corporation and received (i) not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the first anniversary of
 
the date of the Corporation's proxy statement in connection with the last annual meeting of shareholders, or (ii) if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date of the previous year's annual meeting, not less than 60 days before the date of the applicable annual meeting, or (iii) with respect to any special meeting of shareholders called for the election of directors, not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to shareholders. Each such shareholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to the shareholder giving the notice, (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's stock transfer books, of such shareholder, (ii) a representation that such shareholder is a shareholder of record and intends to appear in person or by proxy at such meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice, (iii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by such shareholder and (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by such shareholder; and (b) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of such person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (iii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation that are beneficially owned by such person, (iv) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors or is otherwise required by the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under the Exchange Act and (v) the written consent of such person to be named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected. The secretary of the Corporation shall deliver each such shareholder's notice that has been timely received to the Board of Directors or a committee designated by the Board of Directors for review. Any person nominated for election as director by the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors shall, upon the request of the Board of Directors or such committee, furnish to the secretary of the Corporation all such information pertaining to such person that is required to be set forth in a shareholder's notice of nomination. The chairman of the meeting of shareholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 4. If the chairman should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
Section 5. . - At all meetings of the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors or, in the absence of the chairman, a director chosen by a majority of other directors, shall act as chairman of the meeting. The secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all meetings of the Board of Directors. In the absence of the secretary at such meeting, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
 
Section 6. . - Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, including a vacancy resulting from amending these By-Laws to increase the number of directors by 30 percent or less, may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. The term of office of any director so elected shall expire at the next shareholders' meeting at which directors are elected.
Vacancies
Section 7. . - The chairman of the Board of Directors shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall preside at meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors and shall be responsible to the Board of Directors. He or she shall be responsible for the general management and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall see to it that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are implemented. The chairman shall be a member of the executive committee. The chairman shall, from time to time, report to the Board of Directors on matters within his or her knowledge that the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to its notice. The chairman shall do and perform such other duties as from time to time as the Board of Directors may prescribe.
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer
Section 8. . - Meetings of the Board of Directors, regular or special, may be held either within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia.
Place of Meeting
Section 9. . - The annual organizational meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held immediately following adjournment of the annual meeting of shareholders and at the same place, without the requirement of any notice other than this provision of the By-Laws.
Organizational Meeting
Section 10. . - Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times and places as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. Notice of such meetings need not be given if the time and place have been fixed at a previous meeting.
Regular Meetings: Notice
Section 11. . - Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by order of the chairman of the Board of Directors. Notice of each such meeting of the Board of Directors, which need not specify the business to be transacted thereat, shall be mailed to each director, addressed to his or her residence or usual place of business, at least twenty-four hours before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or be delivered by a form of electronic transmission as previously consented to by the director to whom notice is given or be delivered personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held.
Special Meetings
Section 12. . - Whenever any notice is required to be given to a director of any meeting for any purpose under the provisions of law, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, either before or after the time stated therein, shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice. A director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to him
Waiver of Notice
 
or her of the meeting unless at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon the director's arrival, he or she objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
Section 13. . - Except where otherwise provided by law, a majority of the directors fixed by these By-Laws at the time of any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting, and the act of a majority of the directors present at any such meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum be had. Notice of any such adjourned meeting need not be given.
Quorum and Manner of Acting
Section 14. . - At all meetings of the Board of Directors business may be transacted in such order as from time to time the Board of Directors may determine.
Order of Business
Section 15. . - In addition to the executive committee authorized by Article III of these By-Laws, other committees, consisting of two or more directors, may be designated by the Board of Directors by a resolution adopted by the greater number of (a) a majority of all directors in office at the time the action is being taken or (b) the number of directors required to take action under Article II, Section 13 hereof. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors designating the committee, shall have and may exercise the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, except as limited by law.
Committees
Section 1. . - The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted pursuant to Article II, Section 15 hereof, may designate two or more directors to constitute an executive committee, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The executive committee, to the extent provided in such resolution and permitted by law, shall have and may exercise all of the authority of the Board of Directors.
How Constituted and Powers
Section 2. . - The executive committee may choose a chairman and secretary. The executive committee shall keep a record of its acts and proceedings and report the same from time to time to the Board of Directors.
Organization, Etc
Section 3. . - Meetings of the executive committee may be called by any member of the committee. Notice of each such meeting, which need not specify the business to be transacted thereat, shall be mailed to each member of the committee, addressed to his or her residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held or shall be by a form of electronic transmission as previously consented to by the director to whom notice is given or be delivered personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held.
Meetings
Section 4. . - A majority of the executive committee shall constitute a quorum for transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at
Quorum and Manner of Acting
 
a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the executive committee. The members of the executive committee shall act only as a committee, and the individual members shall have no powers as such.
Section 5. . - Any member of the executive committee may be removed, with or without cause, at any time, by the Board of Directors.
Removal
Section 6. . - Any vacancy in the executive committee shall be filled by the Board of Directors.
Vacancies
Section 1. . - The officers of the Corporation shall be a chief executive officer, a chief financial officer, a treasurer, a president, one or more vice presidents, a secretary and such other officers, including vice chairman (who shall not be a director unless otherwise properly elected to the Board of Directors), as may from time to time be chosen by the Board of Directors. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Officers
Section 2. . - All officers of the Corporation shall be chosen annually by the Board of Directors, and each officer shall hold office until a successor shall have been duly chosen and qualified or until the officer resigns or is removed in the manner hereinafter provided.
Election, Term of Office and Qualifications
Section 3. . - If any vacancy shall occur among the officers of the Corporation, such vacancy shall be filled by the Board of Directors.
Vacancies
Section 4. . - The Board of Directors may from time to time appoint such other officers as the Board of Directors may deem necessary, to hold office for such time as may be designated by it or during its pleasure, and the Board of Directors or the chief executive officer may appoint, from time to time, such agents and employees of the Corporation as may be deemed proper, and may authorize any officers to appoint and remove agents and employees. The Board of Directors or the chief executive officer may from time to time prescribe the powers and duties of such other officers, agents and employees of the Corporation.
Other Officers, Agents and Employees - Their Powers and Duties
Section 5. . - Any officer, agent or employee of the Corporation may be removed, either with or without cause, by the Board of Directors or, in the case of any agent or employee not appointed by the Board of Directors, by an officer or employee upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the Board of Directors or the chief executive officer.
Removal
Section 6. . - The chief executive officer shall be devoted to the Corporation's business and affairs under the basic policies set by the Board of Directors and shall from time to time report to the Board of Directors on matters within his or her knowledge that the interests of the Corporation may require to be brought to the Board of Directors' notice. The chief executive officer shall be responsible to the Board of Directors and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
Chief Executive Officer
 
Section 7. . - The president of the Corporation shall assist the chairman of the Board of Directors and the chief executive officer in carrying out their respective duties and shall perform those duties that may from time to time be assigned to him or her.
President
Section 8. . - The vice presidents of the Corporation shall assist the chairman of the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer and the president in carrying out their respective duties and shall perform those duties that may from time to time be assigned to them.
Vice Presidents
Section 9. . - The chief financial officer shall be a vice president of the Corporation and shall be responsible for the management and supervision of the financial affairs of the Corporation.
Chief Financial Officer
Section 10. . - The treasurer shall have charge of the funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation. He or she shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such banks or trust companies or with such bankers or other depositaries as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. The treasurer shall render to the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors, the president and the chief financial officer, whenever required by any of them, an account of all of his or her transactions as treasurer. The treasurer shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her.
Treasurer
Section 11. . - The secretary shall prepare and keep the minutes of all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors in a book or books kept for that purpose. He or she shall keep in safe custody the seal of the Corporation, and shall affix such seal to any instrument requiring it. The secretary shall have charge of such books and papers as the Board of Directors may direct. He or she shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the Corporation and shall also have such other powers and perform such other duties as pertain to the secretary's office, or as the Board of Directors or chief executive officer may from time to time prescribe.
Secretary
Section 12. . - The Board of Directors or a specially designated committee thereof shall have authority to fix the compensation of all officers of the Corporation.
Executive Compensation
Section 13. . - In the event an officer of the Company is unavailable to perform his or her duties for any reason, and notwithstanding any provision of these By-Laws to the contrary, the Board of Directors is authorized to elect any director or officer of the Company to fill such position on a temporary basis. Any person so elected shall have such title as may be conferred by the Board of Directors; shall, unless limited by the resolution electing such person, have all the powers and duties of the office being temporarily filled as set forth in these By-Laws; and shall hold such office until the Board of Directors determines the original officer is again available to serve or until such temporary officer resigns or is removed by the Board of Directors.
Temporary Duties
 
Section 1. . - The chief executive officer, the president, any vice president and such other persons as the chief executive officer or the Board of Directors may authorize shall have the power to execute any contract or other instrument on behalf of the Corporation; no other officer, agent or employee shall, unless otherwise in these By-Laws provided, have any power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or acknowledgement, or pledge its credit or render it liable pecuniarily for any purpose or to any amount.
Contracts
Section 2. . - The chief executive officer, the president, any vice president and such other persons as the chief executive officer or the Board of Directors may authorize shall have the power to effect loans and advances at any time for the Corporation from any bank, trust company or other institution, or from any corporation, firm or individual, and for such loans and advances may make, execute and deliver promissory notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, and, as security for the payment of any and all loans, advances, indebtedness and liability of the Corporation, may pledge, hypothecate or transfer any and all stocks, securities and other personal property at any time held by the Corporation, and to that end endorse, assign and deliver the same.
Loans
Section 3. . - The chief executive officer, the president, any vice president or the secretary may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name of the Corporation, to cast the votes that the Corporation may be entitled to cast as a shareholder or otherwise in any other corporation, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to consent in writing to any action by any other such corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise such written proxies, consents, waivers or other instruments as such officer may deem necessary or proper in the premises; or the chief executive officer, the president, any vice president or the secretary may attend in person any meeting of the holders of stock or other securities of such other corporation and thereat vote or exercise any and all powers of the Corporation as the holder of such stock or other securities of such other corporation.
Voting of Stock Held
Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the chief executive officer and the secretary. Any and all signatures on such certificates, including signatures of officers, transfer agents and registrars, may be by facsimile. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, the Corporation may adopt a system of issuance, recordation and transfer of its shares by electronic or other means not involving any issuance of certificates, provided the use of such system by the Corporation is permitted in accordance with applicable law.
 
The provisions of Article 14.1 of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act governing control share acquisitions shall not apply to acquisitions of shares of the Corporation.
The Board of Directors shall provide a suitable seal or seals, which shall be in the form of a circle, and shall bear around the circumference the name of the Corporation, the word "Seal" and in the center the word and figures "Virginia, 2006."
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year.
The power to alter, amend or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation or to adopt new By-Laws shall be vested in the Board of Directors, but By-Laws made by the Board of Directors may be repealed or changed by the shareholders, or new By-Laws may be adopted by the shareholders, and the shareholders may prescribe that any By-Laws made by them shall not be altered, amended or repealed by the directors.
If a quorum of the Board of Directors cannot be readily assembled because of some catastrophic event, and only in such event, these By-Laws shall, without further action by the Board of Directors, be deemed to have been amended for the duration of such emergency, as follows:
Section 1. Section 6 of Article II shall read as follows:
Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting of the Board of Directors called in accordance with these By-Laws.
Section 2. The first sentence of Section 11 of Article II shall read as follows:
Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by order of any person having the powers and duties of the chairman of the Board of Directors.
 
Section 3. Section 13 of Article II shall read as follows:
The directors present at any regular or special meeting called in accordance with these By-Laws shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting, and the action of a majority of such directors shall be the act of the Board of Directors, provided, however, that in the event that only one director is present at any such meeting no action except the election of directors shall be taken until at least two additional directors have been elected and are in attendance.
In addition, in case of a catastrophic event, the Board of Directors may have such emergency powers as may be permitted by the Virginia Stock Corporation Act.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
, dated as of March 28, 2008 (as amended and supplemented pursuant to the terms hereof, this "Agreement"), is entered into by and between Altria Corporate Services, Inc., a New York corporation ("ALCS"), and Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation ("PMI").
THIS TRANSITION SERVICES AGREEMENT
, ALCS currently provides certain services to PMI and its wholly-owned subsidiaries pursuant to a Services Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2004, as amended (the "Original Services Agreement"); and
WHEREAS
, Altria Group Inc., a Virginia corporation ("Altria"), and PMI have entered into a Distribution Agreement, dated as of January 30, 2008 (the "Distribution Agreement"), providing for, among other things, the distribution by Altria of its entire ownership interest in PMI through a pro-rata distribution of all of the outstanding shares of PMI Common Stock owned by Altria on the Distribution Date to the holders of Altria Common Stock pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions of the Distribution Agreement (the "Distribution"); and
WHEREAS
, ALCS and PMI desire to enter into this Agreement to supercede the Original Services Agreement and to set forth the roles and responsibilities with regard to services to be provided by ALCS to PMI for certain transition periods not to exceed twenty-four months following the Distribution.
WHEREAS
, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
: with respect to any specified Person, a Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person; provided, however, that for purposes of this Agreement, no member of either Group and no officer or director of any member of either Group shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of any member of the other Group.
Affiliate
: as defined in the preamble to this Agreement.
ALCS
: as defined in the recitals to this Agreement.
Altria
: the common stock, par value $0.33
Altria Common Stock
 1
/
3
per share, of Altria.
: Altria and the Subsidiaries of Altria other than members of the PMI Group.
Altria Group
: the United States Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C.  1-16, as the same may be amended from time to time.
Arbitration Act
: any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions located in the Commonwealth of Virginia or the State of New York are authorized or obligated by Law or executive order to close.
Business Day
: as defined in hereof.
Confidential Information
Section 8.1
: as defined in the recitals to this Agreement.
Distribution
: as defined in the recitals to this Agreement.
Distribution Agreement
: the date on which the Distribution becomes effective.
Distribution Date
: for each employee of ALCS performing the Transition Services, the salaries, fringe benefits, executive compensation benefits (if applicable) and depreciation/amortization of office equipment and software (if applicable) attributable to the employee, based on the ratio of ALCS's estimate of the time spent by the employee on behalf of PMI divided by the total time spent by the employee.
Employee Costs
: as defined in hereof.
Employee Matters Agreement
Section 3.1
: as defined in hereof.
Exhibits
Section 2.1
: as defined in hereof.
Fees
Section 3.1
: any federal, national, state, provincial, local, foreign, international or other court, government, department, commission, board, bureau or agency, authority (including, but not limited to, any central bank or taxing authority) or instrumentality (including, but not limited to, any court, tribunal or grand jury).
Governmental Authority
: the Altria Group or the PMI Group, as the context requires.
Group
: any federal, national, state, provincial, local or foreign statute, ordinance, regulation, code, license, permit, authorization, approval, consent, common law, legal doctrine, order, judgment, decree, injunction or requirement of any Governmental Authority or any order or award of any arbitrator, now or hereafter in effect. "Law" shall specifically include, but shall not be limited to, any state, federal, or foreign statute or common law for deceptive and unfair trade practices, unfair and fraudulent business practices, fraud, or violation of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Practices Act ("RICO") or similar statute.
Law
: means any and all claims, debts, Losses, liabilities, assessments, guarantees, assurances, commitments and obligations, of any kind, character or description (whether absolute, contingent, matured, not matured, liquidated, unliquidated, accrued, known, unknown, direct, indirect, derivative or otherwise or whether based in contract, tort, implied or express warranty, strict liability, criminal or civil statute, or otherwise) whenever arising, including, but not limited to, those arising under or in connection with any Law, and those arising under any contract, guarantee, commitment or undertaking.
Liabilities
 
: with respect to any Person, all losses, damages (whether compensatory, punitive, consequential, multiple or other), judgments, settlements, equitable or injunctive relief or disgorgements, including, where applicable, all punitive damages and criminal and civil fines and penalties, but excluding damages in respect of actual or alleged lost profits, suffered by such Person, and including all costs, expenses and interest relating thereto (including, but not limited to, all expenses of investigation, all accountant or attorneys' fees and all other out-of-pocket expenses), regardless of whether any such losses, damages, judgments, settlements, costs, expenses, fines and penalties relate to or arise out of such Person's own alleged or actual negligent, grossly negligent, reckless or intentional misconduct.
Losses
: as defined in the preamble to this Agreement.
Original Services Agreement
: ALCS and PMI (Party means either ALCS or PMI).
Parties
: as defined in the preamble to this Agreement.
PMI
: the common stock, no par value, of PMI.
PMI Common Stock
: PMI and the PMI Subsidiaries.
PMI Group
: an individual, a partnership, a joint venture, a corporation, a trust, a limited liability company, an unincorporated organization, or any government or any department or agency thereof.
Person
: as defined in hereof.
Records
Section 2.4
: as defined in hereof.
Representatives
Section 4.1
: with respect to any specified Person, any corporation or other legal or other entity of which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries controls or owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the stock or other equity interest entitled to vote on the election of members to the board of directors or similar governing body; provided, however, that for purposes of this Agreement, (1) the PMI Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be Subsidiaries of PMI and (2) no member of the PMI Group shall be deemed to be a Subsidiary of any member of the Altria Group.
Subsidiary
: as defined in hereof.
Transition Services (or "Services")
Section 2.1
: as defined for each Service in the appropriate Exhibit.
Transition Period
 
 
(a) Exhibits 1 through 9 (collectively, the "Exhibits") attached to and made a part of this Agreement describe the services to be provided by ALCS to PMI and one or more members of the PMI Group, as designated from time to time by PMI (the "Transition Services" or "Services"). The Parties have made a good faith effort as of the date hereof to identify each Transition Service and to complete the content of the Exhibits accurately. It is anticipated that the Parties will modify the Transition Services from time to time. In that case or to the extent that any Exhibit is incomplete, the Parties will use good faith efforts to modify the Exhibits. There are certain terms that are specifically addressed in the Exhibits attached hereto that may differ from the terms provided hereunder. In those cases, the specific terms described in the Exhibits shall govern that Transition Service.
(b) The Parties may also identify additional Services that they wish to incorporate into this Agreement. The Parties will create additional Exhibits setting forth the description of such Services, the Fees for such Services and any other applicable terms.
 
ALCS will provide the Transition Services either through its own resources, through the resources of its subsidiaries or Affiliates, or by contracting with independent contractors as agreed hereunder. To the extent that ALCS decides to provide a Transition Service through an independent contractor in the future, ALCS shall consult with and obtain the prior approval of PMI, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
 
In providing the Transition Services hereunder, ALCS will exercise the same degree of care as it has historically exercised in providing such Transition Services to its Affiliates prior to the date hereof, including at least the same level of quality, responsiveness and timeliness as has been exercised by ALCS with respect to such Transition Services.
 
ALCS shall keep full and detailed records dealing with all aspects of the Transition Services performed by it hereunder (the "Records") and:
(a) shall provide access to the Records to PMI at all reasonable times; and
(b) shall maintain the Records in accordance with good record management practices and with at least the same degree of completeness and care as it maintains for its other similar business interests.
 
 
PMI will pay to ALCS a fixed fee for each Transition Service as set forth in the attached Exhibits (collectively, the "Fees"). The Fees constitute full compensation to ALCS for all charges, costs and expenses incurred by ALCS on behalf of PMI in providing the Services, unless otherwise specifically provided in the Exhibits. Notwithstanding the terms of any of the Exhibits, the Fees for each Transition Service shall be reduced by any amounts PMI is required to pay pursuant to of the Employee Matters Agreement (the "Employee Matters Agreement"), dated as of even date herewith, between PMI and Altria, with respect to any person who provides Services under this Agreement and thereafter becomes a PMI Transferee (as defined in the Employee Matters Agreement). Except as specifically provided herein or in the Exhibits, or as subsequently agreed by PMI and ALCS, PMI will not be responsible to ALCS or any independent contractor retained by ALCS, for any additional fees, charges, costs or expenses relating to the Services, unless such additional fees, charges, costs or expenses are a direct result of PMI's unilateral deviation from the scope of the services defined in the Exhibits.
Section 4.1(c)
 
ALCS will deliver to PMI, no later than five days following the last day of each month, an invoice for the aggregate Fees incurred for that month. PMI will pay to ALCS monthly no later than the third Wednesday of the following month, the aggregate Fees incurred during the previous month.
 
(a) The Controller of Altria and the ControllerFinancial Reporting of PMI will serve as administrative representatives ("Representative(s)") of ALCS and PMI, respectively, to facilitate day-to-day communications and performance under this Agreement. Each Party may treat an act of a Representative of the other Party as being authorized by such other Party. Each Party may replace its Representative by giving written notice of the replacement to the other Party.
(b) No additional Exhibits, modifications to existing Exhibits, or amendments to this Agreement shall be effective unless and until executed by the Representatives of each of ALCS and PMI.
To the extent that it is not practicable to have PMI as the contracting Party for a third party obligation, ALCS, with respect to all Services supplied by ALCS or contracted for by ALCS on behalf of PMI, shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause all such third party
 
contracts to extend to and be enforceable by PMI, or to assign such contracts to PMI. In the event that such contracts are not extendable or assignable, ALCS shall act as agent for PMI in the pursuit of any claims, issues, demands or actions against such third party provider at PMI's expense. PMI will indemnify ALCS for any liability under third party contracts arising directly out of the acts or omissions of PMI.
 
Each Party represents to the other Party that:
(a) it has the requisite corporate authority to enter into and perform this Agreement;
(b) its execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on its behalf;
(c) this Agreement is enforceable against it; and
(d) it has obtained all consents or approvals of Governmental Authorities and other Persons that are conditions to its entering into this Agreement.
 
Each Party shall make available to the other Party any information required or reasonably requested by that other Party regarding the performance of any Service and shall be responsible for providing that information on a timely basis and for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of that information; , , that a Party shall not be liable for not providing any information that is subject to a confidentiality obligation owed by it to a Person other than an Affiliate of it or the other Party. ALCS shall not be liable for any impairment of any Service caused by ALCS not receiving information from PMI, either timely or at all, or by its receiving inaccurate or incomplete information from PMI, in each case that is required or reasonably requested regarding that Service.
provided
however
 
The Parties will use good faith efforts to cooperate with each other in all matters relating to the provision and receipt of Services. Such good faith cooperation will include providing electronic access to systems used in connection with Services and using commercially reasonable efforts to obtain all consents, licenses, sublicenses or approvals necessary to permit each Party to perform its obligations. The Parties will cooperate with each other in making such information available as needed in the event of any and all internal or external audits, whether in the United States or any other country. If this Agreement is terminated in whole or in part, the Parties will cooperate with each other in all reasonable respects in order to effect an efficient transition and to minimize the disruption to the business of both Parties, including the assignment or transfer of the rights and obligations under any contracts.
 
Each Party shall take such actions, upon request of the other Party and in addition to the actions specified in this Agreement, as may be necessary or reasonably appropriate to implement or give effect to this Agreement.
ALCS is hereby authorized to act as agent for PMI for the purpose of performing Services hereunder and as is necessary or desirable to perform such Services. PMI will execute and deliver or cause the appropriate member of the PMI Group to execute and deliver to ALCS any document or other evidence which may be reasonably required by ALCS to demonstrate to third parties the authority of ALCS described in this .
Article VII
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, "Confidential Information" means non-public information about the disclosing Party's or any of its Affiliates' business or activities that is proprietary and confidential, which shall include, without limitation, all business, financial, technical and other information, including software (source and object code) and programming code, of a Party or its Affiliates marked or designated "confidential" or "proprietary" or by its nature or the circumstances surrounding its disclosure should reasonably be regarded as confidential. Confidential Information includes not only written or other tangible information, but also information transferred orally, visually or electronically or by any other means. Confidential Information will not include information that (i) is in or enters the public domain without breach of this Agreement, or (ii) the receiving Party lawfully receives from a third party without restriction on disclosure and, to the receiving Party's knowledge without breach of a nondisclosure obligation.
 
Each of ALCS and PMI agree that (i) it will not disclose to any third party or use any Confidential Information disclosed to it by the other except as expressly permitted in this Agreement, and (ii) it will take all reasonable measures to maintain the confidentiality of all Confidential Information of the other Party in its possession or control, which will in no event be less than the measures it uses to maintain the confidentiality of its own information of similar type and importance.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Party may disclose Confidential Information (i) to the extent required by a court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority or otherwise as required by Law, including without limitation disclosure obligations imposed under the federal securities laws, provided that such Party has given the other Party prior notice of such
 
requirement when legally permissible to permit the other Party to take such legal action to prevent the disclosure as it deems reasonable, appropriate or necessary, or (ii) on a "need-to-know" basis under an obligation of confidentiality to its consultants, legal counsel, Affiliates, accountants, banks and other financing sources and their advisors.
 
All Confidential Information supplied or developed by either Party shall be and remain the sole and exclusive property of the Party who supplied or developed it.
 
This Agreement shall remain in effect until such time as it has been terminated as to all Transition Services in accordance with hereof.
Section 9.2
 
Either Party may terminate this Agreement without cause with respect to one or more Services under this Agreement by providing three months' written notice to the other Party or as otherwise agreed between the Parties hereto; the Services set forth in Exhibits 1 through 9 shall terminate not later than two years following the Distribution.
provided
that
 
ALCS agrees that, upon termination of this Agreement or any of the Services set forth in the Exhibits, ALCS will cooperate in good faith with PMI to provide PMI (or its designee) with reasonable assistance to make an orderly transition from ALCS to another supplier of the Services. If requested by PMI, ALCS will provide transition assistance services, including the following:
(a) developing a transition plan with assistance from PMI or its designee;
(b) providing training to PMI personnel or its designee's personnel to perform the Services; and
(c) organizing and delivering to PMI records and documents necessary to allow continuation of the Services, including delivering such materials in electronic forms and versions as requested by PMI.
 
 
Except as may be provided in below and above, ALCS and its Affiliates (each, an "ALCS Party") shall not be liable to any member of the PMI Group and its respective Affiliates (each, a "PMI Party") and each PMI Party shall not be liable to any ALCS Party, in each case, for any Liabilities of a PMI Party or an ALCS Party arising in connection with this Agreement and the Services provided hereunder.
Section 10.2
Article V
 
(a) ALCS shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless each of the PMI Parties from and against all Liabilities, of any kind or nature, (i) incurred by a PMI Party or (ii) of third parties unrelated to any PMI Party, in each case caused by or arising in connection with the gross negligence or willful misconduct of any employee of ALCS in connection with the performance of the Services, except to the extent that the Liabilities were caused directly or indirectly by acts or omissions of any PMI Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ALCS shall not be liable for any special, indirect, incidental, or consequential damages relating to such claims. Any Liability incurred by ALCS pursuant to this Agreement on or after the Distribution Date shall be deemed to be an Altria Group Liability for purposes of Article III of the Distribution Agreement.
(b) PMI shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless each of the ALCS Parties from and against all Liabilities of any kind or nature, (i) incurred by an ALCS Party or (ii) of third parties unrelated to any ALCS Party, in each case caused by or arising in connection with the gross negligence or willful misconduct of any employee of PMI in connection with PMI's performance under this Agreement, except to the extent that Liabilities were caused directly or indirectly by acts or omissions of any ALCS Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, PMI shall not be liable for any special, indirect, incidental, or consequential damages relating to such claims. Any Liability incurred by PMI pursuant to this Agreement on or after the Distribution Date shall be deemed to be a PMI Group Liability for purposes of Article III of the Distribution Agreement.
If the Parties are unable to resolve any service or performance issues or if there is a material breach of this Agreement that has not been corrected within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice of such breach, the ControllerFinancial Reporting and CFO of PMI, on behalf of PMI, and the Controller and CFO of Altria, on behalf of ALCS, will meet promptly to review and resolve those issues in good faith.
 
 
This Agreement terminates and supersedes the Original Services Agreement, which shall have no further force and effect following the effectiveness of this Agreement.
 
The following provisions of the Distribution Agreement are hereby incorporated herein by reference, and unless otherwise expressly specified herein, such provisions shall apply as if fully set forth herein (references in this to an "Article" or "Section" shall mean Articles and Sections of the Distribution Agreement, and except as expressly set forth below, references in the material incorporated herein by reference shall be references to the Distribution Agreement): Article III (relating to Mutual Releases and Indemnification); Article IV (relating to certain Additional Covenants); Article V (relating to Access to Information); and Article IX (relating to Miscellaneous).
Section 12.2
 
This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia (other than the laws regarding the choice of laws and conflict of laws) as to all matters, including matters of validity, construction, effect, performance and remedies , , that the Arbitration Act shall govern the matters described in Article X.
provided
however
 
Except as provided in hereof all references to Sections, Articles or Exhibits contained herein mean Sections, Articles or Exhibits of or to this Agreement, as the case may be, unless otherwise stated.
Section 12.2
 
All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder (collectively, "Notices") shall be in writing and shall be given (and shall be deemed to have been duly given upon receipt) by delivery in person, by cable, telegram, facsimile, electronic mail or other standard form of telecommunications (provided confirmation is delivered to the recipient the next Business Day in the case of facsimile, electronic mail or other standard form of telecommunications) or by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:
If to ALCS:
Controller, Altria Group, Inc.
P.O. Box 26603
Richmond, VA 23261
 
If to PMI:
ControllerFinancial Reporting, Philip Morris International Inc.
120 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10017
or to such other address as any party hereto may have furnished to the other parties by a notice in writing in accordance with this .
Section 12.5
 
, the Parties have signed this Agreement on the date first set forth above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
EXHIBIT 1
 
 
 
The Fee payable for Corporate Tax services for 2008 shall include: (i) the relevant Employee Costs associated with the filing assistance provided; (ii) a management fee equal to 5% of the aggregate amount calculated pursuant to (i); and (iii) third-party expenses, including travel and entertainment, consulting fees and printing costs incurred on behalf of PMI by ALCS.
 
EXHIBIT 2
 
A. U.S. Offices of PMI
 
 
B. Latin America Markets
 
 
 
The Fee payable for the financial services for 2008 shall include: (i) the relevant Employee Costs associated with the processing of accounts payable, time and expense reports and ADP payroll submissions/reconciliations; (ii) the pro rata share of infrastructure and fixed costs (stationery, depreciation, amortization of software) in the San Antonio shared service center based on the number of employees performing PMI work divided by the total number of San Antonio employees times the previously mentioned infrastructure and fixed costs; (iii) a management fee equal to 5% of the aggregate amount calculated pursuant to (i) and (ii); and (iv) third-party expenses, including ADP fees, travel and entertainment, consulting fees and printing costs incurred on behalf of PMI by ALCS.
 
EXHIBIT 3
 
 
 
The Fee payable for the Internal Auditing services for 2008 shall include: (i) the relevant Employee Costs associated with PMI's Latin America Audit functions; (ii) a management fee equal to 5% of the aggregate amount calculated pursuant to (i); and (iii) third-party expenses, including travel and entertainment, consulting fees and printing costs incurred on behalf of PMI by ALCS.
 
EXHIBIT 4
 
Applications required by PMI for business continuity and Global Network Services will continue normal operations and provide current services until the completion of PMI's migration of these applications. The estimated completion date for transition of all services is no later than December 31, 2008.
The systems & services in scope include but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 5
 
 
 
The Fee payable for the Health and Welfare programs for 2008 shall include: (i) the relevant Employee Costs associated with administering the program for PMI's US employees; (ii) a management fee equal to 5% of the aggregate amount calculated pursuant to (i); and (iii) third-party expenses, including travel and entertainment, administrative and consulting fees incurred on behalf of PMI by ALCS.
 
EXHIBIT 6
 
 
 
The Fee payable for 2008 shall include: (i) the relevant Employee Costs associated with consultation time requested; (ii) a management fee equal to 5% of the aggregate amount calculated pursuant to (i); and (iii) third-party expenses, including travel and entertainment, and consulting fees incurred on behalf of PMI by ALCS.
 
EXHIBIT 7
 
 
 
 
The Fee payable for the legal services for 2008 shall include: (i) the relevant Employee Costs associated with providing the services; (ii) a management fee equal to 5% of the aggregate amount calculated pursuant to (i); and (iii) third-party expenses, including travel and entertainment, administrative and consulting fees incurred on behalf of PMI by ALCS.
 
EXHIBIT 8
 
 
 
The Fee payable shall be monthly rent under the existing lease until the date that the lease is transferred to PMI.
 
EXHIBIT 9
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
, dated as of March 28, 2008 (as amended and supplemented pursuant to the terms hereof, this "Agreement"), is entered into by and between Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation ("Altria"), and Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation ("PMI").
THIS EMPLOYEE MATTERS AGREEMENT
, Altria and PMI have entered into a Distribution Agreement, dated as of January 30, 2008 (the "Distribution Agreement"), providing for, among other things, the distribution by Altria of its entire ownership interest in PMI through a pro-rata distribution of all of the outstanding shares of PMI Common Stock owned by Altria on the Distribution Date to the holders of Altria Common Stock pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions of the Distribution Agreement (the "Distribution"); and
WHEREAS
, Altria and PMI wish to set forth their agreement as to certain matters regarding the treatment of, and the compensation and employee benefits provided to, employees and former employees of the Altria Group and the PMI Group (as hereinafter defined).
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
1.1
General
: an Altria Option as adjusted pursuant to hereof.
Adjusted Altria Option
Section 5.1
: with respect to any specified Person, a Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person; , , for purposes of this Agreement, no member of either Group and no officer or director of any member of either Group shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of any member of the other Group.
Affiliate
provided
however
that
: as defined in the preamble to this Agreement.
Altria
: as defined in hereof.
Altria Benefit Liabilities
Section 2.1
: the common stock, par value $0.33
Altria Common Stock
 1
/
3
 per share, of Altria.
: a deferred stock obligation relating to Altria Common Stock granted by Altria before the Distribution Date under an Altria Performance Incentive Plan.
Altria Deferred Stock
: Altria and the Subsidiaries of Altria other than members of the PMI Group.
Altria Group
: any individual, excluding a PMI Transferee, who (i), as of the close of business on the Distribution Date, is either employed by, or on a leave of absence (as defined by the personnel policies of the Altria Group) from, a member of the Altria Group; (ii) is a Former Altria Group Employee; or (iii) is or becomes an Altria Transferee.
Altria Group Employee
:
Altria Group Plans
(i) the Altria Pension Plans;
(ii) the Altria Profit-Sharing Plans;
(iii) the Altria Welfare and Other Plans; and
(iv) the Altria Performance Incentive Plans.
: an option to acquire Altria Common Stock granted by Altria under an Altria Performance Incentive Plan before the Distribution Date.
Altria Option
: any company of the Altria Group whose eligible employees participate in the Altria Pension Plans and Altria Profit-Sharing Plans.
Altria Participating Company
: any of the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees, the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees, the Benefit Equalization Plan, the Supplemental Management Employees' Retirement Plan, the Retirement Plan for Employees of Philip Morris de Puerto Rico and any other qualified or non-qualified defined benefit plan or program that is identified by Altria before the Distribution Date as providing retirement income to Altria Group Employees, all as in effect as of the time relevant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
Altria Pension Plan
: any of the 1992 Incentive Compensation and Stock Option Plan, the 1997 Performance Incentive Plan, the 2000 Performance Incentive Plan or the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan, or any stock-based or other incentive plan for Altria Group Employees that is identified by Altria before the Distribution Date, all as in effect as of the time relevant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
Altria Performance Incentive Plans
: the Altria Pre-Adjustment Price multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the closing price of Altria Common Stock on the NYSE on the Distribution Date (as traded on the "when issued" market) and the denominator of which is the sum of the numerator plus the closing price of PMI Common Stock on the NYSE on the Distribution Date (as traded on the "when issued" market).
Altria Post-Adjustment Price
 
: the closing price of Altria Common Stock on the NYSE on the Distribution Date (as traded on the "regular way" market).
Altria Pre-Adjustment Price
: any of the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees, the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Tobacco Workers, the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Craft Employees, the Benefit Equalization Plan, the Supplemental Management Employees' Retirement Plan, the Savings Plan for Employees of Philip Morris de Puerto Rico and any other qualified or non-qualified defined contribution plan or program for Altria Group Employees that is identified by Altria before the Distribution Date, all as in effect as of the time relevant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
Altria Profit-Sharing Plan
: restricted Altria Common Stock granted by Altria before the Distribution Date under an Altria Performance Incentive Plan.
Altria Restricted Stock
: the investment option offered under the following Altria Profit-Sharing Plans: the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees, the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Tobacco Workers, the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Craft Employees; and the investment option offered under the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan whose value in each case is based on the value of Altria Common Stock.
Altria Stock Investment Option
: the Plan sponsored by Altria and administered by Computershare Trust Company, N.A., that allows eligible employees of Altria and its subsidiaries to purchase shares of Altria Common Stock through automatic payroll deductions, additional cash contributions and dividend reinvestment without incurring any brokerage commissions or other costs.
Altria Stock Purchase Plan
: any employee of a member of the PMI Group who will transfer employment to a member of the Altria Group on or after the Distribution Date, but on or prior to December 31, 2008.
Altria Transferee
: any plan, fund or program that provides health, medical, surgical, hospital or dental care, severance, survivor income, long-term disability, cafeteria, flexible benefits or other welfare benefits or benefits in the event of sickness, accident or disability, or death benefits to Altria Group Employees, all as in effect as of the time relevant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
Altria Welfare and Other Plans
: the United States Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C.  1-16, as the same may be amended from time to time.
Arbitration Act
: as defined in hereof.
Auditing Party
Section 8.3(a)
: any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions located in the Commonwealth of Virginia or the State of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
: the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
: as defined in the recitals to this Agreement.
Distribution
: as defined in the recitals to this Agreement.
Distribution Agreement
 
: the date on which the Distribution becomes effective.
Distribution Date
: Altria Options, Adjusted Altria Options, PMI Options, Kraft SARs, Altria Restricted Stock, PMI Restricted Stock, Altria Deferred Stock and PMI Deferred Stock.
Equity Compensation
: Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
: a deferred stock obligation relating to Kraft Class A Common Stock granted by Kraft as of or before March 30, 2007 under a Kraft Performance Incentive Plan.
Existing Kraft Deferred Stock
: an option to acquire Kraft Class A Common Stock, granted by Kraft as of or before March 30, 2007 under a Kraft Performance Incentive Plan.
Existing Kraft Options
: restricted Kraft Class A Common Stock granted by Kraft as of or before March 30, 2007 under a Kraft Performance Incentive Plan.
Existing Kraft Restricted Stock
: in the case of PMI Options and Adjusted Altria Options, the anticipated value of the options, determined using the Modified Black-Scholes option pricing model used by Altria in the preparation of its most recent annual or quarterly financial reporting prepared before the Distribution Date with such modifications as may be determined before the Distribution Date by Altria.
Fair Value
In the case of Existing Kraft Options, the Fair Value shall be the Fair Value used for such options pursuant to the Employee Matters Agreement By and Between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft Foods Inc.
: any individual who: (i) before the Distribution Date has retired from or otherwise separated from service from a member of the Altria Group and has not been re-employed by a member of the PMI Group before the Distribution Date; or (ii) has transferred from a member of the Altria Group or Former Altria Group that was an Altria Participating Company to a member of the Former Altria Group that was not an Altria Participating Company and thereafter separated from service from a member of the Former Altria Group and has not been re-employed by a member of the PMI Group before the Distribution Date; and, in all cases participates in, receives, or is entitled to receive, benefits under, any Altria Group Plan; , , a Former Altria Group Employee shall not include a PMI Group Transferee.
Former Altria Group Employee
provided
however
that
: shall mean the Altria Group as in existence on and prior to March 30, 2007 and shall include Altria and the then Subsidiaries of Altria other than members of the PMI Group.
Former Altria Group
: any individual who: (i) before the Distribution Date has retired from or otherwise separated from service from a member of the PMI Group and has not been re-employed by a member of the Altria Group before the Distribution Date; or (ii) has transferred from a member of the PMI Group to a member
Former PMI Group Employee
 
of the Former Altria Group that was not an Altria Participating Company and thereafter is separated from service from a member of the Former Altria Group that was not an Altria Participating Company and has not been re-employed by a member of the Altria Group before the Distribution Date; and, in each such case, participates in, receives or is entitled to receive, benefits under, any PMI Group Plan; or (iii) was employed by a PMI Participating Company, died before the Distribution Date while so employed and whose spouse and/or child are in receipt of a survivor income benefit allowance from the Survivor Income Benefit Plan for Salaried Employees on the Distribution Date; or (iv) was employed by a PMI Participating Company, suffered a disability (as defined in the Long-Term Disability Plan for Salaried Employees) before the Distribution Date while so employed and is in receipt of a disability allowance from the Long-Term Disability Plan for Salaried Employees on the Distribution Date; , , a Former PMI Group Employee shall not include an Altria Transferee.
provided
however
that
: any federal, state, local, foreign or international court, government, department, commission, board, bureau or agency, authority (including, but not limited to, any central bank or taxing authority) or instrumentality (including, but not limited to, any court, tribunal or grand jury) exercising executive, prosecutorial, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to government or any other regulatory, administrative or governmental authority, including the NYSE or any other exchange on which Altria or PMI Common Stock may be listed.
Governmental Authority
: the Altria Group or the PMI Group, as the context requires.
Group
: all records, books, contracts, instruments, computer data and other data and information.
Information
: with respect to the relevant options, the product of (i) the number of such options and (ii) the difference between the exercise price of such options and, for Altria Options, the Altria Pre-Adjustment Price, for Adjusted Altria Options, the Altria Post-Adjustment Price, and for PMI Options, the PMI Price, as applicable.
Intrinsic Value
: Kraft Foods Inc., a Virginia corporation.
Kraft
: the Class A common stock, no par value, of Kraft.
Kraft Class A Common Stock
: Kraft and the Kraft Subsidiaries.
Kraft Group
: the closing price of Kraft Class A Common Stock on the NYSE on the Distribution Date.
Kraft Price
: the 2001 Kraft Foods Inc. Performance Incentive Plan or the Kraft Foods Inc. 2005 Performance Incentive Plan.
Kraft Performance Incentive Plan
: a cash-settled stock appreciation right based on the value of Kraft Class A Common Stock resulting from an option to acquire Kraft Class A Common Stock originally granted by Altria as of June 12, 2001.
Kraft SAR
 
: the investment option offered under the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan whose value is based on the value of Kraft Class A Common Stock.
Kraft Stock Investment Option
: all of the Subsidiaries of Kraft as of March 30, 2007.
Kraft Subsidiaries
: any federal, state or local statute, ordinance, regulation, code, license, permit, authorization, approval, consent, common law, legal doctrine, order, judgment, decree, injunction or requirement of any Governmental Authority or any order or award of any arbitrator, now or hereafter in effect.
Law
: any and all claims, debts, liabilities, assessments, guarantees, assurances, commitments, obligations, fines, excise taxes, penalties, damages (whether compensatory, punitive, consequential, multiple or other), losses, disgorgements and obligations, of any kind, character or description (whether absolute, contingent, matured, not matured, liquidated, unliquidated, accrued, known, unknown, direct, indirect, derivative or otherwise) whenever arising, including, but not limited to, those arising under or in connection with any Law, and those arising under any contract, guarantee, commitment or undertaking, whether sought to be imposed by any Governmental Authority or arbitrator, whether based in contract, tort, implied or express warranty, strict liability, criminal or civil statute, or otherwise, and including all costs, expenses and interest relating thereto (including, but not limited to, all expenses of investigation, all attorneys' fees and all out-of-pocket expenses in connection with any action or threatened action).
Liabilities
: with respect to any Person, all losses, Liabilities, damages, claims, demands, judgments or settlements of any nature or kind, known or unknown, fixed, accrued, absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, including all costs and expenses (legal, accounting or otherwise as such costs are incurred) relating thereto, including punitive damages and criminal fines and penalties, but excluding damages in respect of actual or alleged lost profits, suffered by such Person, regardless of whether any such losses, Liabilities, damages, claims, demands, judgments, settlements, costs, expenses, fines and penalties relate to or arise out of such Person's own alleged or actual negligent, grossly negligent, reckless or intentional misconduct or the capacity in which such Person was acting.
Losses
: as defined in hereof.
Non-parties
Section 8.3(b)
: the Altria Group, the Kraft Group, and SABMiller.
Non-PMI Group
: the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
NYSE
: the ratio of the pre-adjustment exercise price of the applicable Altria Options to the Altria Pre-Adjustment Price.
Option Conversion Ratio
: with respect to an Altria Pension Plan, any benefit earned under a PMI Pension Plan (including, for this purpose, any defined benefit plan or program that provides retirement income for PMI Group Employees, regardless of
Permissible Offset
 
whether such PMI Group Employee is a U.S. payroll-based PMI Group Employee) that may be used to offset a benefit earned under an Altria Pension Plan, but only if such benefit is attributable to a period of service used to determine the amount of his or her benefit under the Altria Pension Plan; and with respect to a PMI Pension Plan, any benefit earned under an Altria Pension Plan that may be used to offset a benefit earned under a PMI Pension Plan, but only if such benefit is attributable to a period of service used to determine the amount of his benefit under the PMI Pension Plan.
: an individual, a committee, a partnership, a joint venture, a corporation, a trust, a limited liability company, an unincorporated organization, or a government or any department or agency thereof.
Person
: as defined in hereof.
Personal Data
Section 8.1
: as defined in the preamble to this Agreement.
PMI
: as defined in hereof.
PMI Benefit Liabilities
Section 2.2
: the common stock, no par value, of PMI.
PMI Common Stock
: a deferred stock obligation relating to PMI Common Stock granted by PMI as of the Distribution Date under a PMI Performance Incentive Plan pursuant to and hereof.
PMI Deferred Stock
Section 5.3(a)
Section 5.4(a)
: PMI and the PMI Subsidiaries; provided, however, that solely for the purpose of determining whether a former employee of the PMI Group is a Former PMI Group Employee, PMI Group shall include PM Duty Free, Inc.
PMI Group
: any individual, excluding an Altria Transferee, who (i), as of the close of business on the Distribution Date, is either employed by, or on leave of absence (as defined by the personnel policies of the PMI Group) from, a member of the PMI Group; (ii) is a Former PMI Group Employee; or (iii) is or becomes a PMI Transferee.
PMI Group Employee
:
PMI Group Plans
(i) the PMI Pension Plans;
(ii) the PMI Profit-Sharing Plans;
(iii) the PMI Welfare and Other Plans; and
(iv) the PMI Performance Incentive Plans.
: an option to acquire PMI Common Stock granted by PMI as of the Distribution Date under the PMI Performance Incentive Plan in partial substitution for the Altria Options.
PMI Option
 
: any company of the PMI Group whose eligible employees participated in the Altria Pension Plans and Altria Profit-Sharing Plans prior to January 1, 2008.
PMI Participating Company
: any of PMI Retirement Plan, the PMI Benefit Equalization Plan, the PMI Supplemental Management Plan for Salaried Employees, and any other qualified or non-qualified defined benefit plan or program that provides retirement income for U.S. payroll-based PMI Group Employees that is identified by PMI no later than the Distribution Date, all as in effect as of the time relevant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
PMI Pension Plans
: the PMI 2008 Performance Incentive Plan, or any other stock-based or other incentive plan for PMI Group Employees that is identified by PMI before the Distribution Date, all as in effect as of the time relevant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
PMI Performance Incentive Plans
: the Altria Pre-Adjustment Price multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the closing price of PMI Common Stock on the NYSE on the Distribution Date (as traded on the "when issued" market) and the denominator of which is the sum of the numerator plus the closing price of Altria Common Stock on the NYSE on the Distribution Date (as traded on the "when issued" market).
PMI Price
: any of the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan, the PMI Benefit Equalization Plan, the PMI Supplemental Management Plan for Salaried Employees, the Philip Morris Products Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan and any other qualified or non-qualified defined contribution plan or program that provides retirement income for U.S. payroll-based PMI Group Employees that is identified by PMI before the Distribution Date, all as in effect as of the time relevant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
PMI Profit-Sharing Plans
: restricted PMI Common Stock distributed as of the Distribution Date and subject to terms and conditions pursuant to hereof.
PMI Restricted Stock
Section 5.3(b)
: the investment option to be offered under the following Altria Profit-Sharing Plans: the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees, the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Tobacco Workers, the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Craft Employees and the investment option to be offered under the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan whose value in each case is based on the value of PMI Common Stock.
PMI Stock Investment Option
: all of the Subsidiaries of PMI.
PMI Subsidiaries
: any employee of a member of the Altria Group who will transfer employment to a member of the PMI Group on or after the Distribution Date, but on or prior to December 31, 2008.
PMI Transferee
: any plan, fund or program that provides health, medical, surgical, hospital or dental care, severance, survivor income, long-term
PMI Welfare and Other Plans
 
disability, cafeteria, flexible benefits or other welfare benefits or benefits in the event of sickness, accident or disability, or death benefits to PMI Group Employees, all as in effect as of the time relevant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
: the close of business on the date to be determined by Altria's Board of Directors as the record date for determining the holders of Altria Common Stock entitled to receive shares of PMI Common Stock pursuant to the Distribution.
Record Date
: the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
: the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any successor statute.
Securities Act
: the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor statute.
Securities Exchange Act
: with respect to any specified Person, any corporation or other legal entity of which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries controls or owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the stock or other equity interest entitled to vote on the election of members to the board of directors or similar governing body; , , for purposes of this Agreement, (1) the PMI Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be Subsidiaries of PMI; and (2) no member of the PMI Group shall be deemed to be a Subsidiary of any member of the Altria Group.
Subsidiary
provided
however
that
. All references in this Agreement to times of the day shall be to Richmond, Virginia time, except as otherwise specifically provided herein.
1.2
References to Time
.
2.1
Altria Group Employees
(a) . Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, to the exclusion of the PMI Group, the appropriate member of the Altria Group shall continue to be responsible for and pay, perform and discharge each and every of the employment, compensation and employee benefits Liabilities relating to the Altria Group Employees and Former PMI Group Employees described in clauses (iii) and (iv) of the definition of Former PMI Group Employees that arise from employment with the Altria Group, the Former Altria Group and the PMI Group before the Distribution Date and that arise with respect to Altria Group Employees from employment with the Altria Group on or after the Distribution Date, including each and every Liability arising under an Altria Group Plan or assumed pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (collectively, the "Altria Benefit Liabilities"); provided, however, that nothing shall preclude any Altria Pension Plan to reduce or eliminate any such Altria Benefit Liability by a Permissible Offset.
Obligations
(b) . As soon as practicable following the Distribution Date, PMI shall reimburse Altria in an amount equal to the present value of the
Reimbursement
 
Altria Benefit Liabilities retained by Altria with respect to Former PMI Group Employees described in clauses (iii) and (iv) of the definition of Former PMI Group Employees.
(c) . As of the Distribution Date, the service used to determine the eligibility for, the vested portion of and the amount of, any benefit under any Altria Group Plan of each Altria Group Employee shall not be less than the service that such Altria Group Employee earned with the Altria Group, the Former Altria Group and the PMI Group with respect to such Altria Group Plan to such date.
Crediting Service
.
2.2
PMI Group Employees
(a) . Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, to the exclusion of the Altria Group, the appropriate member of the PMI Group shall continue to be responsible for and pay, perform and discharge each and every of the employment, compensation and employee benefits Liabilities relating to PMI Group Employees (other than Former PMI Group Employees described in clauses (iii) and (iv) of the definition of Former PMI Group Employees) that arise from employment with the PMI Group, the Altria Group and the Former Altria Group before the Distribution Date and that arise with respect to PMI Group Employees from employment with the PMI Group on or after the Distribution Date, including each and every Liability arising under a PMI Group Plan or assumed pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (collectively, the "PMI Benefit Liabilities"); provided, however, that nothing shall preclude any PMI Pension Plan to reduce or eliminate any such PMI Benefit Liability by a Permissible Offset.
Obligations
(b) . As of the Distribution Date, the service used to determine the eligibility for, the vested portion of and the amount of, any benefit under any PMI Group Plan (including, for purposes of this subparagraph (b), any PMI Group employee benefit plan that provides retirement income, regardless of whether it covers only U.S. payroll-based PMI Group Employees) of each PMI Group Employee (including, for purposes of this subparagraph (b), any PMI Group employee, regardless of whether such employee is a U.S. payroll-based PMI Group Employee) shall not be less than the service that such PMI Group Employee earned with the Altria Group, the Former Altria Group and the PMI Group with respect to such PMI Group Plan to such date.
Crediting of Service
. The following principles shall apply.
3.1
PMI Group Plans
(a) . A member of the PMI Group has previously adopted and established the PMI Pension Plans for the benefit of eligible PMI Group Employees. PMI shall timely take all actions necessary to obtain a favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service that the PMI
PMI Pension Plans
 
Retirement Plan is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and the related trust forms part of a qualified plan and is therefore exempt from tax under Section 501(a) of the Code.
(b) .
Transfer of Assets
(i) . At or about the time of the establishment of the PMI Retirement Plan by a member of the PMI Group, Altria caused the trust under the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees to make a direct transfer of assets to the trust established under the PMI Retirement Plan. The value of the assets transferred and to be transferred from the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees to the trust under the PMI Retirement Plan was and will be the amount required to be transferred pursuant to Section 414() of the Code. Such amount was determined by the actuary for the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees and the PMI Retirement Plan. Any amount required to be transferred pursuant to this section shall be adjusted for (i) allocable gains and/or losses of the trust under the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees, (ii) benefit payments on behalf of the PMI Retirement Plan, and (iii) allocable expenses.
Prior Asset Transfer
l
(ii) .
Subsequent Asset Transfer
(A) As soon as practicable after December 31, 2008, or such earlier date that may be agreed upon by the Altria Group and the PMI Group, but in no event earlier than 30 days following the filing of Form 5310-A with the Internal Revenue Service, if required, Altria agrees to cause the trust under the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees to make a direct transfer (or transfers) of assets to the trust established under the PMI Retirement Plan in an amount determined by the actuary for the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees and agreed to by the actuary for the PMI Retirement Plan, equal to the amount required to be transferred pursuant to Section 414() of the Code with respect to those PMI Group Employees who were participants in the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees and for whom assets were not transferred pursuant to clause (i) hereof. The value of the assets to be transferred from the trust under the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees to the trust under the PMI Retirement Plan will be determined in accordance with Section 414() of the Code without regard to Section 414()(2) of the Code. The PMI Group similarly agrees to cause the trust under the Philip Morris International Retirement Plan to make a direct transfer (or transfers) of assets to the trust established under the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees in an amount determined by the actuary for the Philip Morris International Retirement Plan and agreed to by the actuary for the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees, equal to the amount required to be transferred pursuant to Section 414() of the Code with respect to those Altria Transferees who were participants in the Philip Morris International Retirement Plan and who transferred after the Distribution Date.
l
l
l
l
(B) Altria and PMI shall reasonably cooperate with each other in order to facilitate the foregoing provisions of this clause (ii).
 
(c) . The PMI Pension Plans shall provide that each PMI Group Employee (regardless of the date of employment with the PMI Group) shall be credited with eligibility and vesting service that is not less than the eligibility and vesting service that the PMI Group Employee had earned under the comparable or equivalent Altria Group Pension Plan.
Credit for Service with the Altria Group
(d) . No later than as of the Distribution Date, each PMI Group Plan shall provide that each PMI Group Employee (regardless of the date of employment with the PMI Group) shall be credited with eligibility and vesting service that is not less than the eligibility and vesting service that the PMI Group Employee had earned under the comparable or equivalent Altria Group Plan.
Credit under all other PMI Group Plans
(e) .
PMI Profit-Sharing Plans
(i) . PMI has previously adopted and established the PMI Profit-Sharing Plans with respect to eligible PMI Group Employees. PMI shall take all actions necessary to timely obtain a favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service that the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and the related trust forms part of a qualified plan and is therefore exempt from tax under Section 501(a) of the Code.
Creation and Qualification of Plans
(f) .
Transfer of Assets
(i) . Contemporaneously with the establishment of the PMI Profit-Sharing Plan, Altria caused the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees to make a direct transfer of assets from such plan to the trust established under the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan. The value of the assets transferred from the trust under the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees to the trust under the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan was determined in accordance with Section 414() of the Code, to be equal to the value of the accounts of the then identified PMI Group Employees.
Prior Asset Transfer
l
(ii) .
Subsequent Asset Transfer
(A) On or before April 30, 2008, but in no event earlier than 30 days following the filing of Form 5310-A with the Internal Revenue Service, if required, Altria agrees to cause the trust under the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees to make a direct transfer (or transfers) of assets to the trust established under the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan in an amount equal to the accounts of the PMI Group Employees for whom assets were not transferred pursuant to clause (i) hereof, except that Altria shall not cause the transfer of assets with respect to PMI Transferees who
 
have transferred to a member of the PMI Group after the Distribution Date, such assets to be retained in the trust under the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees pending further direction from the PMI Transferee. The value of the assets to be transferred will be determined in accordance with Section 414(l) of the Code.
(B) Altria and PMI shall reasonably cooperate with each other in order to facilitate the foregoing provisions of clause (ii).
(g) . PMI Group Employees shall be entitled to participate in the PMI Welfare and Other Plans in accordance with the Altria Group practices in effect as of the Distribution Date, provided, however, that nothing herein shall preclude PMI Group Employees from continuing to participate in Altria Group Welfare and Other Plans for the calendar year of the Distribution if mutually agreed to by PMI and Altria.
PMI Welfare and Other Benefits
(h) . PMI has adopted the PMI Deferred Fee Plan for Non-Employee Directors and the PMI Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors effective as of January 29, 2008. Effective as of the Distribution Date, PMI shall assume, under the PMI directors' plans, the liability for deferred amounts under the Altria Group, Inc. Deferred Fee Plan for Non-Employee Directors, the Altria Group, Inc. Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, and the Altria Group, Inc. Unit Plan for Incumbent Non-Employee Directors with respect to each individual who is a member of the Board of Directors of Altria in 2008 before the Distribution Date and who is a member of the Board of Directors of PMI on the Distribution Date. As soon as practicable following the Distribution Date, Altria shall pay to PMI an amount equal to such liability determined as of the close of business on the Distribution Date.
PMI Directors' Plans
. The following principles shall apply to any PMI Transferee. Except as specifically noted in this Agreement as otherwise agreed in writing by the parties, each PMI Transferee will become, or continue to be, eligible upon transfer for the rights and benefits of similarly situated PMI Group Employees.
4.1
PMI Transferees
(a) . No member of the PMI Group shall cause any amendments to be made to the PMI Group Plans or any policies regarding the PMI Group Plans (other than amendments to provide for Permissible Offsets) to be implemented that have the direct or indirect effect of treating the PMI Transferees less favorably than the other PMI Group Employees similarly situated in seniority and job responsibilities.
Amendments
(b) .
Profit-Sharing Plans
(i) . As soon as administratively practicable following the date on which the PMI Transferee transfers, the PMI Transferee shall be eligible to commence participation in the appropriate PMI Profit-Sharing Plan. Any service requirements contained in such PMI Profit-Sharing Plan with respect to eligibility to participate generally or eligibility to share in any employer contributions thereunder shall be waived for the PMI Transferee.
Participation
(c) . If any PMI Transferee is transferred to the PMI Group after the Distribution Date but on or prior to December 31
Company Contribution for PMI Transferee
st
of the calendar year in which the Distribution Date occurs and would otherwise be eligible for a company contribution (within the meaning of the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees) under the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees for that calendar year, the appropriate member of the Altria Group will contribute (or credit, as applicable) to each such PMI Transferee's account in the Altria
 
Profit-Sharing Plans the pro-rated amount of any employer contribution to which the PMI Transferee is entitled based on his compensation (as defined in the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees) received from an Altria Participating Company through the date of transfer and irrespective of whether such PMI Transferee is employed by the PMI Group on the last day of the calendar year in which he or she transferred. Any PMI Transferee who has an outstanding loan from the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees as of the date of transfer to PMI may continue to repay such loan in accordance with the terms of such Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees.
. The following principles shall apply to any Altria Transferee. Except as specifically noted in this Agreement as otherwise agreed in writing by the parties, each Altria Transferee will become, or continue to be, eligible upon transfer for the rights and benefits of similarly situated Altria Group Employees.
4.2
Altria Transferees
(a) . No member of the Altria Group shall cause any amendments to be made to the Altria Group Plans or any policies regarding the Altria Group Plans (other than amendments to provide for Permissible Offsets) to be implemented that have the direct or indirect effect of treating the Altria Transferees less favorably than the other Altria Group Employees similarly situated in seniority and job responsibilities.
Amendments
(b) .
Profit-Sharing Plan
(i) . As soon as administratively practicable following the date on which the Altria Transferee transfers, the Altria Transferee shall be eligible to commence participation in the appropriate Altria Profit-Sharing Plan. Any service requirements contained in such Altria Profit-Sharing Plan with respect to eligibility to participate generally to share in any employer contributions thereunder shall be waived for the Altria Transferee.
Participation
(c) . If any Altria Transferee is transferred to the Altria Group after the Distribution Date but on or prior to December 31
Company Contribution for Altria Transferee
st
of the calendar year in which the Distribution Date occurs and would otherwise be eligible for a company contribution (within the meaning of the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan) under the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for that calendar year, the appropriate member of the PMI Group will contribute (or credit, as applicable) to each such Altria Transferee's account in the PMI Profit-Sharing Plans the pro-rated amount of any employer contribution to which the Altria Transferee is entitled based on his compensation (as defined in the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan) received from a Participating Company (as defined in the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan) through the date of transfer and irrespective of whether such Altria Transferee is employed by the Altria Group on the last day of the calendar year in which he transferred. Any Altria Transferee who has an outstanding loan from the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan as of the date of transfer to the Altria Group may continue to repay such loan in accordance with the terms of such PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan.
 
. As soon as practicable following the Distribution Date, Altria shall pay to PMI an amount representing the excess of the reasonably estimated present values of (a), with respect to certain employees of the Altria Group scheduled to transfer to the PMI Group, (i) liabilities accrued for financial reporting purposes for post-retirement medical and life insurance benefits and certain other agreed post-employment benefits as of December 31, 2007, (ii) defined benefit obligations under Altria's Benefit Equalization Plan and Altria's Supplemental Management Employees' Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2007 (less relevant offsets for amounts previously paid pursuant to the Altria Secular Trust Program and the Altria Executive Trust Arrangement) plus (iii) those target payments that would reasonably be anticipated to be earned, assuming continued payment of target payments, during such employees' service with PMI no later than December 31, 2012 that are in lieu of the increase in the value of benefits with respect to service before January 1, 2008 to which the transferees would have become entitled (assuming continued employment) as a result of attaining early retirement eligibility, had they been covered by Altria's Benefit Equalization Plan and Altria's Supplemental Management Employees' Retirement Plan, over (b) the results of similar calculations for post-retirement medical, life insurance and other post-employment benefit liabilities, defined benefit obligations and anticipated target payments to be paid by Altria with respect to an employee of the PMI Group who transferred to the Altria Group in anticipation of the Distribution and any other mutually agreed employees of the PMI Group scheduled to transfer to the Altria Group.
4.3
Payments
.
5.1
Altria Options
(a) . Each Altria Option shall be adjusted in the manner described below, effective as of the time of the Distribution, so that each Altria Option holder shall hold Adjusted Altria Options and PMI Options in lieu of the Altria Options previously held. The following procedure shall be applied to each grant of Altria Options with the same grant date and exercise price held by each Altria Option holder. For the avoidance of doubt, the term "exercise price" refers to the amount payable by an option holder in order to acquire shares pursuant to a stock option award.
Adjustment Methodology
(i) The Adjusted Altria Options shall have an exercise price equal to the Altria Post-Adjustment Price multiplied by the Option Conversion Ratio. The number of Adjusted Altria Options shall equal the number of Altria Options.
(ii) The PMI Options shall have an exercise price equal to the PMI Price multiplied by the Option Conversion Ratio. The number of PMI Options shall equal the number of Altria Options. If the resulting aggregate Intrinsic Value of the Adjusted Altria Options and PMI Options is less than the Intrinsic Value of the Altria Options, then the difference shall be paid to the option holder in cash as soon as practicable following the Distribution Date. If the resulting aggregate Intrinsic Value of the Adjusted Altria Options and PMI Options is greater than the Intrinsic Value of the Altria Options, then the number of PMI Options shall be reduced until the aggregate Intrinsic Value of the Adjusted Altria
 
Options and PMI Options is less than or equal to the Intrinsic Value of the Altria Options, and any difference shall be paid to the option holder in cash as soon as practicable following the Distribution Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Intrinsic Value of the Altria Options is negative, only the first two sentences of this shall be applied. The cash payment described above shall be made by Altria to individuals who are Non-PMI Group employees on the Distribution Date (or individuals no longer performing services for the Non-PMI Group or the PMI Group but whose last employment was with the Non-PMI Group), and by PMI to individuals who are PMI Group employees on the Distribution Date (or individuals no longer performing services for the Non-PMI Group or the PMI Group but whose last employment was with the PMI Group).
Section 5.1(a)(ii)
(iii) The calculation described in the preceding sentence shall be applied using the rounding conventions determined by Altria to carry out the purpose of this .
Section 5.1
(b) . Altria will adjust the exercise price of the Altria Options to become Adjusted Altria Options pursuant to the Altria Performance Incentive Plan. After the Distribution Date, Adjusted Altria Options, regardless of by whom held, shall be settled by Altria pursuant to the Altria Performance Incentive Plan. PMI will issue the PMI Options pursuant to the PMI Performance Incentive Plan. After the Distribution Date, PMI Options, regardless of by whom held, shall be settled by PMI pursuant to the PMI Performance Incentive Plan.
Issuing Entity and Settlement
(c) . The Adjusted Altria Options and the PMI Options shall have terms that are substantially identical to the terms of the Altria Options, , , (i) the Adjusted Altria Options shall provide that individuals who are employees of the PMI Group on the Distribution Date or who are PMI Transferees shall continue while employed by the PMI Group to be treated as employees of an Altria Affiliate solely for purposes of determining the exercise period under the option agreements; (ii) the PMI Options shall provide that individuals who are employees of the Non-PMI Group on the Distribution Date or who are Altria Transferees shall continue while employed by the Non-PMI Group to be treated as employees of a PMI Affiliate solely for purposes of determining the exercise period under the option agreements; and (iii) the PMI Options shall refer to both PMI and members of the Non-PMI Group as appropriate to effectuate the intent of this including references to the Non-PMI Group disability and retirement plans.
Option Agreement Terms
provided
however
that
Section 5.1
(d) . As soon as practicable following the Distribution Date, Altria shall pay to PMI the Fair Value of the PMI Options held by individuals who are Non-PMI Group employees on the Distribution Date (or individuals no longer performing services for the Non-PMI Group or the PMI Group but whose last employment was with the Non-PMI Group) and PMI shall pay to Altria the Fair Value of the Adjusted Altria Options held by individuals who are PMI Group employees on the Distribution Date (or individuals no longer performing services for the Non-PMI Group or the PMI Group but whose last employment was with the PMI Group). The parties shall settle the obligations of the preceding sentence in cash on a net basis such that the party required to pay the greater amount to the other shall pay the difference between the two amounts to the other.
Consideration
 
. Upon the Distribution Date, PMI shall assume the liability for Kraft SARs held by individuals who are employees of the PMI Group on the Distribution Date (or individuals no longer performing services for the Non-PMI Group or the PMI Group but whose last employment was with the PMI Group). PMI shall settle such Kraft SARs upon exercise and assume all other obligations under such Kraft SARs. Altria and PMI shall amend such Kraft SARs effective as of the Distribution Date to replace references to Altria with references to PMI and otherwise as appropriate to effectuate the intent of this Section 5.2.
5.2
Kraft SARs Issued by Altria
.
5.3
Restricted Stock and pre-January 31, 2007 Deferred Stock
(a) . Pursuant to the Distribution, each holder of Altria Restricted Stock will receive from Altria as of the time of the Distribution shares of PMI Common Stock in the same manner and based on the same ratio as other shareholders of Altria Common Stock. Such PMI Common Stock shall be subject to the same vesting requirements and dates and other terms and conditions as the Altria Restricted Stock to which it relates (including the right to receive all dividends or other distributions paid on PMI Common Stock). Effective at the time of the Distribution, each holder of Altria Deferred Stock that was granted before January 31, 2007 shall receive a number of PMI Deferred Stock shares based on the same ratio as shareholders of Altria Common Stock. Such PMI Deferred Stock shall be subject to the provisions of Section 5.4(b) through Section 5.4(e).
Adjustment
(b) . The PMI Restricted Stock shall have the same terms as the Altria Restricted Stock; ,, (i) the Altria Restricted Stock shall provide that individuals who are employees of the PMI Group on the Distribution Date or who are PMI Transferees shall continue to be treated while so employed as employees of an Altria Affiliate for purposes of continued vesting in the restricted stock; (ii) the PMI Restricted Stock shall provide that individuals who are employees of the Non-PMI Group on the Distribution Date or who are Altria Transferees shall continue to be treated while so employed as employees of a PMI Affiliate for purposes of continued vesting in the restricted stock; and (iii) the PMI Restricted Stock shall refer to both PMI and members of the Non-PMI Group as appropriate to effectuate the intent of this .
Restricted Stock Agreement Terms
provided
however
that
Section 5.3
(c) . If a holder of PMI Restricted Stock forfeits such stock under the terms of the PMI Restricted Stock, the forfeited stock shall be returned to PMI, not Altria. In consideration of the anticipated receipt of such forfeitures, PMI shall pay in cash to Altria as soon as practicable following the Distribution Date the anticipated value of forfeitures attributable to PMI Restricted Stock held by individuals who are Non-PMI Group employees on the Distribution Date. In addition, PMI shall pay in cash to Altria as soon as practicable following the Distribution Date the value of the Altria Restricted Stock held by the PMI Group employees on the
Forfeiture of PMI Stock and Consideration
 
Distribution Date. The anticipated value of the PMI Restricted Stock that may be forfeited by holders and returned to PMI shall be determined using the PMI Price and the forfeiture assumption used for Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123(R) purposes in Altria's most recent quarterly or annual financial reporting prepared before the Distribution Date for forfeitures of Altria Restricted Stock. The value of the Altria Restricted Stock shall be equal to the Altria Pre-Adjustment Price of the underlying Altria shares, reduced by assumed forfeitures based on the assumptions used for Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123(R) purposes in Altria's most recent quarterly or annual financial reporting prepared before the Distribution Date for forfeitures of Altria Restricted Stock.
.
5.4
Deferred Stock
(a) . Effective at the time of the Distribution, each holder of Altria Deferred Stock that was granted on or after January 31, 2007 and before January 30, 2008 shall receive a number of PMI Deferred Stock shares based on the same ratio as holders of Altria Common Stock. Effective at the time of the Distribution, each holder of Altria Deferred Stock that was granted on or after January 30, 2008 shall receive (i) in the case of a holder who is an employee of the Non-PMI Group on the Distribution Date, additional Altria Deferred Stock, such that following the Distribution Date the holder will have the number of shares of Altria Deferred Stock equal to the number of shares of Altria Deferred Stock held before the Distribution multiplied by the ratio of the Altria Pre-Adjustment Price to the Altria Post-Adjustment Price; and (ii) in the case of a holder who is a PMI Group Employee on the Distribution Date, PMI Deferred Stock in substitution for such holder's Altria Deferred Stock, such that following the Distribution Date the holder will have the number of shares of PMI Deferred Stock equal to the number of shares of Altria Deferred Stock held before the Distribution multiplied by the ratio of the Altria Pre-Adjustment Price to the PMI Price. Any fractional shares of Altria or PMI Deferred Stock resulting from the adjustment in the preceding sentence shall be paid to the holder in cash as soon as practicable following the Distribution Date; , , with respect to any individual holding Deferred Stock that is subject to Code Section 409A, any fractional shares of Altria or PMI Deferred Stock shall instead be rounded up to a whole share of Altria or PMI Deferred Stock. The cash payment described above shall be made by Altria to individuals who are Non-PMI Group employees on the Distribution Date, and by PMI to individuals who are PMI Group employees on the Distribution Date.
Adjustment
provided
however
that
(b) . After the Distribution Date, Altria shall be responsible for any cash payments in lieu of dividends required pursuant to the terms of the Altria Deferred Stock, and such Altria Deferred Stock, regardless of by whom held, shall be settled by Altria pursuant to the Altria Performance Incentive Plan. PMI will issue PMI Deferred Stock pursuant to the PMI Performance Incentive Plan. After the Distribution Date, PMI shall be responsible for any cash payments in lieu of dividends required pursuant to the terms of the PMI Deferred Stock, and such deferred stock, regardless of by whom held, shall be settled by PMI pursuant to the PMI Performance Incentive Plan.
Issuing Entity and Settlement
 
(c) . The PMI Deferred Stock shall have the same terms as the Altria Deferred Stock, , , (i) the Altria Deferred Stock shall provide that individuals who are employees of the PMI Group on the Distribution Date or who are PMI Transferees shall continue to be treated while so employed as employees of an Altria Affiliate for purposes of continued vesting in the deferred stock; (ii) the PMI Deferred Stock shall provide that individuals who are employees of the Non-PMI Group on the Distribution Date or who are Altria Transferees shall continue to be treated while so employed as employees of a PMI Affiliate for purposes of continued vesting in the deferred stock; and (iii) the PMI Deferred Stock shall refer to both PMI and members of the Non-PMI Group as appropriate to effectuate the intent of this .
Deferred Stock Agreement Terms
provided
however
that
Section 5.4
(d) . As soon as practicable following the Distribution Date, Altria shall pay to PMI the value of the PMI Deferred Stock held by individuals who are Non-PMI Group employees on the Distribution Date and PMI shall pay to Altria the value of the Altria Deferred Stock held by individuals who are PMI Group employees on the Distribution Date. The parties shall settle the obligations of the preceding sentence in cash on a net basis such that the party required to pay the greater amount to the other shall pay the difference between the two amounts to the other. For purposes of this , the value of the Altria Deferred Stock or PMI Deferred Stock shall be determined based on the Altria Post-Adjustment Price and the PMI Price, respectively, reduced by assumed forfeitures based on the assumptions used for Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123(R) purposes in Altria's most recent quarterly or annual financial reporting prepared before the Distribution Date for forfeitures of Altria Deferred Stock.
Consideration
Section 5.4(d)
(e) . Altria shall reimburse any Altria Group employee, and PMI shall reimburse any PMI Group employee, who becomes liable for income taxes with respect to Altria or PMI Deferred Stock earlier or in an amount greater than would have been the case absent the implementation of or in an amount equal to the excess of (i) any income taxes to which such employee becomes liable over (ii) the present value of such income taxes had such income taxes been paid at such time as the Altria or PMI Deferred Stock would otherwise have been subject to income taxes, assuming, for purposes of determining present value, the same value for Deferred Stock used for purposes of clause (i) of this sentence and a discount rate equal to the weighted average discount rate used for Altria's domestic pension plans at December 31, 2007, which was 6.2%. Any such reimbursement shall be further adjusted to hold the employee harmless from all additional taxes on the reimbursement payment itself. The amounts payable pursuant to this shall be calculated using reasonable assumptions (in addition to those specified above) as may be determined by the third-party accounting firm or firms selected by the party responsible for the reimbursement.
Taxes
Section 5.3(a)
Section 5.4(a)
Section 5.4(e)
5.5
Existing Kraft Equity Compensation
.
(a) . As soon as practicable following the Distribution Date, PMI shall pay to Altria the Fair Value of the Existing Kraft Options held by individuals who are PMI Group employees on the Distribution Date (or individuals no longer
Consideration
 
performing services for the Non-PMI Group or the PMI Group, but whose last employment was with PMI Group). As soon as practicable following the Distribution Date, PMI shall also pay to Altria the value of Existing Kraft Restricted Stock and the Existing Kraft Deferred Stock held by individuals who are PMI Group employees on the Distribution Date (or individuals no longer performing services for the Non-PMI Group or the PMI Group but whose last employment was with the PMI Group). The value of the Existing Kraft Restricted Stock and Existing Kraft Deferred Stock shall be determined based on a Kraft stock price of $31.66, and reduced by assumed forfeitures based on the assumptions used for purposes of Section 4.4(d) of the Employees Matters Agreement by and between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft with respect to Kraft Deferred Stock held by Altria Group Employees.
(b) . Equity compensation issued by Kraft before the Distribution Date shall provide that individuals who are PMI Group Employees on the Distribution Date shall continue while employed by the PMI Group to be treated as employees of a member of the Kraft Group for purposes of determining the exercise period of Existing Kraft Options and continued vesting in Existing Kraft Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock.
Employment Treatment
. Any payments to be made by PMI to Altria under this Article V with respect to Equity Compensation shall be reduced by payments previously made by PMI to Altria with respect to such Equity Compensation in the normal course of business before the Distribution Date.
5.6
Payments Previously Made By PMI
.
5.7
Other
(a) .
Administration and Withholding
(i) Altria and PMI agree that UBS Financial Services Inc. shall be the administrator and recordkeeper for the Adjusted Altria Options, PMI Options, Kraft SARs, Altria Restricted Stock, PMI Restricted Stock, Altria Deferred Stock and PMI Deferred Stock for the life of the options, restricted stock and deferred stock, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise.
(ii) Altria will be responsible for all payroll taxes, withholding and reporting with respect to Equity Compensation of Altria Group employees (or individuals no longer performing services for the Non-PMI Group or PMI Group but whose last employment was with the Altria Group). PMI will be responsible for all payroll taxes, withholding and reporting with respect to Equity Compensation of PMI Group employees (or individuals no longer performing services for the Non-PMI Group or the PMI Group but whose last employment was with the PMI Group). Altria and PMI agree to designate the other party as an agent for withholding pursuant to IRS Revenue Procedure 70-6 and to accept such designation to effectuate the intent of this .
Section 5.7(a)
(iii) Upon the exercise of an Adjusted Altria Option or PMI Option held by Altria Group or PMI Group employees (or individuals no longer
 
performing services for the Non-PMI Group or PMI Group but whose last employment was with the Altria Group or PMI Group), the exercise price shall be remitted in cash by the option administrator to the issuer of the option (Altria or PMI, as applicable) and the applicable withholding shall be remitted in cash by the option administrator to the entity (Altria or PMI, as applicable) responsible for payroll taxes, withholding and reporting with respect to the option. Upon vesting or payment, as applicable, of Altria and PMI Restricted Stock, Altria and PMI Deferred Stock and Kraft SARs held by Altria Group or PMI Group employees (or individuals no longer performing services for the Non-PMI Group or PMI Group but whose last employment was with the Altria Group or PMI Group), the applicable withholding shall be remitted in cash by the administrator to the entity (Altria or PMI, as applicable) responsible for payroll taxes, withholding and reporting with respect to the Restricted or Deferred Stock or Kraft SARs. To the extent necessary to provide the withholding amount in cash to the entity responsible for payroll taxes, withholding, and reporting, the issuer of the applicable Equity Compensation shall provide the withholding amount in cash.
(iv) With respect to dividends on PMI Restricted Stock or dividend equivalents on PMI Deferred Stock payable by PMI to an Altria Group employee, PMI shall make such payments to Altria, and Altria, as an agent for PMI, shall make such payments to its employees and former employees and shall be responsible for payroll taxes, withholding and reporting in accordance with this . With respect to dividends on Altria Restricted Stock or dividend equivalents on Altria Deferred Stock payable by Altria to a PMI Group employee, Altria shall make such payments to PMI, and PMI, as an agent for Altria, shall make such payments to its employees and former employees and shall be responsible for payroll taxes, withholding and reporting in accordance with this .
Section 5.7(a)
Section 5.7(a)
(v) PMI will cooperate with Kraft to establish appropriate procedures consistent with this for tax withholding, remitting withholding taxes, payroll taxes, dividends, dividend equivalents, fractional shares and exercise prices to the appropriate party, and tax reporting, including, to the extent necessary, withholding agency designations pursuant to IRS Revenue Procedure 70-6, with respect to (A) PMI Options, PMI Restricted Stock and PMI Deferred Stock of employees of the Kraft Group (or individuals no longer performing services for the Kraft Group, the Non-PMI Group or the PMI Group but whose last employment was with the Kraft Group) and (B) Existing Kraft Options, Existing Kraft Restricted Stock and Existing Kraft Deferred Stock of PMI Group employees (or individuals no longer performing services for the Kraft Group, the Non-PMI Group or the PMI Group but whose last employment was with the PMI Group).
Section 5.7(a)
(vi) If, after the Distribution Date, Altria or PMI identify an administrative error in the individuals identified as holding Equity Compensation, the amount of Equity Compensation so held, the vesting level of such Equity Compensation, or any other similar error, Altria and PMI shall mutually cooperate
 
in taking such actions as are necessary or appropriate to place, as nearly as reasonable practicable, the individual and Altria and PMI in the position in which they would have been had the error not occurred.
(b) . For purposes of this Article V only, if an individual is, by mutual agreement between the parties, scheduled to transfer employment shortly after the Distribution Date between the PMI Group and the Altria Group, such individual shall be treated as employed on the Distribution Date by the entity to which he or she is scheduled to transfer.
Scheduled Transfers
(c) . With respect to the Equity Compensation held by individuals who are Altria Group employees at the time the Equity Compensation becomes taxable and individuals who are not employees of the PMI Group or Non-PMI Group at such time but were last employees of the Altria Group, Altria shall claim any federal, state and/or local tax deductions after the Distribution Date, and PMI shall not claim such deductions. With respect to the Equity Compensation held by individuals who are employees of the PMI Group at the time the Equity Compensation becomes taxable and individuals who are not employees of the PMI Group or Non-PMI Group at such time but were last employees of the PMI Group, PMI shall claim any federal, state and/or local tax deductions after the Distribution Date, and Altria shall not claim such deductions. If either Altria or PMI determines in its reasonable judgment that there is a substantial likelihood that a tax deduction that was assigned to Altria or PMI pursuant to this will instead be available only to the other party (whether as a result of a determination by the Internal Revenue Service, a change in the Code or the regulations or guidance thereunder, or otherwise), it will notify the other party and both parties will negotiate in good faith to resolve the issue in accordance with the following principle: the party entitled to the deduction shall pay to the other party an amount that places the other party in a financial position equivalent to the financial position the party would have been in had the party received the deduction as intended under this . Such amount shall be paid within 90 days of filing the last tax return necessary to make the determination described in the preceding sentence.
Tax Deductions
Section 5.7(c)
Section 5.7(c)
(d) . If Altria determines in its reasonable judgment that any action required under this Article IV will not achieve the intended tax, accounting and legal results, including, without limitation, the intended results under Code Section 409A and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123(R), then at the request of Altria, PMI and Altria shall mutually cooperate in taking such actions as are necessary or appropriate to achieve such results, or most nearly achieve such results if the originally-intended results are not fully attainable.
Intended Results; Tax Benefit
(e) . PMI shall register the PMI Common Stock relating to the PMI Options and PMI Deferred Stock and make any necessary filings with the appropriate Governmental Authorities as required under U.S. and foreign securities Laws.
Registration
 
.
6.1
Maintenance of Stock Investment Options
(a) . The PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan will be amended as of the Distribution Date:
PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan
(i) to provide that no new amounts may be contributed to the Altria Stock Investment Option whether through employee contribution, employer contribution, dividend payment or intra-plan transfers. PMI further will cause the Altria Stock Investment Option in the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan to be maintained until the fiduciary for the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan in determines that the maintenance of such Altria Stock Investment Option is no longer consistent with ERISA.
(ii) to provide that the Kraft Stock Investment Option in the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan will be maintained until the fiduciary for the Plan determines that the maintenance of such Kraft Stock Investment Option is no longer consistent with ERISA.
(iii) (A) to create a PMI Stock Investment Option; (B) to enable the PMI Stock Investment Option to receive shares of PMI Common Stock to be distributed in the Distribution on behalf of PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan participants; (C) to provide that, following the Distribution, new purchases of PMI Common Stock via an investment in the PMI Stock Investment Option will be permitted, whether through employee contribution, employer contribution, reinvestment of dividends on shares of PMI Common Stock or intra-plan transfer; and (D) to permit eligible employees to have any dividends on shares of PMI Common Stock paid to the eligible employee in accordance with Section 404(k) of the Code or paid to the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan and reinvested in PMI Common Stock. PMI further will cause the PMI Stock Investment Option in the PMI Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan to be maintained until the fiduciary for the Plan determines that the maintenance of such PMI Stock Investment Option is no longer consistent with ERISA.
(b) . Each of the Altria Profit-Sharing Plans that offer Altria Stock in the Altria Stock Investment Option as of the Distribution Date will be amended as of the Distribution Date: (A) to create a PMI Stock Investment Option; (B) to enable the PMI Stock Investment Option to receive shares of PMI Common Stock to be distributed in the Distribution on behalf of Altria Profit-Sharing Plan participants; and (C) to provide that, following the Distribution, no new amounts may be contributed to a PMI Stock Investment Option whether through employee contribution, employer contribution, dividend payment or intra-plan transfer. Altria further will cause the PMI Stock Investment Option in each of the Altria Profit-Sharing Plans that offer Altria Stock in the Altria Stock Investment Option as of the Distribution Date to be maintained until the fiduciary for the Altria Profit-Sharing Plan determines that the maintenance of such PMI Stock Investment Option is no longer consistent with ERISA.
Altria Profit-Sharing Plans
 
. As of the Distribution Date, the PMI Group Employees shall cease to be eligible to participate in the Altria Stock Purchase Plan, in accordance with the terms of such plan.
7.1
Termination of Participation
. Altria and PMI shall share, Altria shall cause each applicable member of the Altria Group to share, and PMI shall cause each applicable member of the PMI Group to share, with each other and their respective agents and vendors (without obtaining releases), all participant information necessary for the efficient and accurate administration of each of the Altria Group Plans and the PMI Group Plans, as well as the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement. Altria and PMI and their respective authorized agents shall, subject to applicable Laws on confidentiality, data protection and labor, be given reasonable and timely access to, and may make copies of, all information relating to the subjects of this Agreement in the custody of the other party, to the extent necessary for such administration. All participant information shall be provided in a manner and medium that is compatible with the data processing systems of Altria as in effect as of the Distribution Date, unless otherwise agreed to by Altria and PMI. Altria and PMI shall ensure that they each have in place appropriate technical and organizational security measures to protect the personal data of the transferring participants ("Personal Data"). Each of Altria and PMI shall comply fully with its obligations under applicable Laws as controller of any Personal Data and shall do all such things as may be necessary to discharge such obligations.
8.1
Sharing of Participant Information
. No provision of this Agreement or the Distribution Agreement shall be construed to create any right, or accelerate entitlement, to any compensation or benefit whatsoever on the part of any Person (other than parties thereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns), including any PMI Transferee, any Altria Transferee or other future, present, or former employee of Altria, a member of the Altria Group, PMI or a member of the PMI Group under any Altria Group Plan or PMI Group Plan or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing: (i) except as expressly provided in this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall preclude PMI or any member of the PMI Group, at any time after the Distribution Date, from amending, merging, modifying, terminating, eliminating, reducing or otherwise altering in any respect any PMI Group Plan, any benefit under any plan or any trust, insurance policy or funding vehicle related to any PMI Group Plan; and (ii) except as expressly provided in this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall preclude Altria or any member of the Altria Group, at any time after the Distribution modifying, terminating, eliminating, reducing or otherwise altering in any respect any Altria Group
8.2
No Third-Party Beneficiaries
 
Plan, any benefit under any plan or any trust, insurance policy or funding vehicle related to any Altria Group Plan. In no event shall any provision of this Agreement be deemed to amend any Altria Group Plan or PMI Group Plan.
.
8.3
Audit Rights with Respect to Information Provided
(a) Each of Altria and PMI, and their duly authorized representatives, shall have the right to conduct audits with respect to all information provided to it by the other party. The party conducting the audit (the "Auditing Party") shall have the sole discretion to determine the procedures and guidelines for conducting audits and the selection of audit representatives under this . The Auditing Party shall have the right to make copies of any records at its expense, subject to the confidentiality provisions set forth in the Distribution Agreement, which are incorporated by reference herein. The party being audited shall provide the Auditing Party's representatives with reasonable access during normal business hours to its operations, computer systems and paper and electronic files, and provide workspace to its representatives. After any audit is completed, the party being audited shall have the right to review a draft of the audit findings and to comment on those findings in writing within five business days after receiving such draft.
Section 8.3(a)
(b) The Auditing Party's audit rights under this shall include the right to audit, or participate in an audit facilitated by the party being audited, any Subsidiaries and Affiliates of the party being audited and any benefit providers and third parties with whom the party being audited has a relationship, or agents of such party, to the extent any such persons are affected by or addressed in this Agreement (collectively, the "Non-parties"). The party being audited shall, upon written request from the Auditing Party, provide an individual (at the Auditing Party's expense) to supervise any audit of a Non-party. The Auditing Party shall be responsible for supplying, at the Auditing Party's expense, additional personnel sufficient to complete the audit in a reasonably timely manner. The responsibility of the party being audited shall be limited to providing, at the Auditing Party's expense, a single individual at each audited site for purposes of facilitating the audit.
Section 8.3(b)
. Altria and PMI each acknowledge that actions required to be taken pursuant to this Agreement may be subject to fiduciary duties or standards of conduct under ERISA or other applicable law, and no party shall be deemed to be in violation of this Agreement if it fails to comply with any provisions hereof based upon its good faith determination that to do so would violate such a fiduciary duty or standard. Each party shall be responsible for taking such actions as are deemed necessary and appropriate to comply with its own fiduciary responsibilities.
8.4
Fiduciary Matters
. To the extent any provision of this Agreement is contrary to the provisions of any collective bargaining agreement to which Altria or PMI or their respective Affiliates is a party, the terms of such collective bargaining agreement shall prevail. Should any provisions of this Agreement be deemed to relate to a topic determined by an appropriate authority to be a mandatory subject of collective bargaining, Altria or PMI may be obligated to bargain with the union representing affected employees concerning those subjects.
8.5
Collective Bargaining
 
. If any provision of this Agreement is dependent on the consent of any third party (such as a vendor or a union) and such consent is withheld, Altria and PMI shall use their reasonable best efforts to implement the applicable provisions of this Agreement to the full extent practicable. If any provision of this Agreement cannot be implemented due to the failure of such third party to consent, Altria and PMI shall negotiate in good faith to implement the provision in a mutually satisfactory manner. The phrase "reasonable best efforts" as used herein shall not be construed to require the incurrence of any non-routine or unreasonable expense or Liability or the waiver of any right.
8.6
Consent of Third Parties
. All Liabilities retained or assumed by or allocated to Altria or the Altria Group pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be Altria Group Liabilities for purposes of Article III of the Distribution Agreement, and all Liabilities retained or assumed by or allocated to PMI or the PMI Group pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be PMI Group Liabilities for the purposes of Article III of the Distribution Agreement.
9.1
Indemnification
. Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed by the parties or any third party as creating the relationship of principal and agent, partnership or joint venture between or among the parties, it being understood and agreed that no provision contained herein, and no act of the parties, shall be deemed to create any relationship between the parties other than the relationship set forth herein.
10.1
Relationship of Parties
. Each of Altria and PMI shall cause to be performed, and hereby guarantees the performance of, all actions, agreements and obligations set forth in this Agreement to be performed by a member of the Altria Group or a member of the PMI Group.
10.2
Affiliates
PMI will coordinate with Altria all written and electronic communications to the PMI Group employees regarding the terms of this Employee Matters Agreement to assure that all such communications are uniform, consistent and accurate.
10.3 .
Employee Communications
. The following provisions of the Distribution Agreement are hereby incorporated herein by reference, and unless otherwise expressly specified herein, such provisions shall apply as if fully set forth herein (references in this to an "Article" or "Section" shall mean Articles or Sections of the Distribution Agreement, and, except as expressly set forth below, references in the material incorporated herein by reference shall be references to
10.4
Incorporation of Distribution Agreement Provisions
Section 10.4
 
the Distribution Agreement): Article III (relating to Mutual Releases and Indemnification); Article IV (relating to certain Additional Covenants); Article V (relating to Access to Information); Article VI (relating to Dispute Resolution); and Article IX (relating to Miscellaneous).
. To the extent not preempted by applicable federal law, this Agreement shall be governed by, construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia (other than the laws regarding the choice of laws and conflict of laws as to all matters), including matters of validity, construction, effect, performance and remedies , , the Arbitration Act shall govern the matter described in Article IX.
10.5
Governing Law
provided
however
that
. Except as provided in hereof, all references to Sections, Articles or Schedules contained herein mean Sections, Articles or Schedules of or to this Agreement, as the case may be, unless otherwise stated.
10.6
References
Section 10.4
 
, the parties have caused this Employee Matters Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
THIS TAX SHARING AGREEMENT dated as of March 28, 2008 (the "Agreement") is between Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation ("Altria"), and Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation ("PMI") (sometimes referred to herein individually as "Party", or together, as "Parties").
WHEREAS, Altria is the common parent corporation of an affiliated group of corporations within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code");
WHEREAS, PMI is a member of the affiliated group of corporations with respect to which Altria is the common parent corporation;
WHEREAS, as set forth in the Distribution Agreement by and between Altria and PMI, dated as of January 30, 2008 (the "Distribution Agreement"), and subject to the terms and conditions thereof, Altria will distribute on a pro rata basis to the holders of Altria common stock all of the outstanding shares of PMI common stock then owned by Altria (the "Distribution");
WHEREAS, the Distribution is intended to qualify as a tax-free distribution to Altria and its shareholders under Section 355 of the Code; and
WHEREAS, in contemplation of the Distribution, pursuant to which PMI (and its direct and indirect Subsidiaries) will cease to be a member of the affiliated group of corporations with respect to which Altria is the common parent corporation, the Parties hereto have determined to enter into this Agreement, setting forth their agreement with respect to certain tax matters;
NOW, THEREFORE in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants herein contained, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
1.01 . For the purposes of this Agreement, the terms set forth below shall have the following meanings.
General
"" means Altria and any direct or indirect Subsidiary of Altria that is, from time to time, a member of the affiliated group of corporations with respect to which Altria is the common parent corporation. For the avoidance of doubt, the Altria Consolidated Return Group includes, but is not limited to, any company that for any period prior to the execution of this Agreement was a direct or indirect Subsidiary of Altria and that during such period was eligible to join with Altria, with respect to Federal Income Taxes, in the filing of a consolidated United States Federal Income Tax return.
Altria Consolidated Return Group
"" means Altria and any direct or indirect Subsidiary of Altria that is not also a member of the PMI Group or otherwise a direct or indirect Subsidiary of PMI and that would be eligible, from time to time, to join with Altria, with respect to Federal Income Taxes, in the filing of a consolidated United States Federal Income Tax return and/or, with respect to Combined State Taxes, in the filing of a consolidated, combined or unitary income or franchise tax return. For the avoidance of doubt, the Altria U.S. Group includes, but is not limited to, any company that for any period prior to the execution of this Agreement was a direct or indirect Subsidiary of Altria and that during such period was eligible to join with Altria, with respect to Federal Income Taxes, in the filing of a consolidated United States Federal Income Tax return and, with respect to Combined State Taxes, in the filing of a consolidated, combined or unitary income or franchise tax return, but only if and to the extent that such company was not a member of the PMI Group during such period.
Altria U.S. Group
"" means with respect to any taxable period (or portion thereof) (i) the Federal Income Tax liability of the Altria Consolidated Return Group less the PMI Federal Income Tax Liability; (ii) the Altria Combined State Tax liability less the PMI Combined State Tax Liability; (iii) any other Tax imposed on any member of the Altria U.S. Group or, with respect to any taxable year, any other Tax imposed on any direct or indirect Subsidiary of Altria (excluding, however, the PMI Group and any direct or indirect Subsidiary of PMI) that is not a member of the Altria U.S. Group; and (iv) liability of any member of the Altria U.S. Group for the payment of any amounts of the type described in (i), (ii) or (iii) as a result of any express or implied obligation to indemnify any other person.
Altria U.S. Group Tax
"" means, with respect to each state or local taxing jurisdiction, any income or franchise tax payable to such state or local taxing jurisdiction in which a member of the PMI Group files tax returns with a member of the Altria U.S. Group on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis for purposes of such income or franchise tax.
Combined State Tax
"" shall mean the date on which the Distribution becomes effective.
Distribution Date
 
"" shall mean any Taxes imposed on, increase in Taxes incurred by, or reduction of a Tax Asset of Altria, and any Taxes of an Altria shareholder that are paid or reimbursed by Altria, together with any fines or penalties, pursuant to a Final Determination resulting from, or arising in connection with, the failure of the Distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code (including, without limitation, any Tax resulting from the application of Section 355(d) or Section 355(e) to the Distribution) or corresponding provisions of the laws of any other jurisdictions. Any Tax referred to in the immediately preceding sentence shall be determined using the highest applicable statutory corporate income tax rate for the relevant taxable period (or portion thereof).
Distribution Taxes
"" (and the correlative term "Effectively Realized") means, with respect to a tax saving or tax benefit, including from the use of any Tax Asset, the earliest to occur of (i) the receipt by Altria or PMI (or any other member of Altria U.S. Group or PMI Group) of cash from a Taxing Authority reflecting such tax saving or tax benefit, or (ii) the application of such tax saving or tax benefit to reduce any payments, including estimated tax payments, with respect to (A) the tax liability on a return of any of such entities or of any consolidated group of which any of such entities is a member, or (B) any other outstanding tax liability of any of such entities or of any such consolidated group, provided that any reference in this definition to tax shall include, without limitation, a reference to a recovery of statutory interest.
Effective Realization
"" means any Tax imposed under Subtitle A of the Code and any related interest and any penalties, additions to such Tax, or additional amounts imposed with respect thereto.
Federal Income Tax
"" shall mean (i) with respect to Federal Income Taxes, a "determination" as defined in Section 1313(a) of the Code or execution of an Internal Revenue Service Form 870-AD and, with respect to taxes other than Federal Income Taxes, any decision, judgment, decree or other order by a court of competent jurisdiction that, under applicable law, is not subject to further appeal, review or modification through proceedings or otherwise; (ii) a closing agreement or accepted offer in compromise under Sections 7121 or 7122 of the Code, or a comparable agreement under the laws of a State, local, or foreign taxing jurisdiction; (iii) the payment of tax by any member of the Altria Consolidated Return Group with respect to any item disallowed or adjusted by a Taxing Authority, provided that Altria determines that no action should be taken to recoup such payment; or (iv) any other final disposition, by mutual agreement of the Parties or by reason of the expiration of a statute of limitations or period for the filing of claims for refunds, amended returns, or appeals from adverse determinations.
Final Determination
"" shall mean, with respect to any taxable period (or portion thereof) in the Pre-Distribution Period, an amount of Combined State Taxes, including any interest, penalties and other additions to such taxes for such taxable year except to the extent attributable to Altria's negligence, determined by taking
PMI Combined State Tax Liability
 
the total separately computed state income or franchise tax liabilities of the PMI Group over the total separately computed state income or franchise tax liabilities of the Altria Consolidated Return Group multiplied by the combined state income or franchise tax liability of the Altria Consolidated Return Group.
"" shall mean, with respect to any financial statement year (or portion thereof) in the Pre-Distribution Period, the sum of the PMI Group's current federal income tax provision determined in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") recorded on the PMI Group's books and records and reported in the PMI Group's published financial statements.
PMI Current Federal Income Tax Provision
"" shall mean, with respect to any taxable period (or portion thereof) in the Pre-Distribution Period, the sum of the PMI Group's Federal Income Tax liability and other additions to such Taxes except to the extent attributable to Altria's negligence (as determined under the applicable principles of agency law rather than Section 6662 of the Code) for such taxable period (or portion thereof), computed as if the PMI Group were not and never were part of the Altria Consolidated Return Group, but rather were a separate affiliated group of corporations filing a consolidated United States Federal Income Tax return pursuant to Section 1501 of the Code (provided, however, that transactions with members of the Altria U.S. Group or between members of the PMI Group shall be reflected according to the provisions of the consolidated return regulations promulgated under the Code governing intercompany transactions). Such computation shall be made: (A) without regard to the income, deductions (including net operating loss and capital loss deductions) and credits in any year of any member of the Altria Consolidated Return Group that is not a member of the PMI Group, (B) by taking account of any Tax Asset of the PMI Group in accordance with Section 2.02(e) hereof, (C) with regard to net operating loss and capital loss carryforwards and carrybacks and minimum tax credits from earlier years of the PMI Group, (D) as though the highest rate of tax specified in Section 11(b) of the Code were the only rate set forth in that subsection, and (E) reflecting the positions, elections and accounting methods and periods used with respect to the PMI Group in preparing the Altria consolidated Federal Income Tax return.
PMI Federal Income Tax Liability
"" shall mean PMI and any direct or indirect Subsidiary of PMI that would be eligible, from time to time, to join with PMI, with respect to Federal Income Taxes, in the filing of a consolidated United States Federal Income Tax return and, with respect to Combined State Taxes, in the filing of a consolidated, combined or unitary income or franchise tax return if PMI were not a member of the Altria Consolidated Return Group. For the avoidance of doubt, the PMI Group includes, but is not limited to, any company that for any period prior to the execution of this Agreement was a direct or indirect Subsidiary of PMI and that during such period would have been eligible to join with PMI, with respect to Federal Income Taxes, in the filing of a consolidated United States Federal Income Tax return and, with respect to Combined
PMI Group
 
State Taxes, in the filing of a consolidated, combined or unitary income or franchise tax return if PMI were not a member of the Altria Consolidated Return Group, but only if and to the extent that such company was not a member of the Altria U.S. Group during such period.
"" means (i) PMI Federal Income Tax Liability; (ii) PMI Combined State Tax Liability; (iii) any other Tax imposed on any member of the PMI Group or, with respect to any taxable year, any other Tax imposed on any direct or indirect Subsidiary of PMI that is not a member of the PMI Group; and (iv) liability of any member of the PMI Group for the payment of any amounts of the type described in (i), (ii) or (iii) as a result of any express or implied obligation to indemnify any other person.
PMI Group Tax
"" means, for each state in which a combined state income tax return may be filed, either a formal combined state income tax return, or, in the alternative, a schedule on which the PMI Combined State Tax Liability is reflected.
PMI Pro Forma Combined State Return
"" means either a formal Form 1120, or, in the alternative, a schedule on which the PMI Federal Income Tax Liability is reflected.
PMI Pro Forma Federal Return
"" means any taxable period (or portion thereof) beginning after the close of business on the Distribution Date.
Post-Distribution Period
"" means any taxable period (or portion thereof) ending on or before the close of business on the Distribution Date.
Pre-Distribution Period
"" means (i) the private letter ruling received from the Internal Revenue Service regarding certain tax consequences of the Distribution, (ii) the request for private letter ruling submitted to the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the Distribution (including all supplemental submissions) and (iii) the tax opinion related to the Distribution delivered by Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP ("Tax Advisor"), including all exhibits to each, which contain, inter alia, information and representations provided by Altria and PMI in connection with the Distribution.
Ruling and Tax Opinion Documents
"" means any corporation or other legal entity (or any successor thereto) directly or indirectly "controlled", where "control" means the ownership of 50% or more of the ownership interests (by vote or value) of such corporation or other legal entity (or any successor thereto) or the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such corporation or other legal entity.
Subsidiary
 
"" or "" shall mean all national, federal, state (including, but not limited to the Ohio Commercial Activities tax or the Texas Margin tax), county, local, foreign or other taxes, levies, or imposts, including any net income, alternative or add-on minimum tax, gross income, gross receipts, sales, use, ad valorem, value added, transfer, franchise, profits, license, withholding, payroll, employment, excise, severance, stamp, capital stock, occupation, property, real property gains, social security or disability, environmental or windfall profit tax, premium, custom duty or other tax, governmental fee, or other like assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever, together with any interest, penalty, addition to tax or additional amount imposed by any Taxing Authority responsible for the imposition of any such tax (United States or non-United States).
Tax
Taxes
"" means any federal or state net operating loss, net capital loss, general business credit, foreign tax credit, charitable deduction, or any other loss, credit, deduction, or tax attribute which could reduce any Tax (including, without limitation, deductions, credits, alternative minimum net operating loss carryforwards related to alternative minimum taxes or additions to the basis of property).
Tax Asset
"" means any governmental authority (whether United States or non-United States, and including, without limitation, any state, municipality, political subdivision or governmental agency) responsible for the imposition of any Tax.
Taxing Authority
"" means any audit, review, examination, assessment, notice of deficiency or any other administrative or judicial proceeding with the purpose or effect of redetermining any Taxes (including any administrative or judicial review of any claim for refund).
Tax Contest
"" means qualification of the Distribution as tax-free under Section 355 of the Code.
Tax-Free Status
2.01 . For each taxable year of the Altria Consolidated Return Group for which a United States consolidated Federal Income Tax return is filed that includes any Pre-Distribution Period of the PMI Group, PMI shall pay to Altria an amount equal to the sum of the PMI Federal Income Tax Liability for such taxable year as shown on a PMI Pro Forma Federal Return. For each taxable year of the Altria Consolidated Return Group for which a Combined State Tax return is filed that includes any Pre-Distribution Period of the PMI Group, PMI shall pay to Altria an amount equal to the PMI Combined State Tax Liability for such taxable year as shown on a PMI Pro Forma Combined State Return.
General
 
2.02 .
Payment of Taxes
(a) . Not later than thirty days after the Distribution Date, PMI shall identify on its books the PMI Current Federal Income Tax Provision for that portion of the current quarter that ends on the Distribution Date, determined in accordance with United States GAAP, and shall transfer such amount to Altria within thirty days after the Distribution Date.
Estimated Payments
(b) . On a date that is at least thirty days prior to the due date for the Altria Consolidated Return Group's consolidated Federal Income Tax return for a taxable year to which Section 2.01 of this Agreement applies, PMI shall deliver to Altria a PMI Pro Forma Federal Return reflecting the PMI Federal Income Tax Liability on an estimated basis. On a date that is at least ten days prior to the due date for each Combined State Tax return for a taxable year to which Section 2.01 of this Agreement applies, PMI shall deliver to Altria a PMI Pro Forma Combined State Return (together with the PMI Pro Forma Federal Return, the "PMI Pro Forma Returns") reflecting the relevant PMI Combined State Tax Liability on an estimated basis. PMI's preparation and delivery of the PMI Pro Forma Federal Return shall include related schedules and returns, including, but not limited to, preparation of Form 1118 or in the alternative, a schedule reflecting what is on Form 1118, for purposes of computing any separate foreign tax credit limitation under Section 904(d) of the Code.
Preparation and Delivery of Estimated Pro Formas
(c) . On or before November 1 following the end of any taxable year to which Section 2.01 of this Agreement applies, Altria shall deliver to PMI a PMI Pro Forma Federal Return reflecting the PMI Federal Income Tax Liability. On or before December 15 following the end of any taxable year to which Section 2.01 of this Agreement applies, Altria shall deliver to PMI a PMI Pro Forma Combined State Return reflecting the relevant PMI Combined State Tax Liability. Altria's preparation and delivery of the PMI Pro Forma Federal Return hereunder shall include related schedules and returns, including, but not limited to, preparation of Form 1118 or in the alternative, a schedule reflecting what is on Form 1118, for purposes of computing any separate foreign tax credit limitation under Section 904(d) of the Code.
Preparation and Delivery of Final Pro Formas
(d) . On or before November 1 following the end of any taxable year to which Section 2.01 of this Agreement applies, PMI shall pay to Altria, or Altria shall pay to PMI, as appropriate, an amount equal to the difference, if any, between: (x) the PMI Federal Income Tax Liability reflected on the PMI Pro Forma Federal Return for such year; and (y) the aggregate amount of the payments of the PMI Current Federal Income Tax Provision for such year made pursuant to Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement. On or before December 15 following the end of any taxable year to which Section 2.01 of this Agreement applies, PMI shall pay to Altria the PMI Combined State Tax Liability as reflected on the PMI Pro Forma Combined State Return.
Reconciliation of Payments
 
(e) . If a PMI Pro Forma Return reflects a Tax Asset that may under applicable law be used to reduce a Federal Income Tax or Combined State Tax liability of the Altria U.S. Group for any taxable period, Altria shall pay to PMI, or shall reduce the amount owed by PMI to Altria by, an amount equal to the actual tax saving produced by such Tax Asset within thirty days after such tax saving has been Effectively Realized by the Altria U.S. Group. The amount of any such tax saving for any taxable period shall be the amount of the reduction in Taxes payable to a Taxing Authority with respect to such tax period, including with respect to any estimated Tax payments, as compared to the Taxes that would have been payable to a Taxing Authority by the Altria U.S. Group with respect to such tax period in the absence of such Tax Asset. To the extent PMI has been compensated for any Tax Asset prior to the filing of a final tax return for any year, including with respect to any estimated payments for such year, Altria shall pay to PMI, or PMI shall pay to Altria, as appropriate, the difference between the amount Effectively Realized with respect to each Tax Asset with respect to such interim payments and the amount Effectively Realized with respect to the filing of the final tax return.
Use of Tax Assets
2.03 .
Carrybacks from Post-Distribution Period
(a) Within thirty days after Effective Realization by the Altria Consolidated Return Group, Altria agrees to pay to PMI the actual tax benefit from the carryback of any Tax Asset of the PMI Group from a Post-Distribution Period. Such benefit shall be equal to (i) the amount of Federal Income Taxes or Combined State Taxes, as the case may be, that would have been payable (or of the Federal Income Tax or Combined State Tax refund actually receivable) by the Altria Consolidated Return Group for such period in the absence of such carryback, minus (ii) the amount of Federal Income Taxes or Combined State Taxes, as the case may be, actually payable for such period (or of the Federal Income Tax or Combined State Tax refund that would have been receivable) by the Altria Consolidated Return Group.
(b) If, subsequent to the payment by Altria to PMI of any amount pursuant to (or in accordance with the principles of) Section 2.03(a), there shall be a Final Determination that results in a disallowance or a reduction of the Tax Asset of the PMI Group so carried back, PMI shall repay to Altria, within thirty days after such Final Determination, any amount that would not have been payable to PMI pursuant to (or in accordance with the principles of) Section 2.03(a) of this Agreement had the amount of the tax benefit been determined in light of the Final Determination. In addition, PMI shall hold each member of the Altria U.S. Group harmless from any penalty or interest payable by any member of the Altria U.S. Group as a result of any such Final Determination. Any such amount shall be paid by PMI within thirty days of the payment by the Altria U.S. Group of any such penalty or interest.
 
2.04 .
Preparation of Returns
(a) For each taxable year to which Section 2.01 of this Agreement applies that the Altria Consolidated Return Group elects to file a consolidated Federal Income Tax return as permitted by Section 1501 of the Code or any Combined State Tax return, Altria shall prepare and file such return and any other returns, documents or statements required to be filed with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to the determination of the Federal Income Tax liability of the Altria Consolidated Return Group and with the appropriate Taxing Authorities with respect to the determination of the Combined State Tax liability of the Altria Consolidated Return Group. With respect to such return preparation, Altria shall not discriminate among any members of the Altria Consolidated Return Group. Altria shall have the right with respect to any consolidated Federal Income Tax returns or Combined State Tax returns that it has filed or will file to determine (i) the manner in which such returns, documents or statements shall be prepared and filed, including, without limitation, the manner in which any item of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit shall be reported; (ii) whether any extensions should be requested; and (iii) the elections that will be made by any member of the Altria Consolidated Return Group. Each member of the PMI Group hereby irrevocably appoints Altria as its agent and attorney-in-fact to take any action (including the execution of documents) Altria may deem necessary or appropriate to implement this Section 2.04.
(b) With respect to any Tax return other than a United States consolidated Federal Income Tax return that includes any Pre-Distribution Period of the PMI Group or any Combined State Tax return, the Party that bears indemnification responsibility under Article IV of this Agreement shall be responsible for the preparation and filing of such Tax return; provided, however, that in the preparation and filing of such Tax return, such Party shall not take any position (or make any election) that is inconsistent with any position or election made by Altria in connection with the preparation and filing of any United States consolidated Federal Income Tax return that includes any Pre-Distribution Period of the PMI Group or any Combined State Tax return.
3.01 .
Refunds
(a) If, with respect to any PMI Group Tax, Altria receives a refund, offset or credit, Altria shall remit to PMI within thirty days of Effective Realization the amount of such refund, offset or credit, together with any interest received thereon.
 
(b) If, with respect to any Altria U.S. Group Tax, PMI receives a refund, offset or credit, PMI shall remit to Altria within thirty days of Effective Realization the amount of such refund, offset or credit, together with any interest received thereon.
(c) Any payments required to be made by Sections 3.01(a) or 3.01(b) of this Agreement shall be paid net of any Tax liability to a Party resulting from such Party's receipt of such refund from the Taxing Authority.
4.01 .
General Indemnification
(a) Altria will indemnify each member of the PMI Group or any other direct or indirect Subsidiary of PMI against and hold it harmless from (1) any Altria U.S. Group Tax or any adjustments made by a Taxing Authority that would result in an increase in any Altria U.S. Group Tax; and (2) all liabilities, costs, expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable expenses of investigation and attorney's fees and expenses), losses, damages, assessments, settlements or judgments arising out of or incident to the imposition, assessment or assertion of any Tax or adjustment described in this subsection. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, Altria's indemnification responsibility for Distribution Taxes, if any, shall be determined solely under Section 4.02(a) of this Agreement.
(b) PMI will indemnify each member of the Altria U.S. Group or any other direct or indirect Subsidiary of Altria other than a member of the PMI Group or any other direct or indirect Subsidiary of PMI against and hold it harmless from (1) any PMI Group Tax, or any adjustments made by a Taxing Authority that would result in an increase in any PMI Group Tax, or any adjustments by a Taxing Authority that result in a disallowance or reduction of any Tax Asset of the PMI Group that was used to reduce any Altria U.S. Group Tax; and (2) all liabilities, costs, expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable expenses of investigation and attorney's fees and expenses), losses, damages, assessments, settlements or judgments arising out of or incident to the imposition, assessment or assertion of any Tax or adjustment described in this subsection. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, PMI's indemnification responsibility for Distribution Taxes, if any, shall be determined solely under Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement.
 
4.02 .
Indemnification for Distribution Taxes
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, Altria shall indemnify and hold harmless each member of the PMI Group or any other direct or indirect Subsidiary of PMI from and against (1) any and all Distribution Taxes that are not the responsibility of PMI pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (2) all liabilities, costs, expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable expenses of investigation and attorney's fees and expenses), losses, damages, assessments, settlements or judgments arising out of or incident to the imposition, assessment or assertion of any Tax or adjustment described in this subsection.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, PMI agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Altria U.S. Group or any other direct or indirect Subsidiary of Altria other than a member of the PMI Group or any other direct or indirect Subsidiary of PMI from and against (1) any and all Distribution Taxes resulting from or attributable to (i) any act or failure to act on the part of PMI (or any member of the PMI Group or any other direct or indirect Subsidiary of PMI) following the Distribution; or (ii) any breach by PMI (or any other member of PMI Group or any other direct or indirect Subsidiary of PMI) of any of the representations or covenants set forth in Articles V and VI of this Agreement or any representations with respect to PMI in the Ruling and Tax Opinion Documents and (2) all liabilities, costs, expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable expenses of investigation and attorney's fees and expenses), losses, damages, assessments, settlements or judgments arising out of or incident to the imposition, assessment or assertion of any Tax or adjustment described in this subsection.
4.03 . In the event that a Party is entitled to receive indemnification under this Article IV with respect to any Tax for which there has been a Final Determination, such Party ("Indemnified Party") shall send to the other Party ("Indemnifying Party") an invoice requesting payment accompanied by a statement describing in reasonable detail the amount owed and the particulars relating thereto. The Indemnifying Party shall pay to the Indemnified Party any payment owed under this Article IV within thirty days (or within another time period mutually agreed to by the Parties) after the receipt of the invoice for such payment.
Indemnification Payments
5.01 . Altria and PMI each represent that the information and representations with respect to Altria or PMI, as the case may be, that are included in the Ruling and Tax Opinion Documents are accurate and complete as of the date hereof.
Altria and PMI Representations
 
6.01 . Altria and PMI each covenant (1) to use their best efforts to verify that the foregoing representations made by it in Article V are accurate and complete as of the Distribution Date and (2) if, after the date hereof, either obtains information indicating, or otherwise becomes aware, that any such representations are or may be inaccurate or incomplete, promptly to inform Altria or PMI, as the case may be.
Altria and PMI Covenants
6.02 . PMI may take actions inconsistent with the representations in Section 5.01 of this Agreement and covenants in this Section 6.02 only if, prior to taking such action, PMI (1) provides notification, upon determining that it shall pursue such action, to Altria of its plans with respect to such action, and promptly responds to any inquiries made by Altria following such notification, and (2) obtains Altria's written consent to such action (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld). Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Altria consent shall not relieve PMI of any of its liabilities or obligations under this Agreement, including, but not limited to, any PMI indemnity obligation arising under Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement. PMI covenants to Altria that:
Specific PMI Covenants
(a) During the two-year period following the Distribution Date, PMI will not liquidate or merge or consolidate with any other person in one or more transactions pursuant to which the shareholders of the other person(s) in such transaction(s) hold directly or indirectly a forty percent or greater interest (by vote or value) in the combined company.
(b) During the two-year period following the Distribution Date, PMI and each of its Subsidiaries will not transfer all or substantially all of its assets in a transaction, including all or substantially all of the assets of PMI's active trade or business used to satisfy Section 355(b) of the Code.
(c) During the two-year period following the Distribution Date, PMI will continue the active conduct of its trade or business used to satisfy Section 355(b) of the Code.
(d) PMI will not redeem or repurchase PMI stock in a manner contrary to the requirements of Revenue Procedure 96-30 or in any other manner contrary to the representations made in the Ruling and Tax Opinion Documents.
(e) During the two-year period following the Distribution Date, PMI will not issue, in one or more transactions, PMI stock (or any instrument that is convertible or exchangeable into such PMI stock) that in the aggregate represents more than a forty percent interest (by vote or value) of PMI.
 
(f) During the two-year period following the Distribution Date, PMI will not enter into any negotiations, agreements, understandings, or arrangements with respect to transactions or events (including, without limitation, stock issuances, pursuant to the exercise of options or otherwise, option grants, capital contributions or acquisitions or a series of such transactions or events, but excluding the Distribution) that may alone or in the aggregate cause the Distribution to be treated as part of a plan (i) pursuant to which one or more persons would acquire directly or indirectly stock of PMI representing a forty percent or greater interest (by vote or value); or (ii) which would result in a transaction described in Section 6.02(a) above.
(g) PMI will not otherwise take any action or fail to take any other action, which action or failure to act may result in Distribution Taxes.
(h) For purposes of paragraphs (a), (e) and (f) of Section 6.02, whether a forty percent or greater ownership change is or would be involved in one or more transactions shall be determined under multiple methods that reflect the differing number of PMI shares outstanding at various times (e.g., on the Distribution Date, immediately prior to each transaction, etc.) and the method chosen shall be the one that results in the largest potential ownership change. For the avoidance of doubt, for purposes of paragraphs (a), (e) and (f) of Section 6.02, whether a forty percent or greater ownership change is or would be involved in one or more transactions shall be measured by aggregating the ownership change attributable to all transactions of the types described in (a), (e) and (f).
7.01 . Altria shall have the right to (i) contest, compromise, or settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed, asserted or assessed as a result of any audit of any consolidated or combined return filed by the Altria Consolidated Return Group; (ii) file, prosecute, compromise or settle any claim for refund; and (iii) determine whether any refunds to which the Altria Consolidated Return Group may be entitled shall be received by way of refund or credited against the tax liability of the Altria Consolidated Return Group; provided, however, that Altria shall be obligated to act in good faith with respect to any Tax Contest of any consolidated or combined return filed by the Altria Consolidated Return Group which involves a Tax or adjustment for which PMI is liable pursuant to this Agreement ("PMI Tax Contest"). Specifically, Altria shall, in good faith, (i) consult with PMI regarding its comments with respect to any such PMI Tax Contest, including any correspondence or filings submitted
Representation with Respect to Tax Contests
 
in connection therewith; (ii) consult with PMI as to strategy and settlement decisions with respect to any PMI Tax Contest, including any correspondence or filings submitted in connection therewith; and (iii) use its best efforts to arrive at a settlement of any such PMI Tax Contest that reflects the ultimate merits of the issues without taking into account the fact that PMI is liable for the Tax or adjustment under this Agreement.
(a) With respect to any PMI Tax Contest, Altria shall (i) keep PMI informed in a timely manner of all actions taken or proposed to be taken by Altria and (ii) timely provide PMI with copies of any correspondence or filings submitted to any Taxing Authority in connection with any contest, litigation, compromise or settlement relating to any such adjustment in any such Tax Contest. In addition, with respect to any Tax Contest in which a Taxing Authority has asserted a position that may result in a PMI indemnification obligation arising under Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, PMI shall have the right, at its own expense, to attend and participate in any such Tax Contest.
(b) The failure of Altria timely to forward notification in accordance with Section 7.01(a) shall not relieve PMI of any obligation to pay such Tax or adjustment or indemnify Altria, except to the extent PMI was actually materially prejudiced by such failure, and in no event shall such failure relieve PMI from any other liability or obligation which it may have to Altria.
8.01 . All payments required by this Agreement shall be made by (1) wire transfer to the appropriate bank account as may from time to time be designated by the Parties for such purpose, or (2) any other method agreed to by the Parties. All payments due under this Agreement shall be deemed to be paid when available funds are actually received by the payee.
Method of Payment
8.02 . Any payment required by this Agreement that is not made on or before the date required hereunder shall bear interest, from and after such date through the date of payment, calculated at the rate determined under Section 6621(a)(2) of the Code as modified by Section 6621(c) of the Code or as otherwise determined by any relevant Taxing Authority.
Interest
8.03 . For all Tax purposes, the Parties hereto agree to treat, and to cause their respective affiliates to treat, (1) any payment required by this Agreement (to the extent not otherwise treated as a payment in respect of an existing intercompany account) either as a contribution by Altria to PMI or a distribution by PMI to Altria, as the case may be, occurring immediately prior to the Distribution and (2) any payment of interest or non-Federal Income Taxes by or to a Tax Authority, as taxable or deductible, as the case may be, to the Parties entitled under this Agreement to retain such
Characterization of Payments
 
payment or required under this Agreement to make such payment, in either case, except as otherwise mandated by applicable law or a Final Determination; provided that in the event it is determined (i) pursuant to applicable law that it is more likely than not, or (ii) pursuant to a Final Determination, that any such treatment is not permissible (or that an Indemnified Party nevertheless suffers an income Tax or other Tax detriment as a result of such payment), the payment in question shall be adjusted to place the Indemnified Party in the same after-tax position it would have enjoyed absent such applicable law or Final Determination.
9.01 . Altria may, at its option, elect, and the PMI Group shall join it in electing (if necessary), to ratably allocate items (other than extraordinary items) of the PMI Group in accordance with relevant provisions of Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-76. If Altria makes such an election, the members of the PMI Group shall provide to Altria such statements as are required under the regulations and other appropriate assistance.
Allocation
9.02 . Within thirty days after the Distribution Date, Altria shall pay to PMI an amount equal to the Federal Income Tax reserve for uncertain Tax positions attributable to the PMI Group and recorded on the books and records of Altria as of the Distribution Date.
Payment of Reserves
9.03 .
Cooperation and Exchange of Information
(a) Altria and PMI shall each cooperate fully with all reasonable requests from the other Party in connection with the preparation and filing of Tax returns, claims for refund, and audits concerning issues or other matters covered by this Agreement (including, without limitation, cooperating in meeting those deadlines as established and reasonably determined by Altria to be necessary to facilitate the timely filing of any United States consolidated Federal Income Tax return of the Altria Consolidated Return Group). Such cooperation shall include, without limitation:
(i) the retention until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations, and the provision upon request, of Tax returns, books, records (including information regarding ownership and Tax basis of property), documentation and other information relating to the Tax returns, including accompanying schedules, related work papers, and documents relating to rulings or other determinations by Taxing Authorities;
(ii) the execution of any document that may be necessary or reasonably helpful in connection with any audit, or the filing of a Tax return or refund claim by a member of the Altria U.S. Group or the PMI Group, including certification, to the best of a Party's knowledge, of the accuracy and completeness of the information it has supplied;
 
(iii) for each taxable year of the Altria Consolidated Return Group for which a United States consolidated Federal Income Tax return is filed that includes any Pre-Distribution Period of the PMI Group, the use of the same tax preparation software required to facilitate the filing of the Altria Group Consolidated Return;
(iv) the use of the Party's best efforts to obtain any documentation that may be necessary or reasonably helpful in connection with any of the foregoing. Each Party shall make its employees and facilities available on a reasonable and mutually convenient basis in connection with the foregoing matters; and
(v) the participation in regularly scheduled meetings between the Parties to further the purposes of this Agreement.
(b) If a Party fails to comply with any of its obligations set forth in Section 9.03(a) of this Agreement upon reasonable request and notice by the other Party, and such failure results in the imposition of additional Taxes, the nonperforming Party shall be liable in full for such additional Taxes.
9.04 . A Party intending to dispose of documentation of Altria (or any other member of the Altria U.S. Group) or PMI (or any other member of the PMI Group), including without limitation, books, records, Tax returns and all supporting schedules and information relating thereto (after the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations), which relates to Tax returns described in Section 2.04 (to the extent it affects the separate Tax liability of PMI (or any other member of the PMI Group) or Altria (or any other member of the Altria U.S. Group)) shall provide written notice to the other Party describing the documentation to be destroyed or disposed of at least sixty days prior to taking such action. The other Party may arrange to take delivery of the documentation described in the notice at its expense during the succeeding sixty day period. The documentation described in the notice will not be disposed of without the affirmative written consent of an officer of the notified Party.
Retention of Records
9.05 . Any and all disputes between the Parties relating to this Agreement, including the interpretation or application thereof, shall be resolved through the procedures provided in Article VI of the Distribution Agreement.
Dispute Resolution
9.06 . Any reference to a provision of the Code or a law of another jurisdiction shall include a reference to any applicable successor provision or law. If, due to any change in applicable law or regulations or their interpretation by any court of law or other governing body having jurisdiction subsequent to the date of this Agreement, performance of any provision of this Agreement or any transaction contemplated thereby shall become unlawful, impracticable or impossible, the Parties
Changes in Law
 
hereto shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such provision.
9.07 . Each Party shall hold and cause its directors, officers, employees, advisors and consultants to hold in strict confidence, unless compelled to disclose by judicial or administrative process or, in the opinion of its counsel, by other requirements of law, all information (other than any such information relating solely to the business or affairs of such Party) concerning the other Party hereto furnished to it by such other Party or its representatives pursuant to this Agreement (except to the extent that such information can be shown to have been (1) in the public domain through no fault of such Party, (2) later lawfully acquired from other sources not known to be under a duty of confidentiality by the Party to which it was furnished, or (3) independently developed), and each Party shall not release or disclose such information to any other person, except its directors, officers, employees, auditors, attorneys, financial advisors, bankers and other consultants who shall be advised of and agree to be bound by the provisions of this Section 9.07. Each Party shall be deemed to have satisfied its obligation to hold confidential information concerning or supplied by the other Party if it exercises the same care as it takes to preserve confidentiality for its own similar information.
Confidentiality
9.08 . This agreement shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of any successor, by merger, acquisition of assets or otherwise, to any of the Parties hereto (including, but not limited to, any successor of Altria and PMI succeeding to the tax attributes of such Party under Section 381 of the Code), to the same extent as if such successor had been an original Party hereto.
Successors
9.09 Each of the Parties hereto hereby represents and warrants that it has the power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement; that this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of such Party; that this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each such Party; and that the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by such Party does not contravene or conflict with any provision of law or of its charter or bylaws or any agreement, instrument or order binding on such Party.
Authorization, etc.
9.10 . All notices, requests, and other communications to any Party hereunder shall be in writing (including electronic mail and facsimile transmission) and shall be given to:
Notices
If to Altria, to:
Altria Group, Inc.
6601 W. Broad Street
Richmond, Virginia 23261
Attn: Vice President, Taxes
 
If to PMI, to:
c/o Philip Morris International Management SA
Avenue de Rhodanie
1001 Lausanne, Switzerland
Attn: Vice President, Taxes
9.11 . This Agreement contains the entire agreement among the Parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior tax sharing agreements, and such prior tax sharing agreements shall have no further force and effect. If and to the extent that the provisions of this Agreement conflict with the Distribution Agreement or any other agreement entered into in connection with the Distribution, the provisions of this Agreement shall control. If and to the extent that the rights and obligations with respect to Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. (as a direct or indirect Subsidiary of Altria or PMI, respectively) provided for in this Agreement conflict with the rights and obligations with respect to Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. provided for in the Indemnification Agreement dated as of August 1, 2007 between Philip Morris USA Inc. and PMI, the provisions of this Agreement shall control.
Entire Agreement
9.12 . Section captions used in this Agreement are for convenience and reference only and shall not affect the construction of this Agreement.
Section Captions
9.13 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia (other than the laws regarding choice of laws and conflicts of laws) as to all matters, including matters of validity, construction, effect, performance and remedies; provided, however, that the United States Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C.  1-16 (as may be amended from time to time) shall govern the matters described in Section 9.05 of this Agreement.
Governing Law
9.14 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
9.15 . This Agreement shall not be waived, amended or otherwise modified except in writing, duly executed by all of the Parties hereto.
Waivers and Amendments
 
9.16 . This Agreement shall be effective as of the Distribution Date.
Effective Date
9.17 . The Agreement shall remain in force and be binding so long as the applicable period of assessments (including extensions) remains unexpired for any taxes contemplated by the Agreement.
Termination
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the Parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be executed by a duly authorized officer as of the date first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
 
The Philip Morris International Benefit Equalization Plan governs the rights of an Employee whose benefit under the Retirement Plan or the Profit-Sharing Plan, or both Qualified Plans, is subject to one or more of the Statutory Limitations. The liabilities allocable to Employees, former employees and retired employees of the international tobacco operations conducted by the Company and the other Participating Companies have been transferred from the Benefit Equalization Plan maintained by Altria Corporate Services, Inc. to the Plan.
It is intended that Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowances and Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowances with respect to Grandfathered Employees and Grandfathered Retired Employees not be subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and that the Plan be interpreted and administered in accordance with this intention. The Plan as hereinafter set forth shall be effective with respect to Employees who incur a Separation from Service on or after March 28, 2008, except as otherwise provided herein. The Plan will also be the source of benefits to former employees of Philip Morris International Inc. and its subsidiaries who terminated employment prior to January 1, 2008.
The Plan is three separate plans, programs or arrangements. Each portion shall be treated as a separate plan, program or arrangement from the other portions. One portion of the Plan provides benefits to a Retired Employee (or his Spouse or other Beneficiary) solely in excess of the Section 415 Limitations; the second portion of the Plan provides benefits to a Retired Employee (or his Spouse or other Beneficiary) attributable solely to the Compensation Limitation; the third portion of the Plan provides benefits to a Retired Employee (or his Spouse or other Beneficiary) because payment of the benefit from one or both of the Qualified Plans could result in a failure to meet the nondiscrimination requirements of Section 401(a)(4) of the Code or the coverage requirements of Section 410(b) of the Code.
 
The following terms as used herein and in the Preamble shall have the meanings set forth below. Any capitalized term used herein or in the Preamble and not defined below shall have the meaning set forth in the Retirement Plan or the Profit-Sharing Plan, as the context may require.
(a) "" shall mean a benefit which is at least equivalent in value to the benefit otherwise payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan, based on the actuarial principles and assumptions set forth in Exhibit I to the Retirement Plan; provided, however, that a Single Sum Payment of all or any portion of a benefit payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of such benefit (or portion of such benefit) payable in equal monthly payments during a twelve (12) month period for the life of the recipient commencing at the applicable BEP Benefit Commencement Date, using the actuarial principles and assumptions set forth in Exhibit A to the Plan.
Actuarial Equivalent
(b) "" or "" shall mean a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, determined under ARTICLE II A of the Plan and a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, determined under ARTICLE II B of the Plan.
Allowance
Allowances
(c) "" shall mean:
Beneficiary
(1) in the case of a Retired Employee who is to receive all or a portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance after his Separation from Service in a Single Sum Payment pursuant to ARTICLE II C(1)(a) of the Plan, but who dies after his Separation from Service and before such Single Sum Payment is made:
(i) if the Retired Employee is married on the date of his death, the Beneficiary of such Single Sum Payment shall be the Spouse to whom he was married on the date of death; and
(ii) if the Retired Employee is not married on the date of his death, the Beneficiary of such Single Sum Payment shall be the Retired Employee's estate.
An Employee or Retired Employee may designate any other person or persons as the Beneficiary who is to receive a Single Sum Payment of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in the event that he dies after his Separation from Service and before such Single Sum Payment is paid to him by timely filing a beneficiary designation form with the Administrator (or his delegate), provided, however, that if the Employee or Retired Employee is married on the date of the filing of such beneficiary designation form, his Spouse must consent, in writing before a notary public or a duly authorized representative of his Participating Company, to such designation.
(2) In the case of a Grandfathered Employee who has elected to receive after his Separation from Service that portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement
 
Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment described in ARTICLE I (z)(i)(2) or I (z)(i)(3) pursuant to ARTICLE II C(2) of the Plan, the person or persons designated by the Grandfathered Employee to receive (or who, pursuant to the terms of such Optional Payment, will receive) after his death a benefit according to the option elected by the Grandfathered Employee.
(3) In the case of an Employee or Retired Employee who has been credited with a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance and who dies prior to the payment of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance (or prior to the payment of the then remaining balance of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the case of a Grandfathered Employee who has elected to receive that portion of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to ARTICLE II D(3) of the Plan):
(i) if the Employee or Retired Employee is married on the date of his death, the Beneficiary of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance shall be the Spouse to whom he was married on the date of death; and
(ii) if the Employee or Retired Employee is not married on the date of his death, the Beneficiary of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance shall be the Employee's or Retired Employee's estate.
An Employee or Retired Employee may designate any other person or persons (including a trust created by the Employee or Retired Employee during his lifetime or by will) as Beneficiary of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the event of his death by timely filing a beneficiary designation form with the Administrator (or his delegate), provided that if the Employee or Retired Employee is married on the date of the filing of such beneficiary designation form, his Spouse must consent, in writing before a notary public or a duly authorized representative of his Participating Company, to such designation.
 
(d) "" shall mean the total amount that would be payable during a twelve (12) month period as a reduced Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance to a Retired Employee for life and after his death the amount payable to his Spouse for life equal to one-half of the reduced Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable to the Retired Employee (regardless of whether such form of benefit was available to such Retired Employee and his Spouse), which together shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of the Retired Employee.
Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance
(e) "" or "" shall mean the benefit determined under ARTICLE II B of the Plan and payable at the times and in the forms set forth in ARTICLE II D of the Plan. The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance shall be comprised of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, if any, and the remaining portion of such Allowance.
Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance
Profit-Sharing Allowance
(f) "" shall mean the benefit determined under ARTICLE II A of the Plan and payable at the times and in the forms set forth in ARTICLE II C of the Plan. The Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall be comprised of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, if any, and the remaining portion of such Allowance.
Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance
(g) "" shall mean the benefit payable to:
Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance
(i) the Spouse of a Deceased Employee; and
(ii) the Spouse of a deceased Retired Employee;
in an amount equal one-half of the reduced Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance which would have been payable in the form of a Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance to the Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee (regardless of whether such form of benefit was available to such Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee).
(h) "" shall mean the Philip Morris International Benefits Committee.
Benefits Committee
(i) "" shall mean the date on which the benefit to which the recipient is entitled to is paid or commences to be paid pursuant to the application filed in accordance with ARTICLE II E of the Plan, or if no such application is filed, in accordance with the terms of the Plan as determined in the sole discretion of the Administrator. All such Allowances (regardless of to whom paid) not paid in a Single Sum Payment are paid in arrears so that the actual date of payment shall be the first day of the calendar month next succeeding the BEP Benefit Commencement Date.
BEP Benefit Commencement Date
(i) Except as provided in clauses (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) hereof, the BEP Benefit Commencement Date of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall be the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date.
(ii) (A) Except as provided in clause (ii)(B), the BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that
 
is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to an election under ARTICLE II C(2) to a Grandfathered Retired Employee shall be the Benefit Commencement Date of the Grandfathered Retired Employee's Full, Deferred or Early Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan.
(B) The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable in the form of an Optional Payment with respect to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who voluntarily retires within the one (1) year period following the date of the filing of his application for an Optional Payment with the Administrator pursuant to ARTICLE II C(2) or whose employment is terminated for misconduct (as determined by the Benefits Committee) within such one (1) year period, shall be the first day of the month following the expiration of the one (1) year period following the date of the filing of his application for an Optional Payment.
(iii) The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is only eligible for a Vested Retirement Allowance shall be the Benefit Commencement Date of the Retired Employee's Vested Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan.
(iv) The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of any Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance described in ARTICLE II A(1)(f) shall be the BEP Benefit Commencement Date set forth in the General Release Agreement; provided, however, that if no time of payment is specified, the BEP Benefit Commencement Date shall be the first day of the third calendar month following the month in which the Employee Separates from Service, but no later than the 15
th
day of the third month following the end of the Employee's first taxable year in which the right is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture or the 15
th
day of the third month following the end of the Employee's Participating Company first taxable year in which the right is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture; provided, however that no such Benefit Equalization Allowance shall change either the time or form of payment of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of a Grandfathered Employee otherwise payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan.
(v) (A) Except as provided in clause (B), the BEP Benefit Commencement Date of the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance shall be the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date.
  (B) The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance payable in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to an election under ARTICLE II D(3) to a Grandfathered Retired Employee shall be the date specified in the application.
 
(vi) (A) Except as provided in clause (B), the BEP Benefit Commencement Date of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance payable to the Spouse of a Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee shall be the Survivor Allowance Payment Date, but not later than the Survivor Allowance Latest Payment Date.
(B) The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance that is derived from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is payable to:
 
 
shall, in each case, be the Benefit Commencement Date of the Survivor Allowance payable to such Spouse under the Retirement Plan, provided that the Spouse may elect in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE II, A5(c) or (f) of the Retirement Plan, as applicable to the Spouse, that the BEP Benefit Commencement Date be the first day of any month thereafter, but not later than the later of (i) the first day of the second calendar month following the month in which the Grandfathered Deceased Employee or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee died (or if his date of birth was on the first day of a calendar month, the first day of the calendar month next following the calendar month in which the Grandfathered Deceased Employee or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee died), or (ii) the date that would have been the Grandfathered Deceased Employee's or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee's Unreduced Early Retirement Benefit Commencement Date.
(j) "" shall mean:
Change in Circumstance
(i) the marriage of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee;
(ii) the divorce of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee from his spouse (determined in accordance with applicable state law), provided
(A) such spouse was the Beneficiary who is to receive an Optional Payment, or
(B) the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee elected to receive an Optional Payment pursuant to ARTICLE I(z)(i)(1) of the Plan;
(iii) the death of the Beneficiary designated by the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee to receive an Optional Payment after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee; or
(iv) a medical condition of the Beneficiary, based on medical evidence satisfactory to the Administrator, which is expected to result in the death of the
 
Beneficiary within five (5) years of the filing of an application for change in Optional Payment method pursuant to ARTICLE II C(2) or ARTICLE II D(2) hereof.
(k) "" shall mean PMI Global Services Inc. PMI Global Services Inc. is the sponsor of the Plan.
Company
(l) "" shall have the same meaning as in the Retirement Plan, except that in computing the Retirement Allowance and Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of an Employee in salary bands A and B who was not age fifty-five (55) or older at December 31, 2006, Compensation shall mean the lesser of his (i) base salary, plus annual incentive award, and (ii) base salary, plus annual incentive award at a business rating of 100 and individual performance rating of "Exceeds".
Compensation
(m) "" shall mean the limitation of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code on the annual compensation of an Employee which may be taken into account under the Qualified Plans.
Compensation Limitation
(n) "" shall have the same meaning as in the Retirement Plan.
Date of Retirement
(o) "" shall mean, when referring to an Allowance or any portion of an Allowance, an amount that, as of January 1, 2005, is not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined in Treasury Regulation 1.83-3(c)) or a requirement to perform future services.
Earned and Vested
(p) "" shall mean any person employed by a Participating Company who has accrued a benefit under the Retirement Plan or the Profit-Sharing Plan but whose entire accrued benefit, if computed without regard to the Statutory Limitations, cannot be paid under the Retirement Plan or Profit-Sharing Plan, or both Qualified Plans, as a result of the Statutory Limitations, provided that an Employee shall not include:
Employee
(i) an EPF Employee; or
(ii) an employee of a Participating Company who has elected to participate in the target payment arrangement, but only with respect to those calendar years in which he was a participant in such arrangement; provided, however, that nothing shall deprive such employee of any Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance earned for any Plan year in which he is not a participant in the target payment arrangement.
 
(q) "" shall mean the total amount that would be payable during a twelve (12) month period as a reduced Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance to a Grandfathered Retired Employee for life and after his death the amount payable to his Spouse for life equal to one-half of the reduced Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable to the Grandfathered Retired Employee, which together shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of the Grandfathered Retired Employee.
Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance
(r) "" shall mean, with respect to that portion of a Grandfathered Retired Employee's Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, the total amount payable during a twelve (12) month period in accordance with one of the payment methods described in ARTICLE II, A4(d) of the Retirement Plan and designated by the Grandfathered Retired Employee in his application for an Optional Payment under ARTICLE II C(2) of the Plan, pursuant to which the Grandfathered Retired Employee receives for life after his Date of Retirement a reduced Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in equal monthly payments for life and after his death after his Date of Retirement his Beneficiary receives for life a benefit in equal monthly payments according to the option elected by the Grandfathered Retired Employee, which together shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable in equal monthly payments for the life of the Grandfathered Retired Employee after his Date of Retirement.
Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance
(s) "" shall mean that portion of a Grandfathered Retired Employee's Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance as of December 31, 2004, the right to which is Earned and Vested as of December 31, 2004, plus any future contributions to the account, the right to which was Earned and Vested as of December 31, 2004, but only to the extent such contributions are actually made, plus earnings (whether actual or notional) attributable to such Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance as of December 31, 2004, or to such income.
Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance
(t) "" shall mean the present value of that portion (or all) of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance earned to December 31, 2004 to which the Grandfathered Employee or Retired Grandfathered Employee would have been entitled under the Plan if he had voluntarily terminated services without cause on or before December 31, 2004 and received a payment on the earliest possible date allowed under the Plan to receive payment of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance following the termination of services and received the benefits in the form with the maximum value; provided, however, that for any subsequent year such Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance may increase to equal the present value of the benefit the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee actually becomes entitled to, in the form and at the time actually paid, determined in accordance with the terms of the Plan (including applicable Statutory Limitations) as in effect on October 3, 2004, without regard to any further services rendered by the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee after December 31, 2004, or any other events affecting the amount of or the entitlement to benefits (other than an election with respect to the time and form of an available benefit).
Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance
 
(u) "" shall mean a Grandfathered Employee who died while he was an Employee at a time when he had a nonforfeitable right to any portion of his Retirement Allowance.
Grandfathered Deceased Employee
(v) "" shall mean:
Grandfathered Employee
(i) an Employee who is entitled to a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that was Earned and Vested; or
(ii) an Employee who is entitled to a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance,
and who, in either instance, is a participant in the executive trust and/or secular trust arrangements.
(w) "" shall mean:
Grandfathered Retired Employee
(i) in the case of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, a Retired Employee who is eligible for a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that was Earned and Vested; and
(ii) in the case of a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, a Retired Employee who is eligible for a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance,
and who, in either instance, is or was a participant in the executive trust and/or secular trust arrangements.
(x) "" shall mean the present value of that portion (or all) of the Retirement Allowance earned to December 31, 2004 under the Retirement Plan to which the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee had a nonforfeitable right as of December 31, 2004. In calculating the amount of such Grandfathered Retirement Allowance, it shall be assumed that (i) the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee voluntarily terminated services without cause on December 31, 2004, and (ii) received a payment of his Grandfathered Retirement Allowance with the maximum value available from the Retirement Plan on the earliest possible date allowed under the Retirement Plan to receive payment of a Retirement Allowance following the termination of services, provided, however, that for any subsequent year such Grandfathered Retirement Allowance may increase to equal the present value of the benefit the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee actually becomes entitled to, determined in accordance with the terms of the Retirement Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004, without regard to any further services rendered by the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee after December 31, 2004, or any other events affecting the amount of or the entitlement to benefits.
Grandfathered Retirement Allowance
(y) "" shall mean the later of:
Latest Payment Date
(i) December 31
st
of the year in which the Payment Date occurs, and
 
(ii) the fifteenth day of the third month following the Payment Date.
(z) "" shall mean:
Optional Payment
(i) the following optional forms in which that portion of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of a Grandfathered Retired Employee may be paid:
(1) in equal monthly payments for the life of the Grandfathered Retired Employee,
(2) in the form of a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance, or
(3) in the form of a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance, and
(ii) in the case of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance of a Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee, any of the methods of distribution permitted under ARTICLE VII of the Profit-Sharing Plan (other than a Single Sum Payment payable at the time specified in ARTICLE II D(1) of the Plan) and in the event the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee dies before distribution of that portion of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance is made, commences to be made or is fully distributed, to his Beneficiary in accordance with the method of distribution designated by such Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee; provided, however, that payment to a Beneficiary who is not the Spouse of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee shall be made no later than one (1) year following the death of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee.
Any election to receive an Optional Payment with respect to any Allowance or Allowances under the Plan shall be independent of any election with respect to benefits payable under the Retirement Plan, the Profit-Sharing Plan, or any other plan of a member of the Controlled Group.
 
(aa) "" shall mean the first day of the third calendar month following the month in which the Employee Separates from Service; provided, however, that in all cases of a Separation from Service other than on account of death, the Payment Date in the case of a Specified Employee shall be the first day of the calendar month following the date that is six (6) months following the date that such Specified Employee Separates from Service.
Payment Date
(bb) "" shall mean the Philip Morris International Benefit Equalization Plan described herein and in any amendments hereto.
Plan
(cc) "" shall mean the Philip Morris International Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan, effective January 1, 2008 and as amended from time to time.
Profit-Sharing Plan
(dd) "" shall mean the Retirement Plan and the Profit-Sharing Plan.
Qualified Plans
(ee) "" shall mean a former Employee who is eligible for or in receipt of, an Allowance. A Retired Employee shall cease to be such when he has received all of the Allowances payable to him under the Plan.
Retired Employee
(ff) "" shall mean the Philip Morris International Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2008, and as amended from time to time.
Retirement Plan
(gg) "" shall mean:
Section 415 Limitations
(i) in the case of the Retirement Plan, the limitations on benefits applicable to defined benefit plans set forth in Section 415 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, and
(ii) in the case of the Profit-Sharing Plan, the limitations on contributions applicable to defined contribution plans set forth in Section 415 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
(hh) "", "" or "" shall each have the same meaning as the term "separation from service" in Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h)(1).
Separation from Service
Separates from Service
Separated from Service
(ii) "" shall mean payment of a benefit or portion of a benefit in a single payment to a Retired Employee, or to the Spouse or other Beneficiary of an Employee, Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee. A Single Sum Payment shall be (i) the Actuarial Equivalent of the (or portion of the) Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable in equal monthly payments during a twelve (12) month period for the life of the Retired Employee, and (ii) the Actuarial Equivalent of the (or portion of the) Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance payable in equal monthly payments during a twelve (12) month period for the life of the Spouse of the Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee.
Single Sum Payment
(i) A Single Sum Payment shall be the exclusive form of distribution of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, except with respect to:
 
(A) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance derived solely from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and that is payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is only eligible for a Vested Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service; and
(B) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance derived solely from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and that is payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who has timely elected to receive after his Date of Retirement that portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to ARTICLE II C(2) of the Plan and which election does not cease to be of any force and effect pursuant to ARTICLE II C(2) hereof.
(ii) A Single Sum Payment shall be the exclusive form of distribution of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance, except with respect to that portion of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance derived solely from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable to the Spouse of a Grandfathered Deceased Employee or the Spouse of a deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee.
(iii) A Single Sum Payment shall be the exclusive form of distribution of the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, except with respect to that portion of the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance derived solely from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who has timely elected to receive after his Date of Retirement that portion of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to ARTICLE II D(3) of the Plan.
(jj) "" shall have the meaning given in Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(i).
Specified Employee
(kk) "" shall mean:
Statutory Limitations
(i) the Section 415 Limitations,
(ii) the Compensation Limitation,
(iii) the nondiscrimination requirements of Section 401(a)(4) of the Code, and
(iv) the coverage requirements of Section 410(b) of the Code.
(ll) "" shall mean the later of
Survivor Allowance Latest Payment Date
(i) December 31
st
of the year in which the Survivor Allowance Payment Date occurs, and
 
(ii) the fifteenth day of the third month following the Survivor Allowance Payment Date.
(mm) "" shall mean the first day of the third calendar month following the month in which the Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee died.
Survivor Allowance Payment Date
The masculine pronoun shall include the feminine pronoun unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
 
 
(1) (a) Subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (d), (e) and (f) hereof, the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to a Retired Employee (other than a Grandfathered Retired Employee) shall equal the sum of (i) and (ii) below:
(i) the amount by which the Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan accrued to the Date of Retirement, if computed without regard to the Statutory Limitations, exceeds the amount of the Retirement Allowance actually payable under the Retirement Plan, plus
(ii) in the case of a Retired Employee who is eligible to receive an enhanced benefit under the Qualified Plan (such as a benefit payable pursuant to a voluntary early retirement program or a shutdown benefit), but whose additional accrued benefit resulting solely from participation in such program or benefit may not be paid from the Qualified Plan because of the nondiscrimination requirements of Section 401(a)(4) of the Code, or the coverage requirements of Section 410(b) of the Code, the amount of such additional accrued benefit payable to such Retired Employee solely as a result of his participation in such program or benefit.
(b) Subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (d) and (e) and ARTICLE II F, the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a participant in the target payment arrangement shall equal the amount by which the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance exceeds the amount of the Grandfathered Retirement Allowance.
(c) Subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (d), (e) and (f) and ARTICLE II F, the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is not a participant in the target payment arrangement shall equal the sum of (i) and (ii) below:
(i) the amount by which the Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan accrued to the Date of Retirement, if computed without regard to the Statutory Limitations, exceeds the amount of the Retirement Allowance actually payable under the Retirement Plan, plus
(ii) in the case of a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is eligible to receive an enhanced benefit under the Qualified Plan (such as a benefit payable pursuant to a voluntary early retirement program or a shutdown benefit), but whose additional accrued benefit resulting solely from participation in such program or benefit may not be paid from the
 
Qualified Plan because of the nondiscrimination requirements of Section 401(a)(4) of the Code, or the coverage requirements of Section 410(b) of the Code, the amount of such additional accrued benefit payable to such Grandfathered Retired Employee solely as a result of his participation in such program or benefit.
In no event shall any increase in a Grandfathered Employee's Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance resulting from an amendment to the Salaried Plan to add or remove a subsidized benefit change the time and form of payment of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance earned prior to the date of such amendment.
(d) In the event that all or any portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to the Retired Employee described in ARTICLE II A(1)(a), ARTICLE II A(1)(b) or ARTICLE II A(1)(c) is paid in a Single Sum Payment prior to the Retired Employee's Benefit Commencement Date in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE II C, the amount of such Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall equal the amount by which the Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan accrued to the Date of Retirement, if computed without regard to the Statutory Limitations, is reasonably estimated by the Administrator to exceed the amount of the Retirement Allowance which is projected by the Administrator to be actually payable under the Retirement Plan.
(e) In the event that all or any portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to a Retired Employee described in ARTICLE II A(1)(a), ARTICLE II A(1)(b) or ARTICLE II A(1)(c) is paid in a Single Sum Payment in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE II C prior to the date the Retired Employee shall have specified on his application for retirement as the Benefit Commencement Date of his Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan, the Single Sum Payment shall be calculated based on the assumption that the Retired Employee elected to receive a Retirement Allowance at his Unreduced Early Retirement Benefit Commencement Date or Unreduced Vested Retirement Benefit Commencement Date, as applicable to the Retired Employee.
(f) If, as a result of the execution of a General Release Agreement (and not revoking it), (A) an Employee first obtains a legally binding right to payment of an increase in his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, (B) as of the first date the Employee obtains a legally binding right to such increase it is subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(d)), then the amount of such increase in the Benefit Equalization Allowance with respect to such Employee shall be the amount as set forth in the General Release Agreement and shall be payable at the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(i)(iv), provided, however that no such increase in an Employee's Benefit Equalization Allowance shall change either the time or form of payment of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of a Grandfathered Employee otherwise payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan. The provisions of this paragraph are in lieu of and not in addition to the benefits provided pursuant to the provisions of ARTICLE II A(1)(a)(ii) or ARTICLE II A(1)(c)(ii).
 
(2) (a) The Spouse of
(i) a Deceased Employee, or
(ii) a deceased Retired Employee (other than a deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee) who has died after his Date of Retirement and before his BEP Benefit Commencement Date
shall, in each case, be eligible to receive a Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance.
(b) The Spouse of a deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee who has died after his Date of Retirement and before his BEP Benefit Commencement Date shall be eligible to receive a Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance, provided that the deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee did not make an election for a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance and designated a Beneficiary other than his Spouse.
(c) The Spouse of a Grandfathered Retired Employee described in ARTICLE II A(1)(b) or ARTICLE II A(1)(c) of the Plan whose request for an Optional Payment pursuant to ARTICLE I(z)(i)(1) or ARTICLE I(z)(i)(2) of the Plan with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Allowance has been granted by the Administrator, but who dies after his Date of Retirement and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, shall be eligible to receive a Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance.
(3) The Beneficiary of a Grandfathered Retired Employee whose request for an Optional Payment in the form of a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance has been granted by the Administrator, but who dies after his Date of Retirement and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date shall be eligible to receive that portion of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance elected by the Grandfathered Retired Employee which is payable after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee.
 
(1) (a) The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance with respect to an Employee who is not a Grandfathered Retired Employee shall equal the amounts which would have been credited, but were not credited to his Company Account as a result of the Statutory Limitations.
(b) The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance with respect to a Grandfathered Employee who is a participant in the target payment arrangement shall equal the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance.
(c) The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance with respect to a Grandfathered Employee who is not a participant in the target payment arrangement shall equal the sum of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, plus the amounts
 
which would have been credited, but were not credited to his Company Account (as defined in the Profit-Sharing Plan) on and after January 1, 2005 as a result of the Statutory Limitations.
(2) All such amounts shall be deemed to have been invested in Part A of the Fund (as defined in the Profit-Sharing Plan) and valued in accordance with the provisions of the Profit-Sharing Plan.
 
(1) (a)(i) The Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable pursuant to ARTICLE II A(1)(a) of the Plan shall be distributed to a Retired Employee in a Single Sum Payment on the Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(i)(i). If a Retired Employee described in ARTICLE II A(1)(a) dies after his Date of Retirement and before payment of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance is paid in a Single Sum Payment, his Beneficiary shall receive a Single Sum Payment on the Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I (i)(i).
(ii) The Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable pursuant to paragraph A(1)(b) and (c) of the Plan shall be distributed to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is eligible for an Early, Full or Deferred Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service in a Single Sum Payment on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(j)(i), unless the Administrator has approved the election of the Grandfathered Retired Employee to have distribution of that portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance made in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to subparagraph (2) of this ARTICLE II C, in which case the BEP Benefit Commencement Date of his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance made in the form of an Optional Payment shall be as specified in ARTICLE I(i)(ii)(A) or (B), as applicable to the Grandfathered Retired Employee. If a Grandfathered Retired Employee described in ARTICLE II, A(1) (b) or (c) who is eligible for an Early, Full or Deferred Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service dies after his Date of Retirement and before payment of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in a Single Sum Payment, his Beneficiary shall receive a Single Sum Payment on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(i)(i), provided, that the Administrator has not granted the Grandfathered Retired Employee's application to receive an Optional Payment.
(iii) the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable pursuant to paragraph A(1)(b) or (c) of the Plan shall be distributed to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is only eligible for a Vested Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service, as follows:
(y) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Allowance shall be distributed in accordance with the Grandfathered Retired Employee's BEP Benefit Commencement Date described in ARTICLE I(i)(iii) of the Plan and shall be paid in the same form of Optional Payment which the Grandfathered Retired Employee's Vested Retirement Allowance is paid from the Retirement Plan; and
 
(z) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Allowance shall be distributed to the Retired Employee in a Single Sum Payment on Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(i)(i).
(b) (i) The amount of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance to be distributed in a Single Sum Payment pursuant to subparagraph (iii)(z) above, shall equal the present value of such Allowance that would be payable to the Retired Employee as of the date he will attain the age of sixty-five (65). The present value of such Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall be determined as of the first day of the month following the month in which the Retired Employee Separated from Service (or died, in the case of a payment to the Spouse of the deceased Retired Employee).
     (ii) If such Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable in a Single Sum Payment is paid after the Payment Date, interest (at a rate determined in the sole discretion of the Administrator), from the date the Retired Employee Separated from Service to the last day of the month preceding the month in which payment is made, shall be added to the amount of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance otherwise payable to the Retired Employee (or Spouse).
(2) (a)(1) A Grandfathered Retired Employee who is eligible to retire on a Full, Deferred or Early Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service may make application to the Administrator to receive an Optional Payment with respect to his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in lieu of the Single Sum Payment otherwise payable after his Date of Retirement. The application for an Optional Payment shall specify:
(i) the form in which such Optional Payment is to be paid, and
(ii) the Beneficiary, if any, who will receive benefits after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee; and
(iii) the BEP Benefit Commencement Date.
(b) In the case of a Grandfathered Retired Employee who eighteen (18) months prior to attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years could be compulsorily retired by his Participating Company upon attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years pursuant to Section 12(c) of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, any application for an Optional Payment must be filed with the Administrator more than one (1) year preceding the date the Grandfathered Retired Employee attains the age of sixty-five (65) years.
(c) The Administrator may grant or deny any such application in its sole and absolute discretion. Except as provided in subparagraphs (d)(i) and (f) of this ARTICLE II C, a Grandfathered Retired Employee shall not receive that portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in the form of a Single Sum Payment after the Administrator has granted the Grandfathered Retired Employee application for an Optional Payment. In the event the Grandfathered Retired Employee incurs a Change in Circumstance on or after the date of the filing of the application for an Optional Payment and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, the Grandfathered
 
Retired Employee may file an application with the Administrator within ninety (90) days of the Change in Circumstance, but in no event later than his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, to change the form of Optional Payment, or to change the Beneficiary who is to receive a benefit after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee in accordance with the Optional Payment method originally filed with the Administrator.
(d) An application for an Optional Payment shall be of no force and effect if:
(i) the Grandfathered Retired Employee does not retire on a Full, Deferred or Early Retirement Allowance,
(ii) the Grandfathered Retired Employee incurs a disability at any time before the date his Optional Payment commences to be made which causes him to be eligible for benefits under the Philip Morris International Long-Term Disability Plan, or
(iii) the Grandfathered Retired Employee is retired for ill health, or disability under ARTICLE II, A 3(a) of the Retirement Plan.
(e) In the event the application for an Optional Payment is of no force and effect as a result of an event described in clauses (ii) or (iii) of ARTICLE II C(2)(d) of the Plan, payment of that portion of the Grandfathered Retired Employee's Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall be made in a Single Sum Payment pursuant to ARTICLE II C(1)(a) of the Plan on the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date, but otherwise such application for an Optional Payment shall be effective on the Grandfathered Retired Employee's Date of Retirement on a Full, Deferred or Early Retirement Allowance and the Grandfathered Retired Employee's benefits shall commence on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(j)(ii)(A) of the Plan; provided, however, that if within the one (1) year period following the date of the filing of the application with the Administrator the Grandfathered Retired Employee voluntarily retires or his employment is terminated for misconduct (as determined by the Administrator) by any member of the Controlled Group, the Optional Payment shall be reduced by one percent (1%) for each month (or portion of a month) by which the month in which the Grandfathered Retired Employee's termination of employment precedes the first anniversary of the filing of the application with the Administrator and his benefits shall commence in the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(j)(ii)(B) of the Plan.
(f) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this paragraph C,
(i) the Administrator may cause the distribution of that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance to any group of similarly situated Retired Employees (or their Spouses or other Beneficiaries) in a Single Sum Payment or as an Optional Payment; and
(ii) the Administrator shall distribute that portion of an Employee's Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in a Single Sum Payment if such portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable in equal monthly payments is not more than $250 per month.
 
(3) The Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance payable pursuant to ARTICLE II A(2)(a) shall be paid in a Single Sum Payment on the Survivor Allowance Payment Date, but not later than the Survivor Allowance Latest Payment Date, provided, however, that the portion of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance that is derived from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall be paid on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date described in ARTICLE I(i)(vi)(B).
(4) The Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable pursuant to ARTICLE II A(2)(b) and ARTICLE II A(2)(c) shall be paid on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date described in ARTICLE I(i)(vi)(B).
D. Commencement and termination of Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowances:
(1) The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance payable pursuant to ARTICLE II B(1)(a), (b) or (c) shall be distributed to the Retired Employee in a Single Sum Payment on the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date, unless, solely in the case of a Grandfathered Retired Employee, the Administrator has approved his election to have distribution of that portion of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance made in accordance with ARTICLE II D(3) of the Plan.
(2) If an Employee or Retired Employee dies before his Single Sum Payment has been paid and without having the approval by the Administrator for payment of that portion of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment, the Single Sum Payment otherwise payable to the Employee or Retired Employee shall be paid to his Beneficiary on the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date.
(3) (a) A Grandfathered Employee may make application to the Administrator to receive an Optional Payment with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in lieu of the Single Sum Payment otherwise payable to him on the Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(i)(v)(A) after he becomes a Grandfathered Retired Employee. The application for an Optional Payment shall specify:
(i) the form in which such Optional Payment is to be paid;
(ii) the Beneficiary who will receive the balance of that portion of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance after the death of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee.
(b) In the case of a Grandfathered Employee who eighteen (18) months prior to attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years could be compulsorily retired by his Participating Company upon attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years pursuant to Section 12(c) of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, any application for an Optional Payment must be filed with the Administrator more than one (1) year preceding the date the Grandfathered Employee attains the age of sixty-five (65) years.
 
(c) The Administrator may grant or deny any such application in its sole and absolute discretion. A Grandfathered Employee shall not receive that portion of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the form of a Single Sum Payment after the Administrator has granted the Grandfathered Employee's application for an Optional Payment. In the event the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee has elected to receive his Optional Payment over the joint life expectancies of he and his Beneficiary and incurs a Change in Circumstance described in ARTICLE I(j)(ii), (iii) or (iv) hereof on or after the date of the filing of the application and prior to the date his Optional Payment commences to be paid, the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee may file an application with the Administrator within ninety (90) days of the Change in Circumstance, but in no event later than the date his Optional Payment is scheduled to commence to be paid to designate a new Beneficiary or elect to receive his Optional Payment over the life expectancy of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee.
(d) If within the one (1) year period following the date of the filing of the application for an Optional Payment with the Administrator, the Grandfathered Employee voluntarily retires (other than for ill health, disability or hardship under ARTICLE II, A(3)(a) of the Retirement Plan), voluntarily terminates his employment with his Participating Company (other than for a disability which causes him to be eligible for benefits under the Long-Term Disability Plan for Salaried Employees), or his employment is terminated for misconduct (as determined by the Administrator) by any member of the Controlled Group, the Optional Payment shall be reduced in the same manner as specified in ARTICLE II C(2)(e) hereof.
(e) If a Grandfathered Retired Employee dies after he Separates from Service and prior to the date his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance is paid or commences to be paid, payment shall be made to his Beneficiary commencing in the form and on the date specified in the application.
(4) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Paragraph D, (a) the Administrator may cause the distribution of that portion of the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance to any group of similarly situated Beneficiaries in a Single Sum Payment or as an Optional Payment and (b) the Administrator shall distribute a Grandfathered Employee's or Grandfathered Retired Employee's Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in a Single Sum Payment if the value of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance is not more than $10,000.
E. Application or Notification for Payment of Allowances:
An application for retirement pursuant to ARTICLE II, B of the Retirement Plan shall be deemed notification to the Administrator of the BEP Benefit Commencement Date of a Benefit
 
Equalization Retirement Allowance (or other benefit) in accordance with the terms of this Plan. In the event the Employee shall not have elected an Optional Payment method with respect to his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, any such notification shall specify the Beneficiary to whom payment of the Single Sum Payment shall be made in the event the Employee dies after his Date of Retirement and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date.
An Employee or Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) shall make application to the Administrator (or his delegate) for distribution of Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance under this Plan.
F. Reduction in Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowances and Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowances
The amount of any Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance otherwise payable to a Retired Employee, or his spouse or other Beneficiary pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be offset by:
(1) any amounts paid from the Employee's Grantor Trust, said offset to be determined pursuant to the provisions of ARTICLE III of the Employee's Employee Grantor Trust Enrollment Agreement; and
(2) any "offset amount" (as such term is defined in an Employee's Cash Enrollment Agreement), said offset amount to be determined pursuant to the provisions of ARTICLE II of the Employee's Cash Enrollment Agreement.
 
Individual accounts shall be established for the benefit of each Employee and Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) under the Plan. Any benefits payable from an individual account shall be payable solely to the Employee, Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) for whom such account was established. The Plan shall be unfunded. All benefits intended to be provided under the Plan shall be paid from time to time from the general assets of the Employee's or Retired Employee's Participating Company and paid in accordance with the provisions of the Plan; provided, however, that the Participating Companies reserve the right to meet the obligations created under the Plan through one or more trusts or other agreements. In no event shall any such trust or trusts be outside of the United States. The contributions by each Participating Company on behalf of its Employees and Retired Employees to the individual accounts established pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, whether in trust or otherwise, shall be in an amount which such Participating Company, with the advice of an actuary, determines to be sufficient to provide for the payment of the benefits under the Plan.
 
The general administration of the Plan shall be vested in the Administrator.
All powers, rights, duties and responsibilities assigned to the Administrator under the Retirement Plan applicable to this Plan shall be the powers, rights, duties and responsibilities of the Administrator under the terms of this Plan, except that the Administrator shall not be a fiduciary (within the meaning of Section 3(21) of ERISA) with respect to any portion or all of the Plan which is intended to be exempt from the requirements of ERISA pursuant to Section 4(b)(5) of ERISA or which is described in Section 401(a)(1) of ERISA and exempt from the requirements of Part 4 of Title I of ERISA.
 
The Board may, from time to time, and at any time, amend the Plan; provided, however, that authority to amend the Plan is delegated to the following committees or individuals where approval of the Plan amendment or amendments by the shareholders of Philip Morris International Inc. is not required: (1) to the Benefits Committee, if the amendment (or amendments) will not increase the annual cost of the Plan by $10,000,000 and (2) to the Administrator, if the amendment (or amendments) will not increase the annual cost of the Plan by $500,000.
Any amendment to the Plan may effect a substantial change in the Plan and may include (but shall not be limited to) any change deemed by the Company to be necessary or desirable to obtain tax benefits under any existing or future laws or rules or regulations thereunder; provided, however, that no such amendment shall deprive any Employee, Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) of any Allowances accrued at the time of such amendment.
The Plan may be discontinued at any time by the Board; provided, however, that such discontinuance shall not deprive any Employee, Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) of any Allowances accrued at the time of such discontinuance.
 
The Administrator shall provide such appropriate forms as it may deem expedient in the administration of the Plan and no action to be taken under the Plan for which a form is so provided shall be valid unless upon such form. Any Plan communication may be made by electronic medium to the extent allowed by applicable law. The Administrator may adopt reasonable procedures to enable an Employee or Retired Employee to make an election using electronic medium (including an interactive telephone system and a website on the Intranet).
All communications concerning the Plan shall be in writing addressed to the Administrator at such address as may from time to time be designated. No communication shall be effective for any purpose unless received by the Administrator.
 
The Administrator shall have the full power and authority to grant or deny requests for payment of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in accordance with a form of distribution authorized under the Retirement Plan and to grant or deny requests for payment of a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in accordance with a form of distribution authorized under the Profit-Sharing Plan to the extent permitted under Code 409A. The Management Committee shall have the full power and authority to grant or deny requests for payment of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance by the Administrator.
The Administrator shall have full power and authority with respect to all other matters arising in the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan, including discretionary authority to construe plan terms and provisions, to determine all questions that arise under the Plan such as the eligibility of any employee of a Participating Company to participate under the Plan; to determine the amount of any benefit to which any person is entitled to under the Plan; to make factual determinations and to remedy any ambiguities, inconsistencies or omissions of any kind.
The Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Accordingly, where applicable, this Plan shall at all times be construed and administered in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations without any diminution in the value of benefits. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, no Participating Company shall be liable to any person if the Internal Revenue Service or any court or other authority having jurisdiction over such matter determines for any reason that any payment under this Plan is subject to taxes, penalties or interest as a result of failing to comply with Section 409A of the Code.
 
A. In the event of a Change of Control, each Employee shall be fully vested in his Allowances and any other benefits accrued through the date of the Change of Control ("Accrued Benefits"). Each Employee (or his Beneficiary) shall, upon the Change of Control, be entitled to a lump sum in cash, payable within 30 days of the Change of Control, equal to the actuarial equivalent of his Accrued Benefits, determined using actuarial assumptions no less favorable than those used under the Supplemental Management Employees' Retirement Plan immediately prior to the Change of Control.
B. Definition of Change of Control.
"Change of Control" shall mean the happening of any of the following events with respect to a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance:
(1) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of Philip Morris International Inc. (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of Philip Morris International Inc. entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (i) any acquisition directly from Philip Morris International Inc., (ii) any acquisition by Philip Morris International Inc., (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Philip Morris International Inc. or any corporation controlled by Philip Morris International Inc. or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (3) of this Section B; or
(2) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by Philip Morris International Inc.'s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
(3) Approval by the shareholders of Philip Morris International Inc. of a reorganization, merger, share exchange or consolidation (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination
 
beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 80% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns Philip Morris International Inc. through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Philip Morris International Inc. or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
(4) Approval by the shareholders of Philip Morris International Inc. of (i) a complete liquidation or dissolution of Philip Morris International Inc. or (ii) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Philip Morris International Inc., other than to a corporation, with respect to which following such sale or other disposition, (A) more than 80% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such sale or other disposition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately prior to such sale or other disposition, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) less than 20% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Philip Morris International Inc. or such corporation), except to the extent that such Person owned 20% or more of the Outstanding Company Common Stock or Outstanding Company Voting Securities prior to the sale or disposition and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of such corporation were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such sale or other disposition of assets of Philip Morris International Inc. or were elected, appointed or nominated by the Board.
"Change of Control" shall mean the happening of any of the events specified in Treasury Regulation 1.409A- 3(i)(5)(v), (vi) (vii) with respect to that portion of a Benefit Equalization Allowance that is not a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and that portion of a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is not a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance. For purposes of determining if a Change in Control has occurred, the Change in Control event must relate to a corporation identified in Treasury Regulation 1.409A- 3(i)(5)(ii), provided, however, that (i) the spin-off of the shares of Philip Morris International Inc. to the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. shall not be considered to be a Change in Control, and (ii) any change in the Incumbent Board coincident with such spin-off shall not be considered to be a Change in Control.
 
INTEREST RATE: The average of the monthly rate of interest specified in Section 417(e)(3)(A)(ii)(II) of the Code, but published for 24 months preceding the Employee's Date of Retirement, less 1/2 of 1%.
MORTALITY ASSUMPTION: The mortality table specified in Section 417(e)(3)(A)(ii)(I) of the Code and Section 1.417(e)-1(c)(2) of the Treasury Regulations (currently the table prescribed in Revenue Ruling 2001-62).
 


