FILE:PM/PM-8K-20081105143714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appointment of Directors
On October 31, 2008, the Board of Directors of Philip Morris International Inc. ("PMI") elected Graham Mackay to the PMI Board of Directors. Mr. Mackay was also elected a member of the Compensation and Leadership Development, Finance, and Product Innovation and Regulatory Affairs Committees. The Board of Directors determined that Mr. Mackay is an independent director under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and PMI's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
Mr. Mackay will be compensated for his service on PMI's Board of Directors pursuant to the existing PMI director compensation programs. These compensation programs are described in detail in the PMI Registration Statement on Form 10, as amended (File No. 00133708).
A copy of the press release issued by PMI announcing the appointment of Mr. Mackay is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
 
99.1    Philip Morris International Inc. Press Release, dated October 31, 2008.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: November 5, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
News release
Graham Mackay Elected to Board of Directors of Philip Morris International (PMI)
NEW YORK(BUSINESS WIRE)Oct. 31, 2008Regulatory News:
Philip Morris International Inc. (NYSE / Euronext Paris: PM) today announced the election of Graham Mackay, Chief Executive of SABMiller plc, to its Board of Directors. With the addition of Mr. Mackay, age 59, the PMI Board will now total nine directors.
Mr. Mackay joined The South African Breweries Limited (SAB Ltd) in 1978 and has held a number of senior positions in the group, including Executive Chairman of the beer business in South Africa. He was appointed Group Managing Director in 1997 and Chief Executive of South African Breweries plc upon its listing on the London Stock Exchange in 1999. In 2002, the company acquired Miller Brewing Company in the United States and became SABMiller plc. Mr. Mackay is also the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
"I am delighted to welcome Graham to our Board," said Louis C. Camilleri, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "His extensive global business acumen and understanding of the consumer packaged goods industry will complement the experience and expertise of our superbly qualified Board and will undoubtedly prove to be invaluable in the years ahead."
Philip Morris International Inc. Profile
Philip Morris International Inc. (PMI) is the leading international tobacco company, with seven of the world's top 15 brands, including Marlboro, the number one cigarette brand worldwide. PMI has more than 75,000 employees and its products are sold in approximately 160 countries. In 2007, the company held an estimated 15.6% share of the total international cigarette market outside of the U.S. For more information, see www.pmintl.com.
Trademarks and service marks mentioned in this release are the registered property of, or licensed by, the subsidiaries of Philip Morris International Inc.
CONTACT: Investor Relations
New York: +1 (917) 663 2233
Lausanne: +41 (058) 242 4666
SOURCE: Philip Morris International Inc.


