FILE:PM/PM-8K-20080311090943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On March 11, 2008, Louis C. Camilleri, who will become Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Philip Morris International Inc. (the "Company"), is hosting a live audio webcast of a conference call in connection with the spin-off of the Company by Altria Group, Inc. During the conference call, Andr Calantzopoulos and Hermann Waldemer, who will be Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, respectively, following the spin-off, will give presentations on the Company's growth strategies, capital structure, cost savings and productivity initiatives, opportunities and outlook.
The Company is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission the following documents attached as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference: the text of the opening remarks of Mr. Rolli attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto; the text of Mr. Camilleri's remarks attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto; the text of the remarks of Mr. Calantzopoulos and Mr. Waldemer and selected slides attached as Exhibit 99.3 hereto.
Statements in the attached exhibits that are not reported financial results or other historical information are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on current plans, estimates and expectations, and are not guarantees of future performance. They are based on management's expectations that involve a number of business risks and uncertainties, any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement. The risks and uncertainties relating to the forward-looking statements in this presentation include those described under the caption "Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results" in the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 that was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 2008.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures included in this presentation to the most comparable GAAP measures are set forth in Exhibit 99.3 and are available on altria.com.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including exhibits hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: March 11, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Good morning and welcome everyone.
I'm Nick Rolli, Vice President Investor Relations and Financial Communications for Altria. Following the spin-off, I will head up Investor Relations for Philip Morris International and Cliff Fleet, who is also here this morning, will head up Investor Relations for Altria. As we approach the distribution date, we will communicate our new contact information to investors and the news media.
Earlier this morning, we issued a news release which contains information about today's presentations. You may access a copy on our website at .
www.altria.com
After opening remarks from Louis Camilleri, Altria's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Altria and PMI will each give presentations followed by a Q&A session.
We are providing an audio webcast of today's meeting and it is available on our website and will be archived until April 9, 2008.
Shortly after the conclusion of the meeting, we will post remarks and selected slides from each presentation to the Altria website. Additional information about the spin-off of PMI, including answers to frequently asked questions, is already available on a special section of the website at www.altria.com/pmispinoff. On your way out today, we will also make available hard copies of the remarks from each presentation.
Before we begin, a few housekeeping items:
 
 
Altria and PMI's presentations contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results and I direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement at the end of today's news release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
The companies report their financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Today's presentations may contain various operating results on both a reported basis and on an adjusted basis, which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results. Reconciliations will be included in the remarks and selected slides posted to our website.
It's my pleasure to now introduce Louis Camilleri, Altria's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Thank you, Nick. It's a pleasure to be here and thank you all for coming.
I would like to begin by outlining what will be covered in today's presentations, and who will speak on each topic.
My introductory remarks will address the remaining timeline and touch on some key points related to the forthcoming spin-off of Philip Morris International.
Mike Szymanczyk and Dave Beran will then present the new Altria' that will emerge after the spin-off.
Mike will review Altria's strategies for achieving sustainable long-term growth and reveal Altria's shareholder return targets going forward.
Dave will discuss Altria's productivity initiatives and financial strategy to deliver consistent and substantial shareholder return.
Mike and Dave will then take your questions.
Following our break, I will return to introduce our review of PMI, which will include presentations by Andr Calantzopoulos and Hermann Waldemer.
Andr will discuss PMI's growth strategies and opportunities with a particular focus on our plans for our key brands.
Hermann will review PMI's productivity initiatives, as well as our plans to exploit the strength of PMI's balance sheet and its growing cash flow to enhance shareholder returns. We will then field your questions.
As I stated in August, I firmly believe that PMI's impending separation from Altria will enhance growth and shareholder value by providing:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The distribution will be made on March 28, 2008, to Altria shareholders of record as of 5:00 p.m. New York City Time on March 19, 2008.
Altria will distribute one share of PMI stock for every share of Altria common stock outstanding at 5:00 p.m. New York City Time on the record date.
Trading will begin for PMI stock on March 31, 2008, on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "PM", while Altria will continue trading under the symbol "MO".
Altria will begin mailing an Information Statement to all holders of Altria common stock as of the record date. Included in the Information Statement are the procedures by which the distribution will be effected and other details of the transaction, together with comprehensive data on PMI.
With the completion of the spin-off later this month, the diversified consumer products conglomerate that was built over four decades, and became the world's most profitable consumer products company, will no longer exist as we have known it.
In its place will be three independent, focused and thriving entities . . . the already-independent Kraft Foods, the soon-to-be independent Philip Morris International and the new Altria.
All three are in the top-ten list of the most profitable global consumer products companies, based on the latest available data, and I firmly believe that all three are poised to accelerate their growth momentum in the years ahead.
 
Over the five-year period from December 31, 2002, to December 31, 2007, Altria's total shareholder return, including Kraft throughout, was 181.8%, a four-and-a-half fold increase versus the S&P 500 return of 40.4% during the same period.
Although the overall market has been severely depressed to-date, Altria  down about 1%  has actually held up remarkably well when compared to the S&P 500  down nearly 13%.
Over the same five-year period, our market capitalization increased by $123 billion, to reach a pro-forma level of approximately $206 billion at year-end 2007, including Kraft . . . placing us at number seven among the S&P 500 companies by market capitalization in 2007, also including Kraft.
Today is not about the past, but the future . . . and I want to assure you that our relentless focus on growth and returns to shareholders will continue going forward. We have maintained a pristine balance sheet, and our projections for 2008 earnings per share growth rates are robust.
For the full-year 2008, Altria forecasts diluted earnings per share from continuing operations will grow approximately 9% to 11% from a 2007 adjusted base of $1.50, excluding PMI, which will be accounted for as a discontinued operation.
PMI forecasts full-year 2008 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations will grow approximately 12% to 14% at prevailing January exchange rates, from a 2007 pro-forma adjusted base of $2.78.
These forecasts exclude the impact of any potential future acquisitions or divestitures, Altria's approximately $400 million pre-tax gain on the sale of its headquarters in New York City, $400 million in pre-tax charges related to the tender offer for Altria's notes and a number of other factors detailed in our 2007 year-end news release.
We have announced dividend policies, initial dividend rates and share repurchase programs for Altria and PMI post-spin, and these will be discussed in more detail by Dave and Hermann.
Before proceeding, I want to say a few words about the other speakers today . . . Mike, Andr, Dave and Hermann.
As you know, Mike will serve as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Altria, following my resignation from those positions to serve in a similar role at PMI. I have known Mike and worked closely with him for more than 12 years, and have the highest regard for his immense business acumen, intellect, courage and leadership qualities. I
 
have no doubt that he will flourish in his new role and lead Altria to ever-greater heights. Mike has been the Chief Executive Officer of PM USA since 1997, having joined the company in 1990 as Senior Vice President of Sales. Prior to that he had extensive consumer products experience at P&G and Kraft, particularly in sales and marketing.
I am delighted that Andr has agreed to serve as Chief Operating Officer of PMI, reporting to me. Andr has served as President and CEO of PMI since March 2002. I actually hired Andr back in 1985 and he has since worked extensively across Central Europe before becoming President of the Eastern Europe region in 1999. Andr is an engineer by background and complements this with a creative flair and drive for results. I could not select a better partner to guide PMI going forward.
Following the spin-off, Altria and PMI will be blessed with what I would characterize as two "accomplished and complete" chief financial officers. Indeed, both Dave and Hermann have built on their vast financial experience with operational roles and each of them has accumulated a thorough understanding of our businesses and industry.
Dave will serve as Chief Financial Officer for the new Altria. He joined the company in 1976. He assumed his current position as PM USA's CFO in July 2007, and before that was executive vice president for finance, planning and information from 2005. He served as executive vice president of strategy, communications and consumer contact from 2002 to 2005, and was PM USA's Senior Vice President of Operations from 2000 through 2002.
Hermann will serve as CFO of PMI. He assumed his current position in September 2005. He was previously President of PMI's Western Europe region, and prior to that, was Managing Director of France and then Germany in a career at PMI that has spanned 21 years.
This is essentially my last public engagement in my current capacity and, accordingly, I would like to take this opportunity to express my profound gratitude for your keen interest and support during the last six challenging and exciting years during which I had the privilege to lead Altria.
We have had our fair share of highs and lows, but they have definitely been thrilling and rewarding years, and I am proud of what the company has achieved in this period. I look forward to an exciting future at PMI and to witnessing the growth of the new Altria in the years ahead.
And now, it is my pleasure to introduce Mike 
 

Exhibit 99.3
Remarks by Andr Calantzopoulos and Hermann Waldemer, who will become Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of PMI, respectively, following the spin-off of Philip Morris International Inc.
[Remarks by Mr. Camilleri]
1) Andr Calantzopoulos, Hermann Waldemer and I are delighted to be here on the eve of PMI becoming an independent public company. We, together with our 75,000 employees, are genuinely excited by our future growth prospects and determined to fulfill our promise and to further build upon our former parent's exceptional shareholder return legacy.
2) Our review of PMI will be split into three parts.
I will first introduce you to PMI's Board of Directors and senior leadership team and share with you our ambitions and aspirations for PMI and our longer term growth targets.
3) Andr will review how we intend to leverage PMI's unparalleled strengths and resources, and focus on the operational strategies that we will pursue to deliver these targets.
4) Hermann will conclude by reviewing our productivity initiatives, and our plans to exploit the strength of our balance sheet and our growing cash flow to enhance shareholder returns.
5) One of Altria's historical hallmarks has always been the quality and shareholder value focus of its Board of Directors and its senior leadership team. PMI will undoubtedly share this characteristic going forward.
6) As Altria announced in January, PMI's Board of Directors will include five former independent Altria Board members, who have served the company for an average of 13 years each and who are therefore intimately familiar with the intricacies of PMI's business and prospects.
7) Three new members will join them on the Board. They are Graham Mackay, Chief Executive Officer of SABMiller, Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer of the Fiat Group, and Carlos
 
Slim Hel, who had served on the Altria Board for approximately ten years, from 1997 to 2006.
Together they represent a formidable Board with vast complementary skills and expertise to guide us in the years ahead.
8) Our senior management team is shown on this slide. Some are unknown to you, but I am sure that as the months and years unfold you will get to meet most, if not all, of them. They collectively hail from 11 different countries, have had an average tenure with the Altria group of companies of 20 years, and all share a common passion for this wonderful company. Indeed, I could not hope to assemble a more talented, committed, growth-oriented and appropriately ambitious leadership team.
You should also know that we are blessed with a depth of management talent that goes way beyond these 15 individuals. While they today represent the icing on the cake, rest assured that there is an entire new generation of highly talented, young leaders who will propel PMI to ever greater heights in the years and decades to come.
9) PMI will shortly open a new chapter in its history which, as you all know, has been marked by an enviable track record of success.
Over the last twenty years, PMI's shipment volume has grown at a compound annual rate of 4.8%, while underlying operating companies income has surged at a compound annual rate of 13.1%.
10) Our more recent history parallels this strong performance. Over the 2003 to 2007 period, cigarette shipment volume has grown at a compound annual rate of 3.7% and revenues, net of excise taxes, at a rate of 9.3%. Reported operating income has increased at an annual rate of 9.5%, while reported net earnings have increased by $2 billion or 50% over this four-year period, reflecting a compound annual growth rate of close to 11%.
11) The drivers of this strong income performance have been pricing, currency and acquisitions, partially offset by adverse volume/mix of some $900 million, and higher expenditures behind sales, marketing, R&D and administration of $800 million. The
 
adverse mix component of our earnings variance predominantly reflects a shift in geographic mix, as more of our growth has been generated by markets that yield lower, but nevertheless attractive, margins.
12) A frequent and legitimate complaint that we often hear from investors and that we wholeheartedly share, is that our organic volume/mix performance has lagged expectations. Another concern, often quoted in the same breath, is that PMI's presence and performance in emerging markets is insufficiently significant.
Let me address both issues.
It is an undeniable fact that our volume performance in several developed markets has suffered from a combination of adverse fiscal, regulatory and competitive developments that have simultaneously affected total cigarette consumption levels and put the premium segment we lead under pressure. Despite these headwinds, our performance in the 29 member countries of the OECD, excluding the United States, has been resilient. While our cigarette shipment volume has declined by 8% since 2003, OCI has increased by 29%, highlighting our ability to grow profitability in declining markets.
13) In non-OECD markets, a mixture of organic growth and acquisitions has enabled us to achieve a 48% increase in cigarette shipment volume over the same period and we have more than doubled our OCI.
14) Our share performance has been solid even in mature markets. Our share of OECD markets, excluding the USA, has grown by 1.2 share points to reach a level of 33.5%, while our share of non-OECD markets has increased by 5.3 share points to a total share of 20%.
15) As a result, we have achieved a very good geographic balance with slightly more than half our volume being generated outside the generally more mature OECD markets. These of course remain highly and increasingly profitable and the split in profitability is about two thirds OECD and one third non-OECD.
 
16) Could we have done better? Possibly. Can we going forward? Certainly, as Andr will shortly demonstrate to you.
Many of the issues that converged in several important markets to dampen our overall pace of growth are largely behind us and, importantly, we see nothing today on the horizon that we believe will have a dislocating impact of the magnitude we have had to swallow in the recent past.
This is a realistic expectation. The operating environment has improved significantly with governments more frequently adopting less discriminatory and fairer excise tax structures. In addition, we believe the competitive brand repositioning to lower price segments that we have witnessed is largely complete, partially resulting from a further wave of industry consolidation.
17) This less turbulent industry framework is also evidenced by our strong 2007 earnings performance and improving quarter to quarter operating momentum.
18) This brings me to our aspirations and ambitions for the future.
Quite simply, we aspire to deliver top-tier performance, not only within the tobacco industry, but within the broader, global consumer packaged goods industry. We believe that we can deliver strong, predictable and consistent growth benefiting, in part, from the attractive characteristics of our industry, which include solid pricing power, a cost base that is not prone to volatility in commodity costs, attractive margins and an inherent ability to generate strong cash flows. This will enable us to return significant amounts of cash through dividends and share repurchases to reward shareholders.
19) As announced in January, we project 2008 diluted earnings per share to grow by approximately 12% to 14% at the then prevailing exchange rates from a 2007 pro-forma adjusted base of $2.78.
20) Longer term, we target net revenue growth, net of excise taxes, of 4 to 6% a year on average with organic cigarette shipment volume increasing 1 to 2% a year; operating income growth of 6 to 8% a year on average; and EPS growth in the range of 10 to 12% a year on average.
 
I trustthat at the conclusion of our presentationyou will share our belief that these targets, while appropriately ambitious, can be delivered in a predictable and consistent manner.
21) I know full well that setting such growth targets is one thing, delivering them is another. Andr and Hermann will now describe how we intend to do so and why we are confident in our ability to deliver.
Ultimately, our success depends on our people and our brands. I am convinced that we have the focus, discipline, passion, creativity and determination within our organization, as well as the financial wherewithal, to grow our unparalleled brand portfolio in the years ahead.
22) Andr 
[Remarks by Mr. Calantzopoulos]
Thank you Louis.
23) Let me begin by summarizing the distinct attributes that I believe PMI offers investors. These include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24) Over the last two years, we have taken a number of organizational and portfolio actions to enhance our growth.
We have implemented a consumer insights-driven innovation process, aimed at anticipating consumer expectations and regulatory trends and improving the flow of innovative products and marketing initiatives that we can deploy rapidly to many markets.
25) We have shifted decision power and appropriate resources to our markets and focused them on consumers, customers and regulators.
26) We have simplified and centralized key internal processes and continued to optimize our supply chain as Hermann will cover later.
27) We have redefined the architecture of our key brands and their role in the PMI portfolio and, as appropriate, modified packaging, product and positioning. All these improvements are being deployed or are ready to be deployed.
28) We have adapted the structure and mission of our field forces to the new brand requirements and drastically reduced back office activities.
29) We have redeployed resources to direct consumer work, whilst undertaking trade related activities that reinforce our position as category leader.
30) Our scale, distribution footprint and superior field forces give us a unique ability to bring products to consumers fast, and at the highest levels of Point of Sale visibility and availability.
31) Finally, we have re-allocated our resources and adapted our organizational structure in order to ensure that we are fully ready to operate as an independent company.
32) These important organizational improvements have been implemented with impressive enthusiasm, speed and discipline by our people. They have already yielded significant results in terms of
 
creativity, anticipation, speed, marketing mix effectiveness and productivity to sustain and further widen our leadership position.
33) This chart shows for 2006, the last year for which comparable data is at present fully available, that PMI is significantly larger in volume terms than not only BAT but also the now expanded Japan Tobacco and Imperial. Our volume was 20% higher than that of BAT and nearly three times that of Imperial and Altadis combined.
PMI's lead is even more apparent in terms of profitability with net earnings in 2006 equivalent to the combined net earnings of BAT and Japan Tobacco, including Gallaher.
We anticipate that this very positive picture will be maintained once final 2007 numbers are available for all companies.
34) Our geographic balance and our global reach have enabled us to develop strong market share positions in each of our four regional segments. PMI is the clear leader in the European Union, well ahead of the expanded Imperial.
In Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or "EEMA", we estimate that we are level with the expanded Japan Tobacco and are ahead of BAT in spite of our limited presence in sub-Saharan Africa.
In Asia, excluding China, we believe we became the industry leader in 2007 following our acquisition of Lakson Tobacco.
Finally, in Latin America, we are a strong number two. These regional shares not only outline our strengths, but also underscore the ample room for further growth.
35) In the top thirty markets by volume outside the USA, PMI has achieved market leadership in 11 and is number two in a further 8. We have highlighted in red the markets on this list which are not OECD members.
36) We are not only the leader in terms of key markets, but also the indisputable worldwide leader in brands. , with a 2007 volume of 311 billion units, is larger than the next three best selling
Marlboro
 
international brands combined and larger than the seven that follow them. Another comparison is that significantly outsells the total combined volume of all of BAT's Global Drive Brands. And if we were to single out Gold, it would be the second largest brand after Red.
Marlboro
Marlboro
Marlboro
37) is by far the best selling international tobacco brand and remains iconic. PMI would not be PMI without but, at the same time, PMI is much more than alone.
Marlboro
Marlboro
Marlboro
As you can see on this slide, our brand portfolio contains seven of the top 15 international brands, including . The volume of our other six brands, namely , the brand, , , and totaled 265 billion units in 2007. This is more than the total volume of Japan Tobacco's , and brands.
Marlboro
L&M
Philip Morris
Bond Street
Chesterfield
Parliament
Lark
Mild 7
Winston
Camel
38) This global leadership and presence is the foundation of our superior performance as it provides us with a comprehensive understanding of both global and individual market consumer trends.
39) We are able to reach our consumers through efficient distribution networks, supplemented by our excellent focused sales teams.
40) We generate economies of scale across the value chain of our industry, including purchasing, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and R&D.
41) The size of our key brands allows us to develop and implement impactful and global, cost-effective marketing programs.
42) Our superior infrastructure encompassing 160 countries provides us with an excellent platform for the geographic expansion of these brands.
43) We have the flexibility to redeploy our resources to those markets where the impact of such investments generates the highest returns.
 
44) And last but not least, our leading position in the higher margin premium segment creates tremendous operating cash flows which are key to generating superior returns for our shareholders.
45) We do not intend to rest on our laurels. We have put in place a comprehensive set of strategies to secure PMI's long-term growth. Enhanced consumer understanding and innovation will reinforce our brand portfolio and improve our volume and market share performance going forward.
46) We will expand geographically through new market penetration and acquisitions, such as our recent entries into Algeria and Bangladesh and our acquisitions in Colombia and Indonesia.
47) We will also reinforce our position in all profitable consumer segments, particularly those where we are currently under-represented.
48) We will continue to improve our margins through optimal pricing decisions.
49) We will seek a regulatory regime governing our industry that is comprehensive, fair, and science based and a fiscal regime that is equitable and reasonable.
50) We will boost our organizational effectiveness and speed to market and generate further productivity savings.
51) We will attract, motivate and retain the best global talent; and
52) Last, but by no means least, we will use our strong and increasing operating cash flow and balance sheet strength to offer increased shareholder returns beyond those that are generated by our earnings' growth alone, while retaining ample financial flexibility to further grow the business.
53) So what do we intend to do to enhance the performance of our terrific stable of brands?
 
Let me first outline the portfolio segment opportunities that we believe exist, to provide appropriate context to our new product plans and positioning. Our objective is to reinforce our leading position or address segments where we are currently under-represented.
Please keep in mind our 25.2% share of the international market excluding China as a reference.
54) We are the clear leaders in the premium segment, both in OECD and non-OECD markets excluding China, with some 50% segment share in both.
55) We have achieved a good base for further growth with a segment share of over 20% in the mid-price segment as well as in the low-price segment in OECD markets, where margins are attractive.
56) In terms of flavor segmentation, we have secured a strong position in the full flavor segment in OECD markets and in the "lights" segment worldwide. However, we are currently under-represented in the ultra light flavor segment in both OECD and non-OECD markets.
57) Menthol is a segment that we estimate has been growing at an annual rate of 3%. With a 38% menthol segment share in OECD markets and 28% overall, we are well placed to take advantage of this trend.
58) In terms of format, the traditional diameter cigarette remains the consumer favorite. However, there is an increasing consumer trend towards cigarettes with a slim or super-slim diameter in a number of markets, as highlighted on this slide.
59) Our brand portfolio strategy addresses these broad opportunities. Our top priority is to improve the performance of through innovation, and to reinforce our premium segment leadership, in particular in the lighter-taste segments.
Marlboro
60) Our optimism with regard to future growth prospects could not be more robust. is the industry icon, which in the eyes of consumers across the globe stands for quality, prestige and a
Marlboro's
Marlboro
 
unique flavor promise. It enjoys tremendous trust and respect. remains aspirational with an excellent demographic profile.
Marlboro
61) The demographic profile of a brand is an excellent measure of the brand's inherent aggregate strength. This chart compares 2007 smoker share in the Legal Age minimum 18 to 24 age group, which I will refer to as "Young Adult Smokers", shown in red, with the brand's overall smoker share, shown in blue. In all but one of these 12 key countries across our four geographic regions, namely Germany, the share difference is positive, which augurs well for outlook.
Marlboro's
Marlboro's
62) Over the 2003 through 2007 period, volume decreased from 320 billion units to 311 billion, representing a 0.7% annual decline. While this is obviously unsatisfactory, it does provide proof of the brand's resilience given the magnitude of the difficulties we faced in several key markets as Louis mentioned earlier.
Marlboro
63) For example, excluding Germany alone, where sales dropped due to downtrading to much lower taxed other tobacco products, as well as low price cigarettes, the volume of shipments increased by 9 billion units. This represents an annual growth rate of 0.8%, driven by the brand's strong performance in emerging markets such as the Philippines, Romania, Russia, Serbia and Ukraine.
Marlboro
Marlboro
64) Having said that, we recognize that we were slow to exploit participation in the growing trend towards lighter tasting cigarettes in certain Eastern European and Asian markets. Gold in particular was affected by the rich flavor perception of its parent in these markets.
Marlboro's
Marlboro
65) In addition, although continues to outscore competitive brands on virtually all image attributes, consumers expect and want to be the industry innovator.
Marlboro
Marlboro
66) So what are our plans going forward?
A key strategy we will pursue is to establish more distinctive identities for Gold and Green. We will clearly differentiate
Marlboro
Marlboro
 
them from Red and increase their appeal to consumer groups and segments that has not traditionally addressed, while retaining unique characteristics and heritage.
Marlboro
Marlboro
Marlboro's
67) In this new architecture, Red's positioning will continue to be anchored upon its unique rich flavor that represents today's masculine values of freedom, independence, mastery of one's destiny and being in charge, focused and driven.
Marlboro
Marlboro
68) Gold's positioning will be refined to become the brand that explores new dimensions in smoking and is progressive, open-minded, casually elegant, inventive and confident.
Marlboro
69) Green will be the brand that provides refreshing sensations, is easy-going and extroverted.
Marlboro
70) This new architecture will be established through appropriate packaging upgrades, line extensions, effective consumer communications and continued quality improvements.
We believe that these refinements will reinforce consumer appeal and enhance its growth prospects.
Marlboro's
71) In the recent past, we have intensified our innovation efforts behind . These product initiatives, which were essentially anchored on Red, have yielded good results individually and have improved the leadership and modernity image of the entire brand family.
Marlboro
Marlboro
72) One of our first innovations was the development and roll out of . This is a shorter cigarette with a wider diameter that provides a smoother smoking experience. It is sold in the innovative "lighter pack" and is available in full flavor, "lights" and menthol variants. Based on what we have learnt since its launch, we are currently modifying certain product parameters of with a view to rolling out new variants later this year.
Marlboro Wides
Marlboro Wides
73) is a rich, flavorful, shorter cigarette, currently being sold nationally in Turkey. Initial results have been positive both in terms of consumer profile and in-switchers from key
Marlboro Intense
 
competitive brands. In the regions where we tested the brand, it rapidly achieved a 0.4 market share with modest cannibalization. We plan to role out into several additional markets during 2008.
Marlboro Intense
74) In Indonesia, we launched in a kretek version in June, in order to leverage the high awareness and prestige of the core franchise while responding to local taste preferences. Results so far are very good. This is the best performing premium kretek launch in many years. It achieved a 0.3% national share during the fourth quarter of 2007, with a regional high of 0.9% in East Java. Importantly, since the launch of the kretek variant, the rate of growth of the entire franchise has accelerated. The overall family reached a market share of 4.6% during the fourth quarter of 2007, a gain of 0.7 share points compared to the same period the previous year.
Marlboro
Marlboro
75) is a real break-through product development. It has a unique four chamber filter including a tobacco plug for flavor. It is offered in an innovative slide pack. It builds on the heritage while providing a more flavorful alternative to "super" and "ultra" light consumers. It is generally sold at a premium to the family.
Marlboro Filter Plus
Marlboro
Marlboro
76) has performed strongly in Korea where it was first launched at the end of 2006, helping the brand family achieve a record share of 4.2% in 2007 and an impressive 22% share among Young Adult Smokers.
Marlboro Filter Plus
77) The brand has now been expanded to a further seven markets that are all characterized by a growing consumer trend towards lighter tasting products. Initial results are very positive. For example, achieved a monthly 0.8% market share in Moscow less than six months after its launch, and 0.6% in Kiev, one share point in Almaty and a 0.9% market share in Bucharest in just three months. Amongst Young Adult Smokers, the variant has already achieved smoker shares roughly double its market shares. Furthermore, consumer research in Russia indicates that the new variant has enhanced 's overall brand image and personality.
Marlboro Filter Plus
Marlboro
 
Further geographic expansion is planned for 2008 and beyond.
78) To support our leading position in menthol and to expand the franchise, we have developed a range of new line extensions that provide new refreshing sensations. , launched in June in Japan, achieved a 0.4% market share during the second half of 2007.
Marlboro
Marlboro Ice Mint
79) As shown on this chart, and , which were launched in April in Hong Kong, achieved a 2.6% market share during the fourth quarter of the year.
Marlboro Crisp Mint
Marlboro Fresh Mint
80) So, we are very excited by our new approach to , the positive results and energizing effects of the new products already in the market and the innovation pipeline that we are building.
Marlboro
81) To further grow our share of the global premium segment, we plan to reinforce and geographically expand and , which both complement .
Parliament
Virginia Slims
Marlboro
82) is a prestige above premium brand that provides a refined smoking experience with its elegant packaging and unique recessed filter. The new packaging and campaign, which you see here, have enhanced the brand's consumer appeal. Indeed, volume increased by over 3 billion units or 12% last year to reach 31 billion units driven by strong momentum in Korea, Russia, Turkey and Ukraine. In Russia, is as large a brand as and , while in Turkey its market share of 5.9% in 2007 was more than half that of .
Parliament
Parliament's
Parliament
Marlboro
Kent
Marlboro
83) While is now also available in a slims format, is our stand alone premium offering in this category. volume was up 2% last year. This performance was spurred by innovative line extensions. Menthol, launched in Japan in September, achieved a 0.4% market share during the fourth quarter.
Parliament
Virginia Slims
Virginia Slims
Virginia Slims Noire
84) The attractive black and white pack concept is another innovation that is supporting the brand franchise.
Virginia Slims Uno
Virginia
 
, launched in October, already reached a 0.2% market share in Greece in the fourth quarter, a result that surpassed our expectations. In Romania, the brand family achieved a 0.8% market share and a 22% segment share in 2007 and this is expected to be boosted in 2008 by the recent launch of .
Slims Uno
Virginia Slims Uno
The successful Virginia franchise is being extended to additional markets.
Slims
85) Although we have improved our share of the mid-price segment to reach 22%, we are still under-represented in this important part of the market.
86) We have four terrific mid-price brands in our portfolio, , , the brand and , with complementary positionings and different geographic strengths. These brands recorded a combined volume of over 180 billion units in 2007, comparable to Imperial's current total volume excluding Altadis, and are collectively poised for further growth in 2008 and beyond.
L&M
Chesterfield
Philip Morris
Muratti
87) is our leading mid-price brand and it enjoys wide geographic coverage. Its initial success was driven by strong results in Eastern Europe and more recently in markets as diverse as Egypt, Germany, Poland and Thailand. Indeed, is today the largest brand in the European Union behind .
L&M
L&M
Marlboro
88) While it achieved spectacular results in Eastern Europe, 's volume has declined in this particular geography since 2005, due principally to its full-flavor heritage in the face of a rapid shift in consumer preference for lighter and smoother tasting products.
L&M
89) To turn the tide, we repositioned as the progressive international mid-price brand delivering smooth taste. The re-launch began last year in Romania, Russia and Ukraine.
L&M
The initial results are fully in line with our expectations particularly in terms of product smoothness, pack modernity and image perception. In-switching is coming from target competitive brands, with the number of Young Adult Smoker in-switchers doubling, and gender demographics becoming more balanced. Given the magnitude of the
 
change, we believe that a full turn around of will take some two years to complete in this important region.
L&M
90) With volume growth of 16% in 2007 to 36 billion units, continues to perform very strongly. Its share increased in almost every market, including Italy, up 0.4 points to 3.3%; Spain, up 0.3 points to 9.7%; and Ukraine, up 1.5 points to 6.1%. In Ukraine, now outsells both and .
Chesterfield
Chesterfield
L&M
Winston
We are mid-way through the worldwide roll-out of new packaging and a new communications platform for the brand. We are confident that these actions coupled with further geographic expansion will sustain 's growth momentum going forward.
Chesterfield
91) Our two other mid-priced brands are also performing well. volume rose 3% last year to 37 billion units with strong performances recorded in Argentina, France and Italy.
Philip Morris'
92) registered a promising 5% volume growth in 2007 driven primarily by Turkey. As you know, we acquired additional geographic rights to in late 2006 and plan to expand the brand into these geographies.
Muratti
Muratti
93) The low-price segment remains the largest internationally. We have and will continue to reinforce our position in all markets where this segment is profitable. The combined volume of our low-price international brands, , and has more than doubled from 30 billion units in 2003 to 66 billion in 2007.
Bond Street
Next
Red&White
94) We also own a number of vibrant local brands such as in Italy, in Mexico, A in Indonesia and in Colombia to name just a few.
Diana
Delicados
Mild
Boston
95) Other Tobacco Products, often tax-driven substitutes for low-price cigarettes, have received greater focus from PMI over the last three years. Our growth momentum is best illustrated by our success in Germany where we have developed a wide range of product innovations. These include the "tobacco block", which I would describe as the perfect make your own cigarette device. In 2007, we
 
achieved an OTP volume in Germany equivalent to over 5 billion units and our category share surpassed 10% for the first time.
96) More broadly, across the EU, innovations, brand and geographic expansion have driven our estimated category share up from 2 share points in 2004 to 8 share points in 2007, a promising start that highlights our ability to perform strongly beyond our core cigarette expertise.
97) In 2007, PMI accounted for an estimated 15.6% of the international market, and 25.2% excluding China. We are convinced that our strong brand portfolio, coupled with our new consumer based innovation pipeline, our re-energized organization and the benefits derived from our scale and superior infrastructure will enable us to gain market share from our main international competitors. Also, outside China, there is still a 29% share of the international market that is predominantly controlled by smaller scale, local companies.
In the international market, there are still more than five out of every six adult smokers who are consuming brands that are not manufactured and sold by PMI. This represents a formidable potential for growth going forward.
98) In particular, PMI today has small or no presence in four major markets, China, India, Bangladesh and Vietnam, which have a combined cigarette volume of 2.3 trillion units. These markets, which account for some 40% of total international cigarette consumption, represent clear opportunities for further growth in the mid to long-term.
99) Let me now give you a brief update on China and our strategic partnership with the China National Tobacco Company. We are pleased with the progress to date and the relationship of mutual trust that has been established at the most senior level as well as between our respective affiliates. Our joint venture is now operational and we have started the commercialization of Chinese brands in Europe. They will be gradually deployed in several markets around the world. We also finalized the plans for the launch of licensed on the Chinese market. This is expected to take place this
Marlboro
 
summer. While we do not foresee a material impact on our volume and profitability in the near future, we believe this long-term strategic cooperation will prove to be mutually beneficial and form the foundation for strong long-term growth.
100) To supplement our organic growth we will continue to seek out attractive acquisition opportunities. PMI has an excellent track record in acquiring and integrating companies. Our businesses in Central Europe, Latin America and in Indonesia are excellent illustrations. While I will not provide specific examples, rest assured that we will continue to assess potential opportunities across the globe in both the cigarette and other tobacco categories that meet our stringent financial and strategic criteria.
101) Another central element of our strategy is to successfully deal with the challenges and opportunities posed by evolving regulatory and fiscal environments.
102) For the near term, we expect that the regulatory focus will continue to be on the traditional areas of marketing, health warnings, including graphic ones, public smoking bans and descriptors. In the longer term, we expect the focus will gradually shift towards the product, including ingredients, smoking constituent levels and related performance standards. These matters constitute largely un-chartered territory for regulators, and we see a good opportunity for PMI to provide expertise and comprehensive solutions as a result of our transparent and supportive approach to reasonable regulation.
103) Regulation is of course not new to PMI. Many of our markets such as Australia, France, Italy, Korea, Malaysia and Thailand, to name a few, have been heavily regulated for many years and we have competed very successfully in such markets, significantly increasing our market share and profitability.
In fact we believe that, given our public affairs expertise, unparalleled R&D capabilities, state of the art manufacturing facilities and ability to anticipate regulatory trends and integrate them into our long term business plans, we are in a strong position to compete successfully.
 
104) We see regulation as a means to create a level playing field, requiring all manufacturers and all products to comply with the same high standards and we believe regulation can help address the problem of both illicit trade and youth smoking.
This does not mean that we will accept each and every regulatory proposal. We will vigorously defend our right to commercialize products that adult consumers enjoy and our ability to communicate directly with these consumers. And we will oppose product regulation, where sound scientific evidence indicates it is very unlikely to foster harm reduction.
105) We believe that an effective tobacco control policy must incorporate harm reduction through the product.
106) We are therefore vigorously pursuing the development of products that we hope will substantially reduce the risk of diseases, as well as the creation of risk measurement methods to reduce the product assessment cycles, which today are limited to long term epidemiological studies. We believe both are achievable. We are also seeking regulatory frameworks to support the development, evaluation, commercialization and risk categorization of such products.
107) We are encouraged that leading countries in the field of tobacco regulation are beginning to recognize the need for such an approach. We hope that, in the near future, adult smokers who do not choose to quit tobacco usage will have the opportunity and the right to choose from a selection of products that, following appropriate government review, have been deemed to present less risk of disease than conventional products.
108) Regarding the fiscal outlook, as Louis mentioned, we do see an improved, fairer and more predictable excise tax environment going forward.
109) There is a clear trend in most countries towards excise tax structures that do not discriminate or discriminate less against premium products and are more consistent with public health views that all tobacco products should be taxed at the same level. 22 of our
 
top 25 OCI markets have in place effective Minimum Excise Taxes, a Minimum Retail Price mechanism or very high specific tax structures, which are much more conducive to fiscal predictability.
110) Indonesia, for example, introduced a specific element in its excise tax system for the first time in 2007 and earlier this year increased this amount while reducing the ad-valorem component as part of a planned excise tax restructuring program.
111) Russia also made important changes to its excise tax system in three key respects. First, through the introduction of the Minimum Excise Tax concept in 2005 as a percentage of the net ex factory price. Second, through the introduction of a specific MET in January 2007. And, third, through the government's commitment for a predominantly specific excise tax regime for the next three years.
112) PMI has developed a world class R&D organization and is completing a dedicated new research center in Neuchatel, Switzerland. PMI will have the rights outside the USA to all developments that have taken place under the former PM USA and PMI R&D umbrella.
113) One of the key tasks of our R&D and product development team is the development of an expanded pipeline of innovative products. We have excellent capabilities in the key areas of blending, packaging and cigarette and filter construction for conventional products.
114) The second key task is quality assurance and regulatory compliance, both of which play an increasingly important role in our more highly regulated environment. We believe that we have developed a competitive edge in this field.
115) R&D is of course not only about supporting today's business. We have hired top scientists to undertake research that we hope will enable us to better understand the mechanism of smoking related diseases as part of our efforts to develop potentially reduced risk products.
116) As you know we have in test market the electronically heated cigarette, "Heatbar", and we expect to have more types of products ready for testing over the next three years.
 
117) Going forward, we foresee annual spending on R&D to be approximately $300 million, split roughly evenly between conventional products and next generation products.
118) I'll now turn the floor over to Hermann who will present our cost reduction and productivity initiatives and the financial strategy we will pursue to enhance shareholder returns.
[Remarks by Mr. Waldemer]
Thank you, Andr.
119) Let me start first with a review of the evolution of our reported operating income per thousand cigarettes. This has grown since 2003 from $8.42 to $10.44, representing a compound annual growth rate of 5.5%. 's marginal contribution increased at an even more impressive rate of 9.5%.
Marlboro
120) Moreover, during this period, in spite of our strong growth in lower margin emerging markets, our operating margin has increased slightly, reaching 40% on an adjusted basis in 2007.
How do we stand today in comparison with our peers? Our adjusted operating margin is some 10 percentage points higher than that of BAT and Japan Tobacco. Once Imperial has integrated Altadis into its numbers, we will be best in class and going forward our goal is to widen the gap further versus our peers.
121) On the cost side, let's compare hard numbers that are not influenced by allocations or accounting treatments and therefore look at total operating cost straight from the respective reported income statements of the four major international cigarette companies.
Despite our focus on higher cost premium brands, we are already today almost at par with Imperial in terms of average operating costs per thousand cigarettes. Japan Tobacco's costs are 12% higher and BAT's costs are 21% higher than our $16.40.
122) My next point of comparison is efficiency in manufacturing.
 
PMI has the best manufacturing footprint in the industry with an average volume of 18 billion units per factory today. This compares to 13 billion per factory for BAT and Imperial.
123) We have achieved this through our sourcing strategy and restructuring actions that have included investments to expand and improve key factories, particularly in Asia, Central and Eastern Europe and Turkey, the consolidation of production in the Czech Republic, the closure of our factory in Hungary and the closure of our leaf processing facility in Virginia. We are currently in the process of closing our Munich factory.
124) Our top ten factories produce 60% of our worldwide volume and our top five factories have a capacity equal to the entire volume of Imperial and Altadis combined. Our state of the art Western European factories in Bergen-op-Zoom (Netherlands) and in Berlin focus on long production runs.
125) Our four low-cost Central European EU factories absorb the more complex and shorter production runs. The average output in these four factories will increase to 31 billion cigarettes by 2010 compared to 12.5 billion back in 2004.
126) We have generated significant productivity gains in manufacturing and are relentlessly continuing these efforts. In spite of the resourcing of 57 billion units from PM USA to PMI, which by itself will generate $179 million of annual cost savings by 2009, we expect to have reduced our fixed manufacturing headcount by 30% over the 2004 to 2010 period.
127) This will drive a forecast 14% reduction in our fixed costs per thousand over the same time period.
Major efficiency improvements are being generated by the implementation of what we call the "Clustering Model", whereby we group specific activities, such as operations planning, procurement and supply chain and product development, in selected factories. This model enables us to provide better brand support and increase speed to market, to foster synergies and best practices, to eliminate duplication and therefore reduce manufacturing costs.
 
128) Going forward, we see significant productivity savings from a new focus on eliminating non strategic SKU's that do not provide adequate returns. Our aim is not only to reduce the number of variants, but also to streamline product specifications, blends and non-tobacco materials. In addition to generating cost savings, we will thus reduce working capital requirements as well as capital expenditures on equipment.
129) Overall, the net cumulative effect of these manufacturing initiatives and savings by 2010 is expected to be approximately $850 million.
We, however, anticipate some offsetting cost increases. We project leaf costs to cumulatively increase by $425 million and direct materials increases of $125, million totaling $550 million over the same period.
130) One issue is the indirect local currency impact on the Dollar denominated price of tobacco leaf. For example, the strengthening of the Brazilian Real had a negative impact of $56 million on our 2007 cost basis, which was not captured in our currency variance.
131) Let me now turn to our third area of focus: G&A and procurement, where we are increasing organizational effectiveness and will deliver further cost savings in three main areas.
First, we have eliminated some 400 positions in Switzerland and our regional headquarters in Hong Kong and New York and have transferred 100 positions back out to the markets for a net saving of 300 positions, in line with our decision to empower the markets with greater resources and more decision authority.
132) Second, we have developed and deployed Shared Service Centers for our Finance, Human Resources and Procurement functions.
133) Third, we have deployed a standardized and worldwide integrated SAP network, combined with established centers of expertise.
134) Fourth, we will further optimize our selling and promotional expenses.
 
135) These four initiatives are expected to generate cumulative savings of over $450 million over the next three years.
136) Finally, let me share with you our three-year cost strategy for the EU Region. This strategy includes specific spending and cost saving targets for the region and each individual market to substantially reduce our back office infrastructure.
This strategy is expected to generate $250 million of cumulative cost savings over the next three years.
137) These combined initiatives are expected to generate gross savings of more than $1.5 billion and net savings of one billion Dollars, which will allow us to judiciously re-invest into the growth of our business, cover other cost increases and deliver robust earnings growth.
138) Let me now focus on capital structure, cash flow and shareholder return.
139) We will pursue prudent financial policies to secure solid investment grade ratings. We have obtained PMI's credit ratings from the agencies. I am pleased to inform you that they are A2 / A / A+.
140) PMI has secured committed revolving and term credit facilities of $9.1 billion in total. Shortly after the spin-off is effective, we will start our US and European commercial paper programs. We also intend to term out a significant portion of our debt by accessing the global capital markets in 2008 and 2009.
141) PMI is generating outstanding cash flows. Our operating pro-forma cash flow was $5.4 billion in 2007 and it is expected to reach a cumulative total of about $22 billion over the next three years, representing an average annual increase of 10 to 12% a year, driven by higher net earnings and tight management of our working capital requirements. In addition, we expect capital expenditures going forward to match our depreciation and amortization.
 
142) This strong cash flow, supplemented by borrowings, will be used to fund dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions and other investments in the business.
Our dividend policy anticipates a pay-out ratio of 65%. The initial quarterly dividend rate has been set at $0.46 per share.
The Board of Directors authorized in January a share repurchase program of $13 billion over two years.
As a result, in total, we expect to return approximately $21 billion to our shareholders over the next 2 years.
143) This brings me to one of the key charts that deserves repetition: our financial and volume growth expectations.
As announced in January, we project 2008 diluted earnings per share to grow by approximately 12% to 14% at the then at prevailing exchange rates from a 2007 pro-forma adjusted base of $2.78. It is still early in the year, but if exchange rates stay were they are now, our EPS growth rate could well exceed our guidance by up to two percentage points. However, it would be imprudent to call this now and we will revise our guidance if necessary as the year unfolds.
144) Based on our strengths, our strategies and our assessment of the improving business environment going forward, we expect to achieve the following longer term growth rates:
 
 
 
145) We strongly believe that these are realistic and achievable targets. I would nevertheless like to outline some of the potential upsides and downsides that go along with this outlook.
Exchange rates can have a substantial impact and, of course are hard to predict. For example, every one Euro cent movement up or down has an impact of approximately $20 million on our OCI at today's rates.
146) Potential threats or downside risks include:
 
 
 
 
147) We believe that these risks are balanced by a number of potential opportunities or upsides:
 
 
 
148) Let me conclude by reiterating the key reasons why we believe that Philip Morris International represents a compelling investment:
We are the global leader and have the greatest scale. We lead by every measure, be it volume, revenue, profitability or market presence.
149) We have achieved an excellent geographic balance between mature and emerging markets, with clear opportunities for further profit expansion in the former and profit and volume expansion in the latter.
150) We have a world class brand portfolio, led by the only truly global brand, , and containing a total of seven of the top 15 international brands.
Marlboro
151) With 15.6% of the world market, PMI has significant opportunities for further volume expansion, which will be driven by innovation, consumer uptrading to our leading premium brands in emerging markets and geographic expansion.
 
152) I have described for you our productivity initiatives that we expect to drive net cost reductions of $1 billion by 2010.
153) Our tremendous cash flow is forecast to reach around $22 billion over the next three years.
154) We plan to return some $21 billion in cash to our shareholders over the next two years.
155) And we expect to achieve 10% to 12% longer term growth in Earnings per Share, which we believe will measure up well not only against our tobacco peers but against other leading global consumer packaged goods companies.
156) Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your interest in our company. Louis, Andr and I will now be happy to answer your questions.
 


