FILE:PM/PM-8K-20081117152908.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 17, 2008, Philip Morris International Inc. (the "Company") issued $1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.875% Notes due 2014 (the "Notes"). The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of April 25, 2008, by and between the Company and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee").
In connection with the issuance of the Notes, on November 12, 2008, the Company entered into a Terms Agreement (the "Terms Agreement") with Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co., as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell the Notes to the Underwriters. The provisions of an Underwriting Agreement, dated as of April 25, 2008 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), are incorporated by reference in the Terms Agreement.
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Prospectus, dated April 25, 2008, and a Prospectus Supplement (the "Prospectus Supplement"), dated November 12, 2008 (Registration No. 333-150449), in connection with the public offering of the Notes.
The Notes are subject to certain customary covenants, including limitations on the Company's ability, with significant exceptions, to incur debt secured by liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions. The Company may redeem all, but not part, of the Notes upon the occurrence of specified tax events as described in the Prospectus Supplement.
Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually on March 17 and September 17, commencing March 17, 2009, to holders of record on the preceding March 2 or September 2, as the case may be. Interest on the Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The Notes will mature on March 17, 2014.
The Notes will be the Company's senior unsecured obligations and will rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company's existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness.
For a complete description of the terms and conditions of the Underwriting Agreement, the Terms Agreement and the Notes, please refer to such agreements and the form of Notes, each of which is incorporated herein by reference and attached to this report as Exhibits 1.1, 1.2 and 4.1, respectively.
Certain of the Underwriters and their respective affiliates have, from time to time, performed, and may in the future perform, various financial advisory, commercial and investment banking services for the Company, for which they received or will receive customary fees and expenses. Certain affiliates of the Underwriters are lenders under the Company's 5-Year Revolving Credit Facility dated May 12, 2005 (the "2005 Facility") and 5-Year Revolving Credit Facility and 3-Year Revolving Credit Facility dated December 4, 2007 (the "2007 Facility"). Citibank, N.A., an affiliate of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank AG London, an affiliate of Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., an affiliate of Goldman, Sachs & Co., Societe Generale, an affiliate of SG Americas Securities, LLC, and BNP Paribas, an affiliate of BNP Paribas Securities Corp., are lenders under the 2005 Facility and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Bank USA, an affiliate of Goldman, Sachs & Co., Societe Generale, an affiliate of SG Americas Securities, LLC, and BNP Paribas London Branch, an affiliate of BNP Paribas Securities Corp., are lenders under the 2007 Facility. HSBC Bank plc, an affiliate of the Trustee, is a lender under the 2005 Facility and 2007 Facility. In addition, certain of the Underwriters and their respective affiliates act as dealers in connection with the Company's commercial paper programs.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: November 17, 2008
 

Exhibit 1.2
November 12, 2008
P M I I.
HILIP
ORRIS
NTERNATIONAL
NC
120 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017
 
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen:
On behalf of the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto and for their respective accounts, we offer to purchase, on and subject to the terms and conditions of the Underwriting Agreement relating to Debt Securities and Warrants to Purchase Debt Securities dated as of April 25, 2008 in connection with Philip Morris International Inc.'s registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-150449) and which is incorporated herein by reference (the ""), the following securities on the following terms:
Underwriting Agreement
Title:
6.875% Notes due 2014 (the "").
Notes
Principal Amount:
$1,250,000,000.
Interest Rate:
6.875% per annum, from November 17, 2008, payable semiannually in arrears on March 17 and September 17, commencing March 17, 2009, to holders of record on the preceding March 2 or September 2, as the case may be.
Maturity:
March 17, 2014.
Currency of Denomination:
United States Dollars ($).
Currency of Payment:
United States Dollars ($).
Form and Denomination:
Book-entry form only represented by one or more global securities deposited with The Depository Trust Company, or DTC, Clearstream Banking, , or Clearstream, or Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., or Euroclear, in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
socit anonyme
Conversion Provisions:
None.
:
Optional Tax Redemption
The Company may redeem all, but not part, of the Notes of each series upon the occurrence of specified tax events described under the caption "Description of Notes  Redemption for Tax Reasons" in the prospectus supplement.
Option to Elect Repayment:
None.
Sinking Fund:
None.
Listing:
Application shall be made by the Company to list the Notes on the New York Stock Exchange.
Delayed Delivery Contracts:
None.
Payment of Additional Amounts:
In addition, the Company shall pay Additional Amounts to holders as and to the extent set forth under the caption "Description of NotesPayment of Additional Amounts" in the prospectus supplement.
Purchase Price:
99.162% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from November 17, 2008.
 
Expected Reoffering Price:
99.512% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from November 17, 2008.
Names and Addresses of Representatives of the Several Underwriters:
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
388 Greenwich Street
New York, New York 10013
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
60 Wall Street, 4th Floor
New York, New York 10005
Attn: Investment Grade Debt Capital Markets  Syndicate Desk
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
85 Broad Street
New York, New York 10004
Attn: Registration
The respective principal amounts of the Debt Securities to be severally purchased by each of the Underwriters are set forth opposite their names in Schedule A hereto.
Except as set forth below, the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement are incorporated herein by reference and the following provisions are hereby added thereto and made a part thereof:
1. For purposes of the Underwriting Agreement, the "" is 6:30 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of this Terms Agreement.
Applicable Time
2. For purposes of Section 6 of the Underwriting Agreement, the only information furnished to the Company by the Underwriters for use in the prospectus supplement consists of the following information: the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the third paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" in the prospectus supplement and the information contained in the fifth, sixth and seventh paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting" in the prospectus supplement. In addition, subsection (a) of Section 6 of the Underwriting Agreement is hereby amended by replacing "Pricing Prospectus" with "Pricing Prospectus or the Prospectus".
3. The following selling restrictions apply to the offer and sale of the Notes:
 
(a) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that it has not offered, sold or delivered and it will not offer, sell or deliver, directly or indirectly, any of the Notes or distribute the Prospectus, or any other offering material relating to the Notes, in or from any jurisdiction except under circumstances that will result in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations thereof and that will not impose any obligations on the Company except as agreed to with the Company in advance of such offer, sale or delivery.
(b) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that in relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a ""), with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that Relevant Member State, which we refer to as the Relevant Implementation Date, it has not made and will not make an offer of Notes to the public in that Relevant Member State prior to the publication of a prospectus in relation to the Notes which has been approved by the competent authority in that Relevant Member State or, where appropriate, approved in another Relevant Member State and notified to the competent authority in that Relevant Member State, all in accordance with the Prospectus Directive, except that it may, with effect from and including the Relevant Implementation Date, make an offer of Notes to the public in that Relevant Member State at any time:
Relevant Member State
(1) to legal entities which are authorized or regulated to operate in the financial markets or, if not so authorized or regulated, whose corporate purpose is solely to invest in securities;
(2) to any legal entity which has two or more of (1) an average of at least 250 employees during the last financial year; (2) a total balance sheet of more than 43,000,000 and (3) an annual net turnover of more than 50,000,000, as shown in its last annual or consolidated accounts;
(3) to fewer than 100 natural or legal persons (other than qualified investors as defined in the Prospectus Directive) subject to obtaining the prior consent of the representatives for any such offer; or
(4) in any other circumstances which do not require the publication of a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 of the Prospectus Directive.
For the purposes of this provision, the expression an "offer of notes to the public" in relation to any Notes in any Relevant Member State means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and the Notes to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase or subscribe the Notes, as the same may be varied in that Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in that Member State and the expression "Prospectus Directive" means Directive 2003/71/EC and includes any relevant implementing measure in each Relevant Member State.
 
(c) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that (1) it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 (the "") received by it in connection with the issue or sale of the Notes in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Company; and (2) it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Notes in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
FSMA
(d) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that (1) it has not offered or sold and will not offer or sell in Hong Kong, by means of any document, any Notes other than (A) to persons whose ordinary business is to buy or sell shares or debentures (whether as principal or agent); or (B) to "professional investors" as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571) of Hong Kong and any rules made under that Ordinance; or (C) in other circumstances which do not result in the document being a "prospectus" as defined in the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 32) of Hong Kong or which do not constitute an offer to the public within the meaning of that Ordinance; and (2) it has not issued or had in its possession for the purposes of issue, and will not issue or have in its possession for the purposes of issue, whether in Hong Kong or elsewhere, any advertisement, invitation or document relating to the Notes, which is directed at, or the contents of which are likely to be accessed or read by, the public of Hong Kong (except if permitted to do so under the securities laws of Hong Kong) other than with respect to Notes which are or are intended to be disposed of only to persons outside Hong Kong or only to "professional investors" as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance and any rules made under that Ordinance.
(e) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that it will not offer or sell the Notes or make the Notes the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase nor may it circulate or distribute the Prospectus or any other document or material in connection with the offer or sale or invitation for subscription or purchase of any Notes, whether directly or indirectly, to any person in Singapore other than (1) to an institutional investor pursuant to Section 274 of the Securities and Futures Act, Chapter 289 of Singapore (the ""), (2) to a relevant person, or any person pursuant to Section 275(1A) of the Securities and Futures Act, and in accordance with the conditions specified in Section 275 of the Securities and Futures Act, or (3) pursuant to, and in accordance with the conditions of, any other applicable provision of the Securities and Futures Act.
Securities and Futures Act
(f) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that it will not offer or sell any Notes, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to, or for the benefit of, any resident of Japan (which term as used herein means any person resident in Japan, including any corporation or other entity organized under the laws of Japan), or to others for re-offering or resale, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to, or for the benefit of, a resident of Japan except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of, and otherwise in compliance with, the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended) and any other applicable laws, regulations and ministerial guidelines of Japan.
 
The Closing will take place at 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on November 17, 2008, at the offices of Hunton & Williams LLP, 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166.
The Notes will be made available for checking and packaging at the offices of Hunton & Williams LLP, 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166 (unless another location shall be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
 
Please signify your acceptance by signing the enclosed response to us in the space provided and returning it to us.
 
Accepted:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Filed Pursuant to Rule 433 Registration No. 333-150449
 
Allocations:
 
Note: A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Citigroup Global Markets Inc. toll free at 877-858-5407, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. toll free at 800-503-4611 or Goldman, Sachs & Co. toll free at 866-471-2526.

Exhibit 4.1
REGISTERED
No.                
 
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN CERTIFICATED FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (THE "DEPOSITARY") TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC., a Virginia corporation (hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of $             on March 17, 2014, and to pay interest thereon from November 17, 2008 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on March 17 and September 17, in each year, commencing March 17, 2009, at the rate of 6.875% per annum until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be March 2 or September 2, (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest
not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee for the Notes, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Securities Register or by wire transfer at such place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the person entitled thereto. All payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of this Note will be made by the Company in immediately available funds.
provided
however
Additional provisions of this Note are contained on the reverse hereof, and such provisions shall have the same effect as though fully set forth in this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee for the Notes by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC. has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
[SEAL]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein described in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter called the "Securities") of the Company of the series hereinafter specified, which series is limited in aggregate principal amount to $1,250,000,000 (except as provided in the Indenture hereinafter mentioned), all such Securities issued and to be issued under an Indenture dated as of April 25, 2008 between the Company and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all other indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the rights and limitations of rights thereunder of the Holders of the Securities and of the rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee for each series of Securities and of the Company, and the terms upon which the Securities are and are to be authenticated and delivered. As provided in the Indenture, the Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest, if any, at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions, if any, may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds, if any, may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as in the Indenture provided or permitted. This Note is one of a series of the Securities designated therein as 6.875% Notes due 2014 (the "Notes").
Section 1010 of the Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes, except that the term "Holder," when used in Section 1010 of the Indenture, shall mean the beneficial owners of a Note or any person holding on behalf or for the account of the beneficial owner of a Note.
The Company may redeem the Notes prior to maturity in whole, but not in part, on not more than 60 days' notice and not less than 30 days' notice at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of such Notes plus any accrued interest and additional amounts to the date fixed for redemption if:
 
 
and the Company in its business judgment determines that such obligations cannot be avoided by the use of reasonable measures available to the Company.
If the Company exercises its option to redeem the Notes, the Company will deliver to the Trustee a certificate signed by an authorized officer stating that it is entitled to redeem the Notes and the written opinion of independent legal counsel if required.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire principal of all the Securities of any series upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein.
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default described in Section 501(4) or 501(5) of the Indenture) with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, then either the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of all series then Outstanding (or, if such default is not applicable to all series of the Securities, the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of all series to which it is applicable) (in each case voting as a single class) may declare the entire principal amount of the Securities of all series so affected due and payable in the manner and with effect provided in the Indenture. If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(4) or 501(5) occurs with respect to the Company, all of the unpaid principal amount and accrued interest then Outstanding shall become and be immediately due and payable in the manner with the effect provided in the Indenture without any declaration or other act by the Trustee or any Holder.
ipso facto
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities under the Indenture at any time by the Company with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series of Securities affected thereby (voting as a single class). The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of all series affected thereby at the time Outstanding (voting as a single class) to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences to the affected series. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the transfer hereof or in exchange or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein and in the Indenture prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Note is transferable on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company to be maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or at any other office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by the Holder hereof or his or her attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Notes are issuable only in registered form in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of a like tenor and of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Company, the Trustee for the Notes and any agent of the Company or such Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment as herein provided and for all other purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, such Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Certain of the Company's obligations under the Indenture with respect to Notes may be terminated if the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee money or Government Obligations sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all Notes, as provided in the Indenture.
This Note shall for all purposes be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Certain terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture have the meanings set forth therein.
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER OR
OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
(Name and address of Assignee, including zip code, must be printed or typewritten)
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
the within Note, and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably, constituting and appointing
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Attorney to transfer the said Note on the books of Philip Morris International Inc. with full power of substitution in the premises.
 


