FILE:PM/PM-8K-20090204125642.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 4, 2009, Philip Morris International Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and held a live audio webcast to discuss such results. In connection with this webcast, the Company is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission the following documents attached as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference to this Item 2.02: the earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto, the conference call transcript attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and the webcast slides attached as Exhibit 99.3 hereto.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: February 4, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
2008 Full-Year
 
2008 Fourth-Quarter
 
 
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK, February 4, 2009  Philip Morris International Inc. (NYSE / Euronext Paris: PM) today announced its 2008 full-year and fourth-quarter results and provided its forecast for 2009 full-year diluted earnings per share.
"Our operating performance in 2008 was exceptionally strong and our results exceeded our constant currency growth targets for both the full year and the fourth quarter. Our first year as an independent company was also marked by significant progress on numerous strategic fronts and specifically behind our efforts to improve our speed to market and enhance the vibrancy and equity of our strong brand portfolio," said Louis Camilleri, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
"The global economic crisis obviously results in uncertainty, particularly on the currency front, and at current exchange rates we face a steep hurdle. Nevertheless, we enter 2009 with solid momentum and confident in our ability to meet our constant currency income growth targets. Our commitment to judiciously invest in the growth of our business and deliver superior returns to our shareholders over the long term remains as steadfast as ever."
Conference Call
A conference call, hosted by Louis Camilleri, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Hermann Waldemer, Chief Financial Officer, with members of the investment community and news media will be webcast at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time on February 4, 2009.Access is available at www.pmintl.com.
Dividends and Share Repurchase Program
During the fourth quarter, PMI announced a regular quarterly dividend of $0.54. PMI increased its dividend by 17.4% in August 2008 to an annualized rate of $2.16 per share.
In the fourth quarter, PMI spent $888 million to repurchase 20.6 million shares of its common stock. Since May 2008, when PMI began its previously-announced $13 billion, two-year share repurchase program, the company has spent a total of $5.4 billion to repurchase 106.8 million shares.
Acquisitions
In 2008, PMI acquired all of the outstanding common shares of Rothmans Inc. of Canada for CAD $30.00 per share in cash, representing an aggregate transaction value of approximately CAD $2.0 billion. The Canadian business' results were incorporated into the renamed Latin America & Canada segment as of September 19, 2008. These results were not material to PMI's operating results for the fourth quarter 2008 or for the full-year 2008.
During the year, PMI also acquired the fine cut trademark for 254 million euros.
Interval
Certain PMI Subsidiaries Revise their Closing Date
Prior to 2008, certain of PMI's subsidiaries reported their results up to ten days before the end of December, rather than on December 31. During 2008, these subsidiaries moved to a December 31 closing date. Accordingly, the first and fourth quarter results of previous periods have been revised to reflect this change. The unfavorable impact of this change on 2008 diluted earnings per share in the first quarter is essentially offset by a favorable impact in the fourth quarter. The effect of this change for the year ended December 31, 2008 was not material to PMI's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Schedules 9-12 for more information.
PMI Enters into Agreement with Swedish Match AB
As separately announced on February 3, 2009, PMI has entered into an agreement with Swedish Match AB (SWMA) to establish an exclusive 50:50 joint venture to commercialize Swedish style snus and other smoke-free tobacco products worldwide, outside of Scandinavia and the USA. PMI and SWMA will license exclusively to the joint venture an agreed list of trademarks and intellectual property.
PMI has further licensed to SWMA certain PMI trademarks in Sweden and Norway, including , PMI's first product in the Swedish snus category launched in June 2008.
1847 by Philip Morris
Acquisition of
Petteres
PMI has reached an agreement to acquire the rights to the fine cut tobacco trademark worldwide and other cigarette trademarks sold primarily in Norway and Sweden.
Petteres
In 2008, had a 58% share of the Norwegian roll-your-own segment and a 7% share of the cigarette category. The brand recorded net revenues, excluding excise taxes, of approximately NOK 370 million (USD 54 million), and operating companies income of approximately NOK 260 million (USD 38 million), in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008.
Petteres
The transaction is subject to approval by the European Commission and certain individual country regulatory agencies and is expected to be completed during the first quarter of 2009. The transaction is projected to be modestly accretive to net earnings in 2009.
2009 Full-Year Forecast
PMI forecasts 2009 full-year diluted earnings per share to a range of $2.85 to $3.00, at current exchange rates, versus $3.32 in 2008. Excluding an adverse currency impact of $0.80 per share, 2009 guidance is projected to increase by 10%-14%. This guidance excludes the impact of any potential future acquisition.
The factors described in the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements section of this release represent continuing risks to this projection.
Management reviews operating companies income, which is defined as operating income before corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles, to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources. Management believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze business performance and trends. For a reconciliation of operating companies income to operating income, see the Condensed Statements of Earnings contained in this release. References to international tobacco market shares are PMI estimates based on a number of sources.
 
 
Reported net revenues, excluding excise taxes, of $25.7 billion for the full-year 2008 were up 12.7%, driven by growth in all business segments. Net revenues increased by 6.6% for the full-year, excluding favorable currency of $1.4 billion. Excluding currency and acquisitions, net revenues increased by 5.6%.
In the fourth quarter, reported net revenues, excluding excise taxes, of $6.1 billion, were up 3.6%. Net revenues increased by 8.5% for the quarter, excluding unfavorable currency of $288 million. Excluding currency and acquisitions, net revenues increased by 5.6%.
 
Reported operating companies income increased 16.7% to $10.4 billion for the full-year 2008, due primarily to higher pricing of $1.2 billion, across all business segments, improved volume/mix and favorable currency of $481 million. Adjusted for the items shown in the table below, operating companies income grew 16.5%. Excluding currency, operating companies income was up 11.3%. Excluding currency and acquisitions, operating companies income increased by 9.9%.
Fourth-quarter 2008 reported operating companies income was essentially flat at $2.3 billion, reflecting higher pricing across all business segments and the favorable impact of the Canadian acquisition, offset by unfavorable currency of $237 million and by increased expenditures in marketing, trade and selling activities, principally in Asia of approximately $100 million. Adjusted for the items shown in the table below, operating companies income declined 1.7%. Excluding currency, operating companies income was up 10.4%. Excluding currency and acquisitions, operating companies income increased by 7.4%.
 
 
**Margins are calculated as adjusted operating companies income, divided by net revenues, excluding excise taxes.
 
2008 Full-Year Results
PMI cigarette shipment volume of 869.8 billion units was up 2.5% for the full-year 2008. On an organic basis, excluding acquisitions, PMI's cigarette shipment volume was up 1.0%, benefiting from strong performances in EEMA, Asia and Latin America & Canada, partially offset by the EU. The performance in the EU was adversely affected by a decline in the total market, the build-up of trade inventories in the Czech Republic in the fourth quarter of 2007 in anticipation of the January 2008 excise tax increase, and the impact of tax-driven pricing in Poland. Absent the distortions in the Czech Republic and Poland, PMI cigarette shipment volume in the EU declined by 2.9%.
cigarette shipment volume of 310.7 billion units was up 0.2%, with a combined growth in EEMA, Asia and Latin America & Canada of 4.3%, partially offset by the EU, down 6.0%, primarily reflecting cigarette consumption declines.
Marlboro
Total cigarette shipments of of 92.4 billion units were down 4.6%, mainly due to a decline in EEMA, partially offset by growth in the EU. Led by double-digit growth in EEMA and an increase in the EU, total cigarette shipments of grew 13.7%. Total cigarette shipments of recorded strong growth, up 20.0%, led by gains in EEMA and Asia. grew 8.2%, driven by gains across all business segments.
L&M
Chesterfield
Parliament
Virginia Slims
Shipment volume of other tobacco products (in cigarette equivalent units) grew 30.9%, driven by strong growth in France, Germany and Poland. Excluding acquisitions, shipment volume of other tobacco products was up 18.1%.
Total shipment volume for cigarettes and other tobacco products was up 2.8%, or up 1.2% excluding acquisitions.
PMI's full-year market share performance improved versus 2007 in a number of markets, including Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech Republic, the Dominican Republic, Egypt, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Korea, Mexico, the Netherlands, Romania, Russia, Turkey, Ukraine and the United Kingdom.
2008 Fourth-Quarter Results
PMI cigarette shipment volume of 217.2 billion units was up 2.0%, driven by EEMA, Asia and Latin America & Canada, partially offset by a decline in the EU due to the factors mentioned above for the full-year. Absent the distortions in the Czech Republic and Poland, PMI cigarette shipment volume in the EU declined 3.6%. On an organic basis, excluding acquisitions, PMI's cigarette shipment volume was up 0.6%, benefiting from particularly strong performances in Indonesia, Mexico, the Philippines, Russia and Turkey, partially offset by EU markets, mainly the Czech Republic and Poland.
Total cigarette shipments of of 78.5 billion units were up 2.0%, with combined growth in EEMA, Asia and Latin America & Canada of 6.4%, partially offset by a 5.2% decline in the EU.
Marlboro
Total cigarette shipments of of 22.0 billion units were down 4.0%, mainly due to a decline in EEMA. Total cigarette shipments of grew 4.8% versus the prior-year quarter, driven by continued growth in the EU and EEMA. Total cigarette shipments of continued to record strong growth, up 16.4%, led by gains in EEMA and Asia. grew 2.4%, driven by gains in the EU and EEMA.
L&M
Chesterfield
Parliament
Virginia Slims
Shipment volume of other tobacco products (in cigarette equivalent units) grew 30.0%, driven by strong growth in Belgium, France and Poland. Excluding acquisitions, shipment volume of other tobacco products was up 4.4%.
Total shipment volume for cigarettes and other tobacco products was up 2.4%, or up 0.6% excluding acquisitions.
PMI's market share performance improved versus the same period in 2007 in a number of markets, including Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, the Czech Republic, the Dominican Republic, Egypt, Germany, Hungary, Korea, Mexico, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Turkey, Ukraine and the United Kingdom.
2008 Full-Year Results
In the EU, net revenues, excluding excise taxes, increased by 9.7% to reach $9.7 billion, due to favorable currency of $899 million. Excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions, net revenues decreased 0.8%, mainly due to: an unfavorable volume/mix of $454 million, especially in the Czech Republic driven by the impact of unfavorable trade inventory movements in anticipation of the January 2008 excise tax increase; the total market decline, primarily in Poland due to tax-driven price increases; and lower share in some markets, principally France and Poland. These factors were partially offset by higher pricing in most markets of $382 million, net of a total tax absorption cost of
$75 million in the Czech Republic and Poland where PMI absorbed taxes as a result of shorter inventory durations of old tax products compared to its competitors.
Operating companies income grew by 12.9% to $4.7 billion, mainly due to favorable currency of $432 million and higher pricing. Excluding currency, operating companies income increased in all main markets with the exception of the Czech Republic, France and Poland for the reasons mentioned above. Operating companies income grew 10.9% in 2008 when adjusted for the impact of the items shown in the table below. Excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions, adjusted operating companies income increased by 0.5%.
The total cigarette market in the EU declined by 4.8%. Adjusted for the Czech Republic inventory distortion and excluding the tax-driven pricing impact in Poland, the total cigarette market in the EU was down 1.8%.
PMI's cigarette shipment volume in the EU declined by 5.5%, reflecting a lower total market. Absent the distortions in the Czech Republic and the total market decline in Poland, PMI cigarette shipment volume in the EU declined 2.9%. PMI's share was down 0.2 share points at 39.2%. 's share in the EU was down 0.1 share point for the year, with declines in France, Germany, Italy and Spain partially offset by gains in Greece and Hungary.
Marlboro
2008 Fourth-Quarter Results
Net revenues, excluding excise taxes, declined by 6.0% to $2.1 billion, due to unfavorable currency of $83 million. Excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions, net revenues decreased 2.9%, principally due to an unfavorable volume/mix of $184 million, due to total market declines and the inventory distortion in the Czech Republic mentioned above, partially offset by higher pricing across almost all markets of $119 million.
Operating companies income declined by 9.4% to $959 million, mainly due to unfavorable volume/mix, and unfavorable currency of $91 million, partially offset by higher pricing. Operating companies income declined 12.4% for the fourth quarter when adjusted for the impact of the items shown in the table below. Excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions, adjusted operating companies income decreased by 5.0%.
The total cigarette market in the EU declined by 8.7%, impacted by the unfavorable factors mentioned above for the full year. Adjusted for these factors, the total cigarette market in the EU was down 3.1%.
PMI's cigarette shipment volume in the EU declined by 8.6%, reflecting a lower total market. PMI's share was essentially flat at 39.3%. However, 's share in the EU was up 0.3 share points versus the third quarter 2008.
Marlboro
 
*Margins are calculated as adjusted operating companies income, divided by net revenues, excluding excise taxes.
EU Key Market Commentaries
In France, the total cigarette market was down 2.5% in 2008, reflecting the impact of the August 2007, 0.30 euros per pack price increase as well as the expansion of public smoking restrictions in January 2008. In the fourth quarter, the total cigarette market was down only 0.3%, reflecting the annualization of the price increase impact. PMI's shipments were down 6.1% in 2008 and, while market share in the fourth quarter was flat against the third quarter 2008, total share for the year decreased 1.7 share points to 40.8%. share in 2008 was down 2.9 share points to 27.3%, reflecting the impact of crossing the 5.00 euros per pack threshold, and down 0.2 share points in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter of 2008.
Marlboro
In Germany, the total cigarette market was down 2.7% in 2008, primarily reflecting the impact of public smoking restrictions that came into force during the year. While PMI's cigarette shipments were down 1.7%, market share was up 0.4 share points to 36.9%, reflecting the continued strong momentum of , the fastest growing major cigarette brand in Germany, up 1.9 share points versus 2007. PMI's market share in the fourth quarter of 2008 was up 0.8 share points versus the prior-year quarter.
L&M
In Italy, the total market was down 0.9% in 2008, reflecting the impact of 2008 price increases. PMI's shipments declined 2.9%, reflecting distributor inventory adjustments, and market share declined 0.2 share points to 54.4%. 's share was down 0.3 share points.
Marlboro
In Poland, the total cigarette market was down 9.7% in 2008, reflecting the impact of the 2007 and 2008 price increases driven by EU tax harmonization. PMI's shipments declined 12.8% and market share declined 1.3 share points to 37.6%, reflecting the loss incurred by PMI's low priced brands. Following the closure of price gaps with competitive brands that had widened as a result of the tax-driven price increases during the third quarter of 2008, PMI's market share is showing early
signs of recovery, as evidenced by total share and share in December 2008, up 0.7 and 0.2 share points respectively, versus the same period in 2007.
Marlboro
In Spain, the total market was up 1.2% in 2008. PMI's shipments increased 0.4% and PMI's market share was essentially flat at 31.9%, benefiting from the October 2008 launch of which captured a 0.7% share in the fourth quarter.
Marlboro Pocket Pack
2008 Full-Year Results
In EEMA, net revenues, excluding excise taxes, increased by 18.2% to reach $7.5 billion, including favorable currency of $296 million. Excluding currency, net revenues grew 13.6% due to higher pricing and favorable volume/mix, principally in Russia, Turkey and Ukraine.
Operating companies income surged 28.3%, including favorable currency of $21 million, or 27.7% when adjusted for the impact of the items shown in the table below. Excluding the impact of currency, adjusted operating companies income was up a strong 26.9%, driven by continued gains across the region and especially in Eastern Europe and Turkey. The income gain reflects a combination of strong volume growth, particularly in Russia and Ukraine, favorable product mix due to up-trading in Eastern Europe and Turkey and improved pricing across the region.
PMI's cigarette shipment volume increased 4.4%, driven by gains in Algeria, Egypt, Russia, Turkey and Ukraine, as well as favorable trade inventory movements in Bulgaria.
2008 Fourth-Quarter Results
Net revenues, excluding excise taxes, increased by 8.2% to reach $1.8 billion, including unfavorable currency of $109 million. Excluding currency, net revenues grew 14.7% due to the same factors mentioned above for the full year.
Operating companies income grew 8.3%, including unfavorable currency of $104 million. Excluding the impact of currency, adjusted operating companies income was up a strong 24.8% driven by strong growth in Russia, Turkey and Ukraine.
In the fourth quarter, PMI's cigarette shipment volume increased 4.8%, driven by Algeria, Egypt, Russia, Turkey and Ukraine, as well as favorable trade inventory movements in Bulgaria.
 
*Margins are calculated as adjusted operating companies income, divided by net revenues, excluding excise taxes.
EEMA Key Market Commentaries
In Russia, PMI's shipment volume was up 7.9% in 2008, benefiting from up-trading to our higher-priced brands. PMI's market share was up 0.2 share points, with the premium brands and and the medium-priced brand all registering share gains. PMI's premium brand portfolio increased market share by 0.5 share points for the full year 2008. In the fourth quarter, PMI's shipment volume was up 4.7% and market share was up 0.5 share points versus the prior year and up 0.2 share points versus the third quarter 2008.
Marlboro
Parliament,
Chesterfield,
In Turkey, PMI's shipment volume was up 4.9% in 2008, fueled by improved product mix, with double-digit growth of the premium brand portfolio, comprised of , and , launched in the first quarter of 2008 partially offset by the decline of lower-margin brands. Total market share in 2008 of 40.5% was up 0.2 share points. PMI's share has recovered strongly in 2008 and gained 1.5 share points to reach 41.4% in the fourth quarter.
Parliament
Marlboro
Virginia Slims
,
In Ukraine, PMI's shipment volume was up 6.6% in 2008 and market share rose 1.3 share points versus 2007 to 35.2%, reflecting share gains by our higher-margin brands , and . In the fourth quarter, PMI's shipment volume was up 3.5%.
Marlboro
Parliament
Chesterfield
2008 Full-Year Results
In Asia, net revenues, excluding excise taxes, increased by 9.5% to reach $6.2 billion, including favorable currency of $140 million. Excluding currency and acquisitions, net revenues grew 6.2%.
Operating companies income grew 14.1% to $2.1 billion, due primarily to strong performances in Australia, Indonesia and Korea. Operating companies income grew 13.1% in 2008 when adjusted
for the impact of the items shown in the table below. Excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions, adjusted operating companies income grew 11.1%, primarily due to higher pricing, mainly in Australia, Indonesia and Thailand, and favorable volume/mix, mainly in Indonesia and Korea.
PMI's cigarette shipment volume increased 5.8%, due to gains in Indonesia, Korea, acquisition volume in Pakistan, and the Philippines, partially offset by Japan.
2008 Fourth-Quarter Results
In the fourth quarter, net revenues, excluding excise taxes, increased by 4.5% to reach $1.5 billion, including unfavorable currency of $63 million. Excluding currency, net revenues grew 9.0%.
In the fourth quarter, operating companies income was up 0.5%, due primarily to higher pricing and favorable volume mix, partially offset by increased expenditures in marketing, trade and selling activities, principally in Japan and Indonesia. Operating companies income was down 0.9% when adjusted for the impact of the items shown in the table below. Excluding the impact of currency, adjusted operating companies income grew 4.4%. The decrease in adjusted operating companies income margin reflects additional expenditures in marketing, trade and selling activities.
In the fourth quarter, PMI's cigarette shipment volume increased 5.4%, reflecting gains in Indonesia, Korea and the Philippines, partially offset by Japan.
 
*Margins are calculated as adjusted operating companies income, divided by net revenues, excluding excise taxes.
Asia Key Market Commentaries
In Indonesia, PMI's shipment volume rose 9.7% in 2008, reflecting overall industry growth and portfolio share gains, notably by , up 0.4 share points to 4.8%, and , up 0.4 share points to 10.0%. The brand family continued to perform strongly, helped by the successful launch of the first super slims kretek in the Indonesian market. PMI's shipment volume
Marlboro
A Mild
A Mild
A Volution,
rose 5.6% in the fourth quarter versus the prior-year period and market share remained stable at 29.6%.
In Japan, the total cigarette market declined 4.4% in 2008. However, adjusting for the impact of the completed implementation of vending machine age verification and resultant trade inventory movements, the total market is estimated to have declined 3.8%. PMI's shipments were down 5.0%, primarily reflecting the lower total market. Although PMI's market share in 2008 declined 0.4 share points to 23.9%, share in the fourth quarter of 2008 was stable compared to the previous quarter and versus prior year. share for 2008 was up 0.1 share point at 10.1% and up 0.6 share points to 10.4% in the fourth quarter of 2008 versus the prior year, driven by the August launch of , an innovative product in the growing menthol segment, which captured 1.0% share of market in the fourth quarter, and the November launch of , which achieved a 0.3% share of market in the fourth quarter. Share of in 2008 was 6.6%, down 0.2 share points versus 2007.
Marlboro's
Marlboro Black Menthol
Marlboro Filter Plus One
Lark
In Korea, the total market was up 3.6% in 2008 and PMI's shipment volume increased 24.9%, driven by market share increases. Following a record market share of 12.3% in the fourth quarter, up 2.0 share points compared to the prior year, PMI's share in 2008 reached 11.8%, up 2.0 share points, due mainly to the continued strong performance of up 1.4 share points, , up 0.6 share points, and , up 0.2 share points.
Parliament,
Marlboro
Virginia Slims
2008 Full-Year Results
In Latin America & Canada, net revenues, excluding excise taxes, increased by 17.5% to reach $2.3 billion, including favorable currency of $47 million, due largely to higher pricing in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Mexico and higher volume in Argentina and Mexico. Excluding currency and acquisitions, net revenues, excluding excise taxes, grew 7.2%, due mainly to higher pricing and positive volume/mix.
Operating companies income grew 1.2% to $520 million, due primarily to the favorable impact of acquisitions in Canada and Mexico. Operating companies income grew 21.6% when adjusted for the impact of the items shown in the table below. Excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions, adjusted operating companies income increased 3.6%.
Cigarette shipment volume increased by 11.3%, primarily reflecting gains in Argentina and Mexico and the inclusion of acquisition volume in Canada and Mexico. Excluding acquisitions, shipments increased 2.7%.
2008 Fourth-Quarter Results
Net revenues, excluding excise taxes, increased by 26.2% to reach $727 million, due largely to the Canadian acquisition, partially offset by unfavorable currency of $33 million. Excluding these items, net revenues grew 4.7%, due mainly to higher pricing in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico.
Operating companies income increased 25.3%, due primarily to the favorable impact of the Canadian acquisition. Excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions, adjusted operating companies income grew 4.7%.
Cigarette shipment volume increased by 13.3%, reflecting the same factors as for the total year. Excluding acquisitions, shipments increased 1.4%.
 
 
**Margins are calculated as adjusted operating companies income, divided by net revenues, excluding excise taxes.
Latin America & Canada Key Market Commentaries
In Argentina, the total cigarette market grew 5.7% in 2008. PMI's cigarette shipment volume increased 8.8% and share increased 2.0 share points to 71.0%, driven by , up 1.3 share points and the brand, up 1.9 share points. In the fourth quarter, PMI cigarette shipment volume increased 7.4% and market share increased 1.8 share points to 71.6%.
Marlboro
Philip Morris
In Canada, the total cigarette market declined 2.3% in 2008. PMI recorded cigarette shipment volume of 2.8 billion units following the acquisition. Pro forma share for the full year 2008 increased 1.2 share points to 33.8% and for the fourth quarter increased 1.0 share point to 34.4%.
In Mexico, the total cigarette market was down 1.3% in 2008, reflecting the impact of price increases in October 2007 and related trade inventory movements, and tax-driven price increases in January and December 2008. However, PMI's cigarette shipment volume rose by 22.6% and share increased 3.4 share points to 67.7%, led by , up 0.6 share points and , up 1.3 share points. The share of the market leader, was 48.7%, up 0.9 share points.
Benson & Hedges
Delicados
Marlboro,
Philip Morris International Inc. Profile
Philip Morris International Inc. (PMI) is the leading international tobacco company, with seven of the world's top 15 brands, including , the number one cigarette brand worldwide. PMI has more than 75,000 employees and its products are sold in approximately 160 countries. In 2007, the company held an estimated 15.6% share of the total international cigarette market outside of the U.S. For more information, see www.pmintl.com.
Marlboro
Trademarks and service marks mentioned in this release are the registered property of, or licensed by, the subsidiaries of Philip Morris International Inc.
A complete copy of PMI's audited 2008 financial statements will be available through PMI's website after they are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about February 9, 2009. Those without internet access who would like to receive a copy of the 2008 audited financial statements for PMI, may call our Shareholder Publications Center toll-free on +1-866-713-8075 to request a copy.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements.
Philip Morris International Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries (PMI) are subject to intense price competition; changes in consumer preferences and demand for their products; fluctuations in levels of customer inventories; increases in raw material costs; the effects of foreign economies and local economic and market conditions; unfavorable currency movements and changes to income tax laws. Their results are dependent upon their continued ability to promote brand equity successfully; to anticipate and respond to new consumer trends; to develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively; and to improve productivity.
PMI is also subject to legislation and governmental regulation, including actual and potential excise tax increases; discriminatory excise tax structures; increasing marketing and regulatory restrictions; the effects of price increases related to excise tax increases on consumption rates and consumer preferences within price segments; health concerns relating to the use of tobacco products and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; privately imposed smoking restrictions; and governmental investigations.
PMI is subject to litigation, including risks associated with adverse jury and judicial determinations, and courts reaching conclusions at variance with the company's understanding of
applicable law. It is possible that PMI's consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation.
PMI is further subject to other risks detailed from time to time in its publicly filed documents, including the Form 10 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008. PMI cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that it may make.
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
 
 
Schedule 3
 
 
Schedule 4
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 5
 
 
Schedule 6
 
 
Schedule 7
 
 
Schedule 8
 
 
 
Schedule 9
 
 
Schedule 10
 
 
Schedule 11
 
 
 
 
Schedule 12
 
 
 
Schedule 13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 15
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
NICK ROLLI
Welcome. Thank you for joining us. Earlier today we issued a news release containing detailed information on our 2008 fourth quarter and full year results. You may access the release on our web site at www.pmintl.com.
(1)    
As we take you through our call today, we will be talking about results in the fourth quarter or the full year 2008 and comparing them with the same periods in 2007 unless specified otherwise. References to volumes are for PMI shipments. Net revenue data exclude excise taxes.
(2)    
You will find data tables showing how we made adjustments to revenues and OCI for currency and acquisitions on the last two slides of today's presentation, which will be posted on our web site.
Prior to 2008, certain of PMI's subsidiaries reported their results up to ten days before the end of December rather than on December 31. During 2008, these subsidiaries moved to a December 31 closing date. As a result, the first and fourth quarter results of previous periods have been revised to reflect this change. We have provided the revised quarterly information for 2007 and 2008 on Schedules 9 through 12 of today's release. The effect of this change for the year was not material to PMI's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results, and I direct your attention to the Safe Harbor Statement in today's presentation and news release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
(3)    
It's now my pleasure to introduce Louis Camilleri, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Hermann Waldemer, Chief Financial Officer, who will join Louis for the question and answer period.
Louis,
LOUIS CAMILLERI
Thank you Nick. Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining our review of our first full-year results as an independent company, as well as our expectations and guidance for 2009. In March, we shared with you our mid to long-term volume and constant currency targets for net revenues,
(4)    
 
1
operating income and EPS. In 2008, we achieved or surpassed all of them. We plan to do the same in 2009, but as I shall discuss later, our results this year will be adversely impacted by a significant currency hit should current rates prevail throughout the year.
In the fourth quarter, our cigarette volume growth momentum continued with increases of 2.0%, and 0.6% excluding acquisitions. As a result, for the full year, our cigarette volume was up 21.1 billion units to 869.8 billion, representing a growth rate of 2.5% and 1.0% excluding acquisitions. This marks a significant improvement over our performance in recent years and was achieved despite above-trend market declines in the EU Region and Japan.
(5)    
Emerging markets were the principal growth driver of our solid volume performance with particularly strong results in Algeria, Argentina, Bulgaria, Egypt, Indonesia, Korea, Mexico, Russia, Turkey and Ukraine. In these markets, we benefited from overall industry volume growth and consumer uptrading to our premium and mid-price brands. This dynamic continued through the end of the fourth quarter, illustrated by the fact that, during the quarter, our revenue growth excluding currency in key markets such as Argentina, Indonesia, Mexico, Russia, Turkey and Ukraine remained robust and essentially in line with, and in several cases exceeded, the annual trend.
As of yet, we have not witnessed any evidence of a shift in consumer behavior in our principal emerging markets. While the rate of uptrading appears to have slowed in very recent weeks in some markets, and most noticeably in Russia, no sign of consumer down-trading has yet been detected. This is obviously good news. We must, however, recognize that the year has barely started and the global economic crisis is still unfolding and, accordingly, there is no certainty that these trends will be sustained. Having said that, we believe that any shift, were it to happen, would be mitigated by both the fact that the premium segment is still of moderate size in numerous emerging markets and that absolute and relative retail prices have not reached prohibitive levels.
Net revenues in the fourth quarter grew by 3.6% on a reported basis and by 5.6% excluding currency and acquisitions. For the full year, net revenues were up $2.9 billion to $25.7 billion, representing a growth rate of 12.7% on a reported basis and 5.6% excluding currency and acquisitions. Net revenue growth has been driven by our good volume performance, significant increases in prices across all our regions and a favorable product mix. Of particular note is that organic revenue growth in the fourth quarter was equal to that of the full year.
(6)    
Operating Companies Income, or OCI, in the fourth quarter suffered a substantial currency hit and was essentially even with the corresponding prior year period. However, excluding acquisitions and currency, OCI was up 7.4%, or $171 million, in spite of increased expenditures of $100 million in brand-building in several key markets, including Indonesia and Japan.
(7)    
 
2
For the full year, OCI reached $10.4 billion, an increase of $1.5 billion, or 16.7%, and 9.9% excluding currency and acquisitions, surpassing our constant currency target for operating income growth of 6 to 8%.
Income growth was attributable to stronger volume and a significantly better mix than in previous years, a $1.2 billion pricing contribution and productivity initiatives. In addition, OCI was lifted by favorable currency of $481 million for the full year.
(8)    
Adjusted EPS declined by 1 cent or 1.4% in the fourth quarter, but were up a strong 12.5% excluding the adverse currency impact incurred during the quarter.
(9)    
For the full year 2008, adjusted EPS of $3.32 were up 52 cents, or 18.6%, and excluding currency, rose by 13.2%.
Discretionary or free cash flow, defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, reached $6.8 billion in 2008, an increase of $2.4 billion or 52.7% compared to 2007, despite higher capital expenditures related in particular to the establishment of new factories in Greece and Indonesia. This very strong cash flow performance was attributable to our strong net income growth, the optimization of our supply chain and a lower use of cash to fund working capital, reflecting a partial resolution of forestalling issues. We expect that our cash flow in 2009 will benefit from our continued focus on all the elements of our working capital and thus should exceed our net income performance.
(10)    
Our balance sheet remains solid. Our year-end net debt to EBITDA ratio stood at 0.94 to 1. In our debut year, we successfully accessed the capital markets and issued $10.1 billion of bonds, at various well-laddered maturities and currencies, for an attractive aggregate interest cost of 5.8%. Our continued and uninterrupted ability to tap the commercial paper market at particularly favorable rates underscores our recognized credit worthiness.
(11)    
Our resolve to reward shareholders has remained steadfast despite the financial market turbulence. We raised our dividend by 17.4% in August to an annualized rate of $2.16 per share, in line with our target payout ratio of 65%. Our share repurchases totaled $5.4 billion, ahead of our timetable for our two year $13 billion program ending April 2010.
(12)    
One of the key benefits that we expected from the spin-off of PMI was faster decision-making and speed to market, the fostering of a greater entrepreneurial spirit, more effective execution and a focus on innovation.
(13)    
's performance is testament to our progress in these areas. Indeed achieved a 0.2% shipment volume growth in 2008 with gains of 2.8% in
Marlboro
Marlboro
 
3
EEMA, 6.4% in Asia and 4.1% in Latin America & Canada, more than offsetting a decline in the EU Region of 6.0%. 's improving momentum is underscored by its volume growth of 2.0% in the fourth quarter and we are confident that, in spite of the current difficult economic climate, we will further strengthen and grow going forward.
Marlboro
Marlboro
's brand architecture, supported by three key pillars which we have described to you previously, is in full construction mode and early signs in each affected market are exceedingly promising.
(14)    
Marlboro
Let me provide you with a few examples of initiatives that are in place in numerous markets and that will gradually be rolled out geographically.
or is now available in 20 markets. It has garnered significant consumer interest and enhanced 's vitality. It has been particularly successful in Romania, where it has captured a 2.5% national share and a 4.0% share in Bucharest in December. In Moscow it now has a 1.2% share, in Almaty, Kazakhstan, a 1.5% share and a 0.6% share in Kiev. In November it was launched in Japan and has already captured a 0.3% share.
Marlboro Filter Plus
Flavor Plus
Marlboro
, which is also named or , is now available in 11 markets. In December, it enjoyed a national share of 0.6% in Spain and 0.5% in Italy, with stronger shares in key urban areas and an attractive demographic profile.
Marlboro Intense
Compact
Pocket Pack
Several launches of the new Gold pillar have been executed to date. , 's first ever slims offering, is now available in Hungary, Poland, Russia and Ukraine and it has already a 0.4% share in Warsaw.
Gold Edge
Marlboro
The new Gold offer is currently being expanded nationally in Austria, after a very promising test market in Vienna which witnessed a solid lift in market share. It is also being tested in both France and Italy in four cities with encouraging results. The test market in France has been supplemented with an additional offering called , again recording positive early signs.
Marlboro
Marlboro Gold Advance
The third pillar, which revolves around the concept of freshness, is also under construction in numerous Asian and Latin American markets. Initiatives have been launched to date in 19 markets with solid results. These have propelled a 32% increase in Menthol and Fresh volumes in Latin America. The most successful launch has been in Japan, where holds a 1.0% share.
Marlboro
Marlboro Black Menthol
Numerous exciting plans are in place to continue to build upon 's architecture in 2009 and thereafter.
Marlboro
 
4
As we have often stated, our brand portfolio extends well beyond and each brand has a key role to play as evidenced by their strong performance in 2008.
(15)    
Marlboro
Indeed, and performed very strongly in 2008 with volume growth of 20.0% and 8.2% respectively, driven by their unique product characteristics, premium price position, innovation and geographical expansion.
Parliament
Virginia Slims
In the mid-price category, 's 13.7% volume increase in 2008 more than offset 's decline, which slowed in the fourth quarter as the new "Essence" performed better in Romania and Ukraine and continued to be the fastest growing brand in Germany, with a gain of 1.9 share points for the year.
(16)    
Chesterfield
L&M
L&M
L&M
Finally, in the low-price category, our key brands, , and , collectively grew by 3.8% in 2008. Together with strong local brands, such as in Italy and in Mexico, they provide a strong safety net in the event that consumers were to down-trade from mid to low-price brands during the economic recession.
(17)    
Bond Street
Next
Red & White
Diana
Delicados
On the acquisition and business development front, 2008 was another exciting year. In October, we completed the acquisition of Rothmans Inc. in Canada. I am pleased to report that the integration is progressing rapidly and smoothly and we are delighted with this new member of the PMI family.
(18)    
We enhanced our presence in the growing fine cut segment with the acquisition in June of , the leading fine cut brand in France, and we are pleased to announce today the acquisition of the brand, the leading fine cut brand in Norway with a 58% category share.
Interval
Petteres
Yesterday, we announced our agreement with Swedish Match to establish an exclusive smokeless tobacco products joint venture which will cover all markets outside of Scandinavia and the USA. We believe that such products represent a reduced risk for adult smokers and are very excited about their potential over the longer term in a wide variety of geographies.
As discussed previously, we continue to pursue a number of business development initiatives and I remain hopeful that some of these will materialize as the coming year unfolds.
All in all, as I look in the rearview mirror, we had a strong year by any measure and we enter 2009 with a re-energized organization, solid momentum and exciting plans.
(19)    
Let me now turn to our prospects for the coming year.
 
5
Regretfully, currency will cast a dark shadow on our financial results should exchange rates remain at current levels.
Since the end of the third quarter, we have witnessed an appreciation of the US Dollar against the Euro and a steep depreciation in the value of many emerging market currencies, in particular the Russian Ruble, the Turkish Lira, the Indonesian Rupiah, the Mexican Peso and the Ukrainian Hrivna. We also witnessed huge volatility in exchange rates. For example, the Dollar/Euro exchange rate traded in a range of 1.23 to 1.47 in the fourth quarter alone making currency forecasting quite hazardous.
While we believe that economic fundamentals will pressure the US Dollar over time, we establish our EPS guidance for the year based on current exchange rates. As a result, in spite of the strength of our underlying business, our current EPS guidance, including an adverse currency impact of 80 cents for the full year 2009, is in a range of $2.85 to $3.00, compared to our EPS of $3.32 in 2008.
Let me illustrate the extent to which currency movements within the last month or so have impacted this guidance. At the spot rates prevailing as recently as mid December, 2008, our EPS guidance would have been 40 cents higher.
Excluding the impact of currency, we expect EPS growth to fall within a range of 10 to 14% in 2009 and we are confident that we will be able to achieve our volume and currency neutral targets again this year, namely volume growth of 1 to 2%, net revenue growth of 4 to 6% and operating income growth of 6 to 8%.
(20)    
Our confidence is based on our solid momentum and the strengths of our fundamentals. We own seven of the top fifteen international cigarette brands. Our superior brand portfolio is led by , which remains the only truly global cigarette brand and has demonstrated its growth potential following our renewed focus on innovation and the development of a new brand architecture.
(21)    
Marlboro
We believe we have the greatest global reach and the best geographic balance in the industry between mature and emerging markets. The spin-off has enhanced our speed to market and our flexibility. Our ambitious productivity program is generating substantial cost savings and we believe that the excise tax and regulatory environment is manageable with no immediate and potentially disruptive threats on the horizon.
Furthermore, our business generates substantial cash flows, which, along with our very solid balance sheet, provide us with excellent liquidity. We remain committed to return significant amounts of cash to our shareholders during the year through dividends and share repurchases. We anticipate that our share repurchases in 2009 will essentially be in line with the dollar level we expended in 2008.
 
6
We are very focused on the fundamentals of our business and intent on delivering industry leading growth. Therefore, while we will do everything we can to mitigate the impact of unfavorable currency, we will not implement any measures that could jeopardize our strong underlying business momentum and sacrifice our long term growth for a short term benefit.
Hermann and I will now be happy to take your questions.
 
Nick Rolli
That concludes our conference call. Please note that PMI will be presenting at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York Conference on Tuesday, February 17, at 3 pm ET. The presentation will be web cast.
Thank you and have a good day.
 
7



