FILE:PM/PM-8K-20100217170324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 11, 2010, the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Philip Morris International Inc. (the "Company") approved the grant of shares of restricted or deferred stock under the Philip Morris International Inc. 2008 Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated February 11, 2010 (the "2008 Performance Incentive Plan") to the following executive officers in the amounts indicated below:
(e)
Restricted or Deferred Stock.
 
All shares vest on February 14, 2013. Forms of the restricted and deferred stock agreements are attached as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference herein.
The maximum award amounts for the restricted and deferred stock awards were determined based on a performance incentive pool equal to 0.75% of the 2009 adjusted net earnings of the Company. Adjusted net earnings of the Company is defined as net earnings before extraordinary items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Committee. In addition, individual equity award amounts were limited to a maximum of $15.9 million for Mr. Camilleri and $7.9 million for each of the other named executives, subject to a maximum award of one million shares as provided in the 2008 Performance Incentive Plan.
On February 11, 2010, the Committee approved annual incentive awards for 2009, payable in cash, to the following executive officers, in the amounts indicated below:
Annual Incentive Awards.
 
 
The maximum award amounts for the 2009 annual incentive awards were determined based on a performance incentive pool equal to 0.6% of the 2009 adjusted net earnings of the Company. Adjusted net earnings of the Company is defined as net earnings before extraordinary items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Committee. In addition, individual award amounts are limited to the shareholder-approved maximum defined in the 2008 Performance Incentive Plan of $12.0 million for Mr. Camilleri, as well as individual maximums of $6.3 million for each of the other named executives.
. On February 11, 2010, the Committee approved the following base salaries for the following executive officers in the amounts indicated below:
Base Salaries
 
 
Future Programs
On February 11, 2010, the Committee approved the formula for determining the maximum award amounts for 2011 restricted and deferred stock awards. The formula reflects the Company's intention to qualify, to the extent possible, stock awards made to officers as tax deductible, subject to the deductibility limitations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Under the formula, the maximum restricted stock award grant value amounts for the 2011 restricted and deferred stock awards are determined based on a performance incentive pool equal to 0.75% of the adjusted net earnings of the Company. Adjusted net earnings of the Company is defined as the net earnings before extraordinary items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Committee. In addition, individual awards are limited to the maximum defined in the 2008 Performance Incentive Plan of one million shares.
At the conclusion of 2010, the performance pool for the 2011 restricted and deferred stock awards will be calculated and divided among the covered officers. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer's maximum award is equal to one-third of the pool and the remaining covered officers each will be eligible for a maximum award equal to one-sixth of the pool, in each case, subject to the individual maximum defined in the 2008 Performance Incentive Plan.
In addition, on February 11, 2010, the Committee approved the formula for determining the maximum award amounts for 2010 annual incentive awards. The formula reflects the Company's intention to qualify, to the extent possible, cash compensation paid to officers as tax deductible, subject to the deductibility limitations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Under the formula, the maximum award amounts are determined based on a performance incentive pool equal to 0.6% of 2010 adjusted net earnings. Adjusted net earnings of the Company is defined as the net earnings before extraordinary items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Committee. In addition, individual award amounts are limited to the shareholder-approved maximum set forth in the 2008 Performance Incentive Plan of $12.0 million.
At the conclusion of 2010, the annual performance pool will be calculated and divided among the covered officers. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer's maximum award under the plan is limited to one-third of the pool, and the remaining covered officers each will be eligible for a maximum award equal to one-sixth of the remaining pool, in each case, subject to the individual maximums defined in the 2008 Performance Incentive Plan.
The Company will provide additional information regarding the compensation of its executive officers in its proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be issued in April 2010.
Amendment to the Philip Morris International Inc. 2008 Performance Incentive Plan
The Board of Directors of the Company approved an amendment to the 2008 Performance Incentive Plan in order to provide "double trigger" change-in-control treatment for awards made on or after February 11, 2010. Pursuant to this amendment, upon a change in control of the Company, an employee's outstanding restricted and deferred stock awards, incentive awards as well as other awards will vest and/or become payable, as the case may be, only in the event that either (A) the acquiror does not assume or replace the awards as set forth in the 2008 Performance Incentive Plan or (B) the acquiror does assume or replace the awards as set forth in the 2008 Performance Incentive Plan the employee is either terminated without "cause" (as defined in the 2008 Performance Incentive Plan) or resigns for "good reason" (as defined in the 2008 Performance Incentive Plan) within two years after a change in control of the Company.
and
The awards described above are governed by this amendment. The text of the 2008 Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective February 11, 2010, is attached as Exhibit 10.3 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, and the foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by the terms thereof.
(d) Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: February 17, 2010
 

Exhibit 10.1
PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC. (the "Company"), a Virginia corporation, hereby grants to the employee identified in the 2010 Restricted Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Employee") under the Philip Morris International Inc. 2008 Performance Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective February 11, 2010) (the "Plan") a Restricted Stock Award (the "Award") dated February 11, 2010 (the "Award Date") with respect to the number of shares set forth in the 2010 Restricted Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Shares") of the Common Stock of the Company (the "Common Stock"), all in accordance with and subject to the following terms and conditions:
1. . The Shares shall be evidenced by a book entry account maintained by the Company's Transfer Agent for the Common Stock. Upon the vesting of Shares, no certificates will be issued except upon a separate written request made to such Transfer Agent or other agent as determined by the Company.
Book Entry Registration
2. . Subject to Section 3 below, the restrictions on the Shares shall lapse and the Shares shall vest on the Vesting Date set forth in the 2010 Restricted Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Vesting Date"), provided that the Employee remains an employee of the PMI Group during the entire period commencing on the Award Date and ending on the Vesting Date.
Restrictions
3. . In the event of the termination of the Employee's employment with the PMI Group prior to the Vesting Date due to death or Disability, or upon the Employee reaching eligibility for Normal Retirement, the restrictions on the Shares shall lapse and the Shares shall become fully vested on the date of death, Disability, or eligibility for Normal Retirement.
Termination of Employment Before Vesting Date
Subject to provisions of Section 6(a) of the Plan, if the Employee's employment with the PMI Group is terminated for any reason other than death or Disability or Normal Retirement prior to the Vesting Date, the Employee shall forfeit all rights to the Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing and except as provided in Section 6(a) of the Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company may, in its sole discretion, waive the restrictions on, and the vesting requirements for, the Shares.
4. . During the Restriction Period, the Employee shall have the right to vote the Shares and to receive any cash dividends payable with respect to the Shares, as paid, less applicable withholding taxes (it being understood that such dividends will generally be taxable as ordinary compensation income during such Restriction Period).
Voting and Dividend Rights
5. . This Award and the Shares (until they become unrestricted pursuant to the terms hereof) are non-transferable and may not be assigned, hypothecated or otherwise pledged and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to effect any such disposition, or upon the levy of any such process, the Award shall immediately become null and void and the Shares shall be forfeited.
Transfer Restrictions
6. . The Company is authorized to satisfy the actual minimum statutory withholding taxes arising from the granting, or vesting of this Award, as the case may be, by deducting the number of Shares having an aggregate value equal to the amount of withholding taxes due from the total number of Shares awarded, vested, or otherwise becoming subject to current taxation. The Company is also authorized to satisfy the actual withholding taxes arising from the granting or vesting of this Award, or
Withholding Taxes
hypothetical withholding tax amounts if the Employee is covered under a Company tax equalization policy, as the case may be, by the remittance of the required amounts from any proceeds realized upon the open-market sale of the vested Shares by the Employee. Shares deducted from this Award in satisfaction of actual minimum withholding tax requirements shall be valued at the Fair Market Value of the vested Shares on the date as of which the amount giving rise to the withholding requirement first became includible in the gross income of the Employee under applicable tax laws. If the Employee is covered by a Company tax equalization policy, the Employee also agrees to pay to the Company any additional hypothetical tax obligation calculated and paid under the terms and conditions of such tax equalization policy.
7. . If any of the Shares shall vest upon the death of the Employee, they shall be registered in the name of the estate of the Employee except that, to the extent permitted by the Compensation Committee, if the Company shall have theretofore received in writing a beneficiary designation, the Shares shall be registered in the name of the designated beneficiary.
Death of Employee
8. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Board of Directors of the Company or an appropriate Committee of the Board determines that, as a result of fraud, misconduct, a restatement of the Company's financial statements or a significant write-off not in the ordinary course affecting the Company's financial statements, an Employee has received more compensation in connection with this Award than would been paid absent the fraud, misconduct, write-off or incorrect financial statement, the Board or Committee, in its discretion, shall take such action with respect to this Award as it deems necessary or appropriate to address the events that gave rise to the fraud, misconduct, write-off or restatement and to prevent its recurrence. Such action may include, to the extent permitted by applicable law, in appropriate cases, causing the partial or full cancellation of this Award and, with respect to Shares that have vested, requiring the Employee to repay to the Company the partial or full Fair Market Value of the Award determined at the time of vesting. The Employee agrees by accepting this Award that the Board or Committee may make such a cancellation, impose such a repayment obligation, or take other necessary or appropriate action in such circumstances.
Board Authorization in the Event of Restatement
9. . The terms and provisions of the Plan (a copy of which will be furnished to the Employee upon written request to the Office of the Secretary, Philip Morris International Inc., 120 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017) are incorporated herein by reference. To the extent any provision of this Award is inconsistent or in conflict with any term or provision of the Plan, the Plan shall govern. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meaning set forth in the Plan. Subject to the provisions of section 6(a), in the event of any merger, share exchange, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, distribution, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, spin-off, issuance of rights or warrants or other similar transaction or event affecting the Common Stock after the date of this Award, the Board of Directors of the Company is authorized, to the extent it deems appropriate, to make adjustments to the number and kind of shares of stock subject to this Award, including the substitution of equity interests in other entities involved in such transactions, to provide for cash payments in lieu of Shares, and to determine whether continued employment with any entity resulting from such a transaction will or will not be treated as continued employment with the PMI Group, in each case subject to any Board or Committee action specifically addressing any such adjustments, cash payments, or continued employment treatment.
Other Terms and Definitions
For purposes of this Agreement, (a) the term "Disability" means permanent and total disability as determined under procedures established by the Company for purposes of the Plan, and (b) the term "Normal Retirement" means retirement from active employment under a pension plan of any member of the PMI Group or under an employment contract with any member of the PMI Group on or after the date specified as the normal retirement age in the pension plan or employment contract, if any, under which the Employee is at that time accruing pension benefits for his or her current service (or, in the absence of a specified normal retirement age, the age at which pension benefits under such plan or contract become payable without reduction for early commencement and without any requirement of a particular period of
 
prior service). In any case in which (i) the meaning of "Normal Retirement" is uncertain under the definition contained in the prior sentence or (ii) a termination of employment at or after age 65 would not otherwise constitute "Normal Retirement," an Employee's termination of employment shall be treated as a "Normal Retirement" under such circumstances as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems equivalent to retirement. "PMI Group" means the Company and each of its subsidiaries and affiliates. Generally, for purposes of this Agreement, (x) a "subsidiary" includes only any company in which the Company, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent and (y) an "affiliate" includes only any company that (A) has a beneficial ownership interest, directly or indirectly, in the Company of greater than 50 percent or (B) is under common control with the Company through a parent company that, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent in both the Company and the affiliate.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restricted Stock Agreement has been duly executed as of February 11, 2010.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC. (the "Company"), a Virginia corporation, hereby grants to the employee identified in the 2010 Deferred Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Employee") under the Philip Morris International Inc. 2008 Performance Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective February 11, 2010) (the "Plan") a Deferred Stock Award (the "Award") dated February 11, 2010 (the "Award Date") with respect to the number of shares set forth in the 2010 Deferred Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Deferred Shares") of the Common Stock of the Company (the "Common Stock"), all in accordance with and subject to the following terms and conditions:
1. . Subject to Section 2 below, the restrictions on the Deferred Shares shall lapse and the Deferred Shares shall vest on the Vesting Date set forth in the 2010 Deferred Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Vesting Date"), provided that the Employee remains an employee of the PMI Group during the entire period commencing on the Award Date and ending on the Vesting Date.
Restrictions
2. . In the event of the termination of the Employee's employment with the PMI Group prior to the Vesting Date due to death, Disability or Normal Retirement, the restrictions on the Deferred Shares shall lapse and the Deferred Shares shall become fully vested on the date of death, Disability, or Normal Retirement.
Termination of Employment Before Vesting Date
Subject to the provisions of section 6(a) of the Plan, if the Employee's employment with the PMI Group is terminated for any reason other than death, Disability, or Normal Retirement prior to the Vesting Date, the Employee shall forfeit all rights to the Deferred Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing and except as provided in section 6(a) of the Plan, upon the termination of an Employee's employment with the PMI Group, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company may, in its sole discretion, waive the restrictions on, and the vesting requirements for, the Deferred Shares.
3. . The Employee does not have the right to vote the Deferred Shares or receive dividends prior to the date, if any, such Deferred Shares are paid to the Employee in the form of Common Stock pursuant to the terms hereof. However, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Employee shall receive cash payments (less applicable withholding taxes) in lieu of dividends otherwise payable with respect to shares of Common Stock equal in number to the Deferred Shares that have not been forfeited, as such dividends are paid.
Voting and Dividend Rights
4. . This Award and the Deferred Shares are non-transferable and may not be assigned, hypothecated or otherwise pledged and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to effect any such disposition, or upon the levy of any such process, the Award shall immediately become null and void and the Deferred Shares shall be forfeited. These restrictions shall not apply, however, to any payments received pursuant to Section 7 below.
Transfer Restrictions
5. . The Company is authorized to satisfy the actual minimum statutory withholding taxes arising from the granting, vesting, or payment of this Award, as the case may be, by deducting the number of Deferred Shares having an aggregate value equal to the amount of withholding taxes due from the total number of Deferred Shares awarded, vested, paid, or otherwise becoming subject to current taxation. The Company is also authorized to satisfy the actual withholding taxes arising from the granting or vesting of this Award, or hypothetical withholding tax amounts if the Employee is covered under a Company tax equalization policy, as the case may be, by the remittance of the required amounts from any
Withholding Taxes
proceeds realized upon the open-market sale of the Common Stock received in payment of vested Deferred Shares by the Employee. Deferred Shares deducted from this Award in satisfaction of actual minimum withholding tax requirements shall be valued at the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock received in payment of vested Deferred Shares on the date as of which the amount giving rise to the withholding requirement first became includible in the gross income of the Employee under applicable tax laws. If the Employee is covered by a Company tax equalization policy, the Employee also agrees to pay to the Company any additional hypothetical tax obligation calculated and paid under the terms and conditions of such tax equalization policy.
6. . If any of the Deferred Shares shall vest upon the death of the Employee, any Common Stock received in payment of the vested Deferred Shares shall be registered in the name of the estate of the Employee except that, to the extent permitted by the Compensation Committee, if the Company shall have received in writing a beneficiary designation, the Common Stock shall be registered in the name of the designated beneficiary.
Death of Employee
7. . Each Deferred Share granted pursuant to this Award represents an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Company to issue to the Employee, on or as soon as practicable after the date the Deferred Share becomes fully vested pursuant to Section 1 or 2 and otherwise subject to the terms of this Agreement, the value of one share of the Common Stock. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Statement and subject to the terms of this Agreement, such issuance shall be made to the Employee (or, in the event of his or her death to the Employee's estate or beneficiary as provided above) in the form of Common Stock as soon as practicable following the full vesting of the Deferred Share pursuant to Section 1 or 2, provided, however, that if the Company determines that settlement in the form of Common Stock is impractical or impermissible under the laws of the Employee's country of residence, the Deferred Shares will be settled in the form of cash.
Payment of Deferred Shares
8. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Employee is subject to US Federal income tax on any part of the payment of the Deferred Shares, and will become eligible for Normal Retirement (A) for Deferred Shares with a Vesting Date between January 1 and March 15, before the calendar year preceding the Vesting Date and (B) for Deferred Shares with a Vesting Date after March 15, before the calendar year in which such Vesting Date occurs, then the Deferred Shares shall be subject to the following provisions of this Section 8. If the Employee is a "specified employee" within the meaning of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder ("Code section 409A"), any payment of Deferred Shares under Section 7 that is on account of his separation from service scheduled to be paid within six months after such separation from service shall accrue without interest and shall be paid on the first day of the seventh month beginning after the date of the Participant's separation from service or, if earlier, within fifteen days after the appointment of the personal representative or executor of the Participant's estate following the Participant's death. In the event of a "Change in Control" under section 6(c) of the Plan that is not also a "change in control event" with the meaning of Treas. Reg. 1.409A-3(i)(5)(i), the Deferred Shares shall vest as set forth in section 6(a) of the Plan, but shall not be paid upon such Change in Control as provided by section 6(a) of the Plan, and shall instead be paid at the time the Deferred Shares would otherwise be paid pursuant to this Agreement. References to termination of employment, separation from service shall be interpreted to mean a separation from service, within the meaning of Code section 409A, with the Company and all of its affiliates treated as a single employer under Code section 409A. This Agreement shall be construed in a manner consistent with Code section 409A.
Special Payment Provisions
9. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Board of Directors of the Company or an appropriate Committee of the Board determines that, as a result of fraud, misconduct, a restatement of the Company's financial statements, or a significant write-off not in the ordinary course affecting the Company's financial statements, an Employee has received more compensation in connection with this Award than would been
Board Authorization in the Event of Restatement
 
paid absent the fraud, misconduct, write-off or incorrect financial statement, the Board or Committee, in its discretion, shall take such action with respect to this Award as it deems necessary or appropriate to address the events that gave rise to the fraud, misconduct, write-off or restatement and to prevent its recurrence. Such action may include, to the extent permitted by applicable law, in appropriate cases, causing the partial or full cancellation of this Award and, with respect to Deferred Shares that have vested, requiring the Employee to repay to the Company the partial or full Fair Market Value of the Award determined at the time of vesting. The Employee agrees by accepting this Award that the Board or Committee may make such a cancellation, impose such a repayment obligation, or take other necessary or appropriate action in such circumstances.
10. . The terms and provisions of the Plan (a copy of which will be furnished to the Employee upon written request to the Office of the Secretary, Philip Morris International Inc., 120 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017) are incorporated herein by reference. To the extent any provision of this Award is inconsistent or in conflict with any term or provision of the Plan, the Plan shall govern. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meaning set forth in the Plan. Subject to the provisions of section 6(a) of the Plan, in the event of any merger, share exchange, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, distribution, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, spin-off, issuance of rights or warrants or other similar transaction or event affecting the Common Stock after the date of this Award, the Board of Directors of the Company is authorized, to the extent it deems appropriate, to make adjustments to the number and kind of shares of stock subject to this Award, including the substitution of equity interests in other entities involved in such transactions, to provide for cash payments in lieu of Deferred Shares, and to determine whether continued employment with any entity resulting from such a transaction will or will not be treated as continued employment with the PMI Group, in each case subject to any Board or Committee action specifically addressing any such adjustments, cash payments, or continued employment treatment.
Other Terms and Definitions
For purposes of this Agreement, (a) the term "Disability" means permanent and total disability as determined under procedures established by the Company for purposes of the Plan, and (b) the term "Normal Retirement" means retirement from active employment under a pension plan of any member of the PMI Group or under an employment contract with any member of the PMI Group on or after the date specified as the normal retirement age in the pension plan or employment contract, if any, under which the Employee is at that time accruing pension benefits for his or her current service (or, in the absence of a specified normal retirement age, the age at which pension benefits under such plan or contract become payable without reduction for early commencement and without any requirement of a particular period of prior service). In any case in which (i) the meaning of "Normal Retirement" is uncertain under the definition contained in the prior sentence or (ii) a termination of employment at or after age 65 would not otherwise constitute "Normal Retirement," an Employee's termination of employment shall be treated as a "Normal Retirement" under such circumstances as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems equivalent to retirement. "PMI Group" means the Company and each of its subsidiaries and affiliates. Generally, for purposes of this Agreement, (x) a "subsidiary" includes only any company in which the Company, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent and (y) an "affiliate" includes only any company that (A) has a beneficial ownership interest, directly or indirectly, in the Company of greater than 50 percent or (B) is under common control with the Company through a parent company that, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent in both the Company and the affiliate.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Deferred Stock Agreement has been duly executed as of February 11, 2010.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
Section 1. Purpose; Definitions.
The purpose of the Plan is to support the Company's ongoing efforts to develop and retain world-class leaders and to provide the Company with the ability to provide incentives more directly linked to the profitability of the Company's businesses and increases in stockholder value.
For purposes of the Plan, the following terms are defined as set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
A termination for Cause must be communicated to the Participant by written notice that specifies the event or events claimed to provide a basis for termination for Cause.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A termination for Good Reason must be communicated to the Company by written notice that specifies the event or events claimed to provide a basis for termination for Good Reason; provided that the Participant's written notice must be tendered within ninety (90) days of the occurrence of such event or events and, provided further, that the Company shall have failed to remedy such act or omission within thirty (30) days following its receipt of such notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the terms "Affiliated Group," "Business Combination," "Change in Control," "Change in Control Price," "Incumbent Board," "Outstanding Company Stock," "Outstanding Company Voting Securities" and "Person" have the meanings set forth in Section 6.
Section 2. Administration.
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have the power to interpret the Plan and to adopt such rules and guidelines for carrying out the Plan as it may deem appropriate. The Committee shall have the authority to adopt such modifications, procedures and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with the laws, regulations, compensation practices and tax and accounting principles of the countries in which the Company, a subsidiary or an affiliate may operate to assure the viability of the benefits of Awards made to individuals employed in such countries and to meet the objectives of the Plan.
Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority to determine those employees eligible to receive Awards and the amount, type and terms of each Award and to establish and administer any Performance Goals applicable to such Awards. The Committee may delegate its authority and power under the Plan to one or more officers of the Company, subject to guidelines prescribed by the Committee, but only with respect to Participants who are not subject to either Section 16 of the Exchange Act or Section 162(m) (or any amended or successor provision) of the Code.
Any determination made by the Committee or by one or more officers pursuant to delegated authority in accordance with the provisions of the Plan with respect to any Award shall be made in the sole discretion of the Committee or such delegate, and all decisions made by the Committee or any appropriately designated officer pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Company and Plan Participants.
Section 3. Eligibility.
Salaried employees of the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates, who are responsible for or contribute to the management, growth and profitability of the business of the Company, its subsidiaries or its affiliates, are eligible to be granted Awards under the Plan. Furthermore, employees and former employees of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, employees and former employees of Kraft Foods Inc. and its subsidiaries, and employees and former employees of SABMiller plc and its subsidiaries were eligible to be granted Awards under the Plan in connection with an event in which the Company ceased to be a subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc.
Section 4. Common Stock Subject to the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5. Awards.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 6. Change in Control Provisions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7. Plan Amendment and Termination.
The Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time, provided that no such amendment shall be made without stockholder approval if such approval is required under applicable law, regulation, or stock exchange rule, or if such amendment would (i) decrease the grant or exercise price of any Stock Option, SAR or Other Stock-Based Award to less than the Fair Market Value on the date of grant, or (ii) increase the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be distributed under the Plan. Except as may be necessary to comply with a change in the laws, regulations or accounting principles of a foreign country applicable to Participants subject to the laws of such foreign country, the Committee may not, without stockholder approval, cancel any Stock Option and substitute therefor a new Stock Option with a lower grant price. Except as set forth in any Award agreement or as necessary to comply with applicable law or avoid adverse tax consequences to some or all Plan Participants, no amendment or termination of the Plan may materially and adversely affect any outstanding Award under the Plan without the Award recipient's consent.
Section 8. Payments and Payment Deferrals.
Payment of Awards may be in the form of cash, Common Stock, other Awards or combinations thereof as the Committee shall determine, and with such restrictions as it may impose. The Committee, either at the time of grant or by subsequent amendment, may require or permit deferral of the payment of Awards, under such rules and procedures as it may establish, provided, however, that any Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, and similar Other Stock-Based Awards that are not subject to Section 409A of the Code but would be subject to Section 409A if a deferral were permitted, shall not be subject to any deferral. The Committee may also provide that deferred settlements include the payment or crediting of interest or other earnings on the deferred amounts, or the payment or crediting of dividend equivalents where the deferred amounts are denominated in Common Stock equivalents. Any deferral and related terms and conditions shall comply with Section 409A of the Code and any regulations and other guidance thereunder.
Section 9. Dividends and Dividend Equivalents.
The Committee may provide that any Awards under the Plan earn dividends or dividend equivalents. Such dividends or dividend equivalents may be paid currently or may be credited to a Participant's Plan account. Any crediting of dividends or dividend equivalents may be subject
 
to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee may establish, including reinvestment in additional shares of Common Stock or Common Stock equivalents.
Section 10. Transferability.
Except as provided in the applicable Award agreement or otherwise required by law, Awards shall not be transferable or assignable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Section 11. Award Agreements.
Each Award under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written agreement (which need not be signed by the recipient unless otherwise specified by the Committee) that sets forth the terms, conditions and limitations for each Award. Such terms may include, but are not limited to, the term of the Award, vesting and forfeiture provisions, and the provisions applicable in the event the Participant's employment terminates. The Committee may amend an Award agreement, provided that, except as set forth in any Award agreement or as necessary to comply with applicable law or avoid adverse tax consequences to some or all Plan Participants, no such amendment may materially and adversely affect an Award without the Participant's consent.
Section 12. Unfunded Status of Plan.
It is presently intended that the Plan constitute an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. The Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under the Plan to deliver Common Stock or make payments; provided, however, that, unless the Committee otherwise determines, the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the "unfunded" status of the Plan.
Section 13. General Provisions.
 
All certificates for shares of Common Stock or other securities delivered under the Plan shall be subject to such stock transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Commission, any stock exchange upon which the Common Stock is then listed, and any applicable Federal, state or foreign securities law, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


