FILE:PM/PM-8K-20100615130022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, on July 10, 2009, Philip Morris International Inc. (the "Company") entered into an agreement to purchase 100% of the shares of privately owned Colombian cigarette manufacturer, Productora Tabacalera de Colombia, Protabaco, Ltda., for $452 million. The transaction was subject to competition authority approval and final confirmatory due diligence.
On June 12, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing the Colombian competition authority's initial decision not to approve the Company's application for the acquisition, as proposed, and the commencement of a reconsideration process.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: June 15, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
BOGOTA, COLOMBIA, June 12, 2010. Philip Morris International Inc. (PMI) expressed today its disappointment with the initial decision of the Superintendent of Industry and Commerce (SIC) of not approving its application for the acquisition of Protabaco, as proposed, and announced that it will seek reconsideration of the initial decision.
James Mortensen, PMI's President for Latin America & Canada, said that "We are obviously disappointed with this initial decision but the process is continuing and PMI is committed to working with the SIC to address its concerns and we remain hopeful we can successfully complete the acquisition of Protabaco, the second largest cigarette manufacturer in Colombia." Mortensen added that "PMI is the best partner for Protabaco, its workers, Colombian growers, and the community in general."
PMI has demonstrated its strong commitment to the country by promoting the expansion of employment and development in rural tobacco growing areas, providing support to the process of the Reintegration Office and combating the illicit trade of tobacco products. Mortensen reiterated PMI's strong interest in further investments in these areas.
Philip Morris International Inc. Profile
Philip Morris International Inc. (PMI) is the leading international tobacco company, with seven of the world's top 15 brands, including , the number one cigarette brand worldwide. PMI has more than 77,000 employees and its products are sold in approximately 160 countries. In 2009, the company held an estimated 15.4% share of the total international cigarette market outside of the U.S., or 26.0% excluding the People's Republic of China and the U.S. For more information, see www.pmi.com.
Marlboro
For further information, contact:
Luca Esparza or Humberto Mora
Cell: (57) 3122869940


