FILE:PM/PM-8K-20111116120716.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 16, 2011, Philip Morris International Inc. (the "Company") is hosting a live audio webcast of a presentation at the Morgan Stanley Global Consumer & Retail Conference where the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Louis C. Camilleri, will address investors. In connection with the presentation, the Company has issued a press release announcing the key highlights of the presentation. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. The reconciliations of non-GAAP measures included in the press release to the most comparable GAAP measures are attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information on the Company's website referenced in the press release, including the presentation at the Morgan Stanley Global Consumer & Retail Conference, is not, and shall not be deemed to be, part of this Form 8-K or incorporated into any filing the Company makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission, except as expressly set forth in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: November 16, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEW YORK, November 16, 2011  Philip Morris International Inc. (NYSE/Euronext Paris: PM) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Louis Camilleri, addresses investors today at the Morgan Stanley Global Consumer & Retail Conference in New York.
The presentation and Q&A session are being webcast live at www.pmi.com, in a listen-only mode, beginning at approximately 12 Noon Eastern Time. An archived copy of the webcast, together with slides, will be available on the same site.
The presentation includes the following key highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The presentation, related discussion and this release contain statements that, to the extent they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on current plans, estimates and expectations, and are not guarantees of future performance. They are based on management's expectations that involve a number of business risks and uncertainties, any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
The risks and uncertainties relating to the forward-looking statements in the presentation, related discussion and this release include those described under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" in PMI's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. PMI does not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, except in the normal course of its public disclosure obligations.
A glossary of terms and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures included in the presentation to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided either at the end of the presentation or are available on PMI's web site.
Philip Morris International Inc. Profile
Philip Morris International Inc. (PMI) is the leading international tobacco company, with seven of the world's top 15 international brands, including , the number one cigarette brand worldwide. PMI's products are sold in approximately 180 countries. In 2010, the company held an estimated 16.0% share of the total international cigarette market outside of the U.S., or 27.6% excluding the People's Republic of China and the U.S. For more information, see www.pmi.com.
Marlboro
 



