FILE:PM/PM-8K-20110106123621.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, on July 10, 2009, Philip Morris International Inc. (the "Company") entered into an agreement to purchase 100% of the shares of privately owned Colombian cigarette manufacturer, Productora Tabacalera de Colombia, Protabaco, Ltda., for $452 million. The transaction was subject to Colombian competition authority approval and final confirmatory due diligence.
While approval to proceed with the acquisition was granted by the Colombian competition authority in October 2010, the approval was subject to several significant conditions and constraints that ultimately proved to be too burdensome.
On January 5, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing that it would no longer pursue its intention to acquire Productora Tabacalera de Colombia, Protabaco Ltda.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: January 6, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEW YORK, January 5, 2011  Philip Morris International Inc. (NYSE / Euronext Paris: PM) today announced that it would no longer pursue its intention to acquire Productora Tabacalera de Colombia, Protabaco Ltda.
While approval to proceed with the acquisition was granted by the Superintendent of Industry and Trade of Colombia in October 2010, the approval was subject to several significant conditions and constraints that ultimately proved to be too burdensome.
"After an exhaustive review of our options, we regretfully have concluded that the transaction, in light of the conditions, would not satisfy the strategic and financial objectives that were originally envisaged and therefore we have decided not to pursue the acquisition of Protabaco," said James Mortensen, President, Latin America & Canada Region.
"Colombia continues to be an important market for us and our commitment to the country and our employees remains steadfast," he added.
Philip Morris International Inc. Profile
Philip Morris International Inc. (PMI) is the leading international tobacco company, with seven of the world's top 15 brands, including , the number one cigarette brand worldwide. PMI's products are sold in approximately 160 countries. In 2009, the company held an estimated 15.4% share of the total international cigarette market outside of the U.S., or 26.0% excluding the People's Republic of China and the U.S. For more information, see www.pmi.com.
Marlboro


