FILE:PM/PM-8K-20121113121745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 13, 2012
 
 
Philip Morris International Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (917) 663-2000
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 13, 2012, Philip Morris International Inc. (the "Company") is hosting a live webcast of a presentation at the Morgan Stanley Global Consumer & Retail Conference where the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Louis C. Camilleri, will address investors. In connection with the presentation, the Company has issued a press release announcing the key highlights of the presentation. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Adjusted diluted EPS is not a U.S. GAAP measure. The Company defines adjusted diluted EPS as reported diluted EPS adjusted for asset impairment and exit costs, discrete tax items and unusual items. The Company believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure as it represents core earnings, improves comparability and helps investors analyze business performance and trends. Adjusted diluted EPS should be considered neither in isolation nor as a substitute for reported diluted EPS prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
The information on the Company's website referenced in the press release, including the presentation at the Morgan Stanley Global Consumer & Retail Conference, is not, and shall not be deemed to be, part of this Form 8-K or incorporated into any filing PMI makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission, except as may be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
        
PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC.
By:    
/s/ JERRY WHITSON            
Name:    Jerry Whitson
Title:    Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
DATE:     November 13, 2012
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Investor Relations:        Media:
New York: +1 (917) 663 2233    Lausanne: +41 (0)58 242 4500
Lausanne: +41 (0)58 242 4666
PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC. (PMI) PRESENTS AT
MORGAN STANLEY GLOBAL CONSUMER & RETAIL CONFERENCE
    
NEW YORK, November 13, 2012  Philip Morris International Inc. (NYSE/Euronext Paris: PM) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Louis Camilleri, addresses investors today at the Morgan Stanley Global Consumer & Retail Conference in New York.
The presentation and Q&A session are being webcast live at www.pmi.com, in a listen-only mode, beginning at approximately 12 Noon Eastern Time. An archived copy of the webcast, together with slides, will be available on the same site. The presentation includes the following key highlights:
The presentation, related discussion and this release contain statements that, to the extent they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on current plans, estimates and expectations, and are not guarantees of future performance.
They are based on management's expectations that involve a number of business risks and uncertainties, any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
The risks and uncertainties relating to the forward-looking statements in the presentation, related discussion and this release include those described under Item 1A. Risk Factors in PMIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. PMI does not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, except in the normal course of its public disclosure obligations.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share of $4.88 in 2011 is calculated as reported diluted earnings per share of $4.85, less a $0.02 per share benefit for discrete tax items, plus a $0.05 per share charge related to asset impairment and exit costs.
The guidance excludes the impact of potential future acquisitions, unanticipated asset impairment and exit cost charges, and any unusual events.
A glossary of terms and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures included in the presentation to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided either at the end of the presentation or are available on PMIs web site.
###
Philip Morris International Inc
.
Philip Morris International Inc. (PMI) is the leading international tobacco company, with seven of the worlds top 15 international brands, including
Marlboro
, the number one cigarette brand worldwide. PMIs products are sold in approximately 180 countries. In 2011, the company held an estimated 16.0% share of the total international cigarette market outside of the U.S., or 28.1% excluding the Peoples Republic of China and the U.S. For more information, see www.pmi.com.


