FILE:PM/PM-8K-20120223092133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 23, 2012, Philip Morris International Inc. ("PMI") is hosting a live audio webcast of a presentation at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York conference where PMI's Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Hermann Waldemer, will address investors. PMI has issued a press release announcing the key highlights of the presentation. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Adjusted diluted EPS is not a U.S. GAAP measure. PMI defines adjusted diluted EPS as reported diluted EPS adjusted for asset impairment and exit costs, discrete tax items and unusual items. PMI believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure as it represents core earnings, improves comparability and helps investors analyze business performance and trends. Adjusted diluted EPS should be considered neither in isolation nor as a substitute for reported diluted EPS prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
The information on PMI's website referenced in the press release, including the presentation at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York conference, is not, and shall not be deemed to be, part of this Form 8-K or incorporated into any filing PMI makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission, except as expressly set forth in such a filing.
 
(d)
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: February 23, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEW YORK, February 23, 2012  Philip Morris International Inc.'s (NYSE / Paris Euronext: PM) Chief Financial Officer, Hermann Waldemer, addresses investors today at the CAGNY Conference in Boca Raton, Florida.
The presentation and Q&A session are being webcast live, in a listen-only mode, beginning at approximately 9:15 a.m. ET, at . An archived copy of the webcast, together with presentation remarks and slides, will be available on the same site.
www.pmi.com
The presentation's key focus is on the elements that define PMI, notably its: commitment to shareholder value; world-class portfolio of brands; global footprint; and strong free cash flow generation. The presentation also highlights some of the principal drivers of its ability to deliver solid and reliable results.
PMI also reaffirms its guidance, announced on February 9, for 2012 full-year reported diluted earnings per share to be in a range of $5.25 to $5.35, at prevailing exchange rates at that time, versus $4.85 in 2011, resulting in an anticipated unfavorable currency impact of approximately $0.10 for 2012. Excluding the unfavorable currency impact, reported diluted earnings per share are projected to increase by approximately 10% to 12% versus reported diluted earnings per share in 2011, or by approximately the same percentages versus 2011 adjusted diluted earnings per share of $4.88.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share of $4.88 in 2011 is calculated as reported diluted earnings per share of $4.85, less a $0.02 per share benefit for discrete tax items, plus a $0.05 per share charge related to asset impairment and exit costs.
This guidance excludes the impact of potential future acquisitions, unanticipated asset impairment and exit cost charges, and any unusual events.
The presentation, related discussion and this release contain statements that, to the extent they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on current plans, estimates and expectations, and are not guarantees of future performance. They are based on management's expectations that involve a number of business risks and uncertainties, any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
The risks and uncertainties relating to the forward-looking statements in the presentation, related discussion and this release include those described under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" in PMI's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. PMI does not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, except in the normal course of its public disclosure obligations.
About Philip Morris International Inc.
Philip Morris International Inc. (PMI) is the leading international tobacco company, with seven of the world's top 15 international brands, including Marlboro, the number one cigarette brand worldwide. PMI's products are sold in approximately 180 countries. In 2011, the company held an estimated 16.0% share of the total international cigarette market outside of the U.S., or 28.1% excluding the People's Republic of China and the U.S. For more information, see www.pmi.com.


