FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20020813161316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.    REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
Xilinx, Inc. ("Xilinx") is furnishing herewith the Statements Under Oath of its Principal Executive Officer and its Principal Financial Officer regarding facts and circumstances relating to Exchange Act Filings as Exhibits 99.6 and 99.7 hereto, respectively, which are included herein. Willem P. Roelandts, President and Chief Executive Officer of Xilinx, and Kris Chellam, Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Xilinx, signed these statements, which are being filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on August 13, 2002, pursuant to the SEC's Order No. 4-460 (June 27, 2002).
 
Item 7.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(c)    Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are included herein:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
August 9, 2002
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.6
 
 
I, Willem P. Roelandts, Chief Executive Officer of Xilinx, Inc., state and attest that:
 
(1)    To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Xilinx, Inc., and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:
 
 
 
(2)    I have reviewed the contents of this statement with Xilinx's Audit Committee.
 
(3)    In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report":
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.7
 
 
I, Kris Chellam, Chief Financial Officer of Xilinx, Inc., state and attest that:
 
(1)    To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Xilinx, Inc., and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:
 
 
 
(2)    I have reviewed the contents of this statement with Xilinx's Audit Committee.
 
(3)    In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report":
 
 
 
 


