FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20030717162117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Exhibits.
                                     
 
Exhibits:
(c)
            
 
The following exhibit is filed with this report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Item 9.
Regulation FD Disclosure and Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Item 12)*
                                     
 
The following information and exhibit relating thereto are furnished pursuant to Items 9 and 12 of this Current Report on Form 8-K:  On July 17, 2003, Xilinx, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the fiscal quarter ended June 28, 2003.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information furnished under Item 9 and Item 12 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
*
            
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact: Lori Owen Xilinx, Inc. (408) 879-6911 ir@xilinx.com
 
 
 Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced results for the first quarter of fiscal 2004.  For the quarter, Xilinx recorded revenues of $313.3 million and a net income of $46.2 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, including a pre-tax $6.4 million charge relating to litigation.  This compares to a net income of $49.4 million or $0.14 per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003.
SAN JOSE, CA, JULY 17, 2003
 
Quarterly Information
(In millions, except EPS)
 
 
-II and Spartan-IIE FPGA families, which are used in a broad base of applications.  Additionally, sales from the newest Virtex product family, Virtex-II Pro, tripled in the June quarter.
Sales of New Products increased 18% sequentially during the quarter.  Much of this growth was driven by continued strong customer adoption of the Virtex
 
Sales from customers in Japan and Asia Pacific continued to increase on a sequential basis and represented a record 34% of total Xilinx sales in the June quarter, up from 32% in the prior quarter and up from 25% in the same quarter of the prior year.  Much of the growth in these regions is attributable to strength in consumer-oriented applications.  During the June quarter, the Consumer, Industrial & Other category increased 26% sequentially to a record 31% of Xilinx revenues, up from 25% in the prior quarter.  "Xilinx's revenue growth in the Asia/Japan markets and in consumer applications is a testament to the increasing acceptance of programmable logic in regions that have traditionally been served by ASICs.  It also speaks to the continued success of Xilinx's focused diversification efforts," said Wim Roelandts, President and Chief Executive Officer.
 
Business Review  June Quarter FY04
 
Xilinx generated $131 million in cash flow from operations.
 - 
                 
Total inventory days at Xilinx and worldwide distributors were 121 days, up from 117 days last quarter.
 - 
                 
Accounts receivables days sales outstanding were 40, down from 59 in the prior quarter.
 - 
                 
Capital expenditures and depreciation were $9 million and $13 million, respectively.
 - 
                 
Revenue by Geography:
 
 
Revenue by End Market:
 
 
Revenue by Product*:
 
 
*Products are classified as follows:
 
, Virtex-II, Virtex-II Pro, Virtex-II Easypath and CoolRunner- II products
New products: Spartan-IIE, Spartan-3
Mainstream products: XC4000XL, XC4000XLA, XC4000XV, Spartan-II, SpartanXL, XC9500XL, XC9500XV, CoolRunner, Virtex-E, Virtex products
Base products: XC2000, XC3000, XC3100, XC4000, XC5200, XC9500, Spartan, XC4000E, XC4000EX products
, Software & Support/Services
Support products: Configuration solutions, HardWire
 
Product Highlights  June Quarter FY04
 
Xilinx shipped its ten millionth Virtex FPGA during the quarter.  Beginning with the introduction of the first Virtex product in August 1998, this family has rapidly become the industry's most popular FPGA, setting records for speed, density and revenue growth.  Today, the Virtex family represents over 80 percent of the industry for FPGAs at 1.5 volts and below.
 - 
                 
 
The industry leading Virtex-II Pro family offers embedded processing and high-speed transceiver technologies at no incremental cost to the customer.  Currently, six Virtex-II Pro parts are qualified and in production on 300mm technology.
 - 
                 
 
Spartan FPGAs continued to lead the way into consumer-oriented applications during the quarter.  Sales from the Spartan family represented a record 19% of total Xilinx revenues in the June quarter, up from 17% in the prior quarter and up from 13% in the same quarter a year ago.
 - 
                 
 
Additionally, the newly introduced Spartan-3 family of FPGAs is quickly gaining traction at existing and new customers.  Spartan-3 devices are the industry's only FPGAs
 - 
                 
manufactured using 90nm technology, which will enable significant cost advantages for Xilinx and our customers.
Business Outlook  September Quarter FY04
 
      Revenues expected to be flat to slightly up sequentially.
 - 
      Gross margin expected to improve slightly.
 - 
      GAAP-basis operating expenses expected to decrease by 4%.
 - 
      Other income should approximate $5.5 million.
 - 
      Tax rate expected to be 25% for fiscal year 2004.
 - 
      Fully diluted share count expected to approximate 353 million.
 - 
 
Business Update  September Quarter FY04
 
A second quarter business update will be issued in the form of a press release after the market closes on Tuesday, September 9, 2003.  Financial guidance to the investment community will be limited to the points mentioned in the business update document.  Please sign up for a push email alert, which is available from our investor relations web site at http://www.investor.xilinx.com.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including the general health of global economies as well as of the semiconductor industry, the health of our end markets and our customers' customers, our ability to forecast end customer demand, potential impact to customer ordering patterns, customer acceptance of our new products, the ability of our customers to manage their inventories, higher-than-anticipated product delinquencies, more customer volume discounts than expected, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to successfully migrate to 300mm wafers as well as to 130nm and 90nm process technology, currency fluctuations and their respective impact to customer purchasing power, variability in wafer pricing, stock price fluctuations and amount of share buyback, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Form 10K.
 
About Xilinx
 
Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) is the worldwide leader of programmable logic solutions. Additional information about Xilinx is available athttp://www.xilinx.com.
 
30
 
#03102
 
XILINX, INC.
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
(Unaudited)
 
(In thousands except per share amounts)
 
XILINX, INC.
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
 
Derived from audited financial statements
(1)
         
Xilinx, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)
 


