FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20040422162102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
The following information and exhibit relating thereto are furnished pursuant to Item 5 of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Item 5.      Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On April 22, 2004, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing the declaration of a quarterly dividend and the authorization by the Board of Directors of the repurchase of up to an additional $250 million of its common stock.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 7(c).               Exhibits:
 
The following exhibit is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Investor Relations Contact:
Lori Owen
Xilinx, Inc.
(408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
 
XILINX DECLARES QUARTERLY DIVIDEND AND EXTENDS STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM
 
SAN JOSE, CA, APRIL 22, 2004
 Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share.   The dividend is payable on June 2, 2004 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 12, 2004.
 
"I am confident in our future growth as well as in our ability to generate cash," said Wim Roelandts, Xilinx Chairman and CEO. "The past 20 years has established the Programmable Logic segment of the semiconductor industry as a premier wealth creator, consistently generating high levels of profitability and free cash flow.  Paying a dividend is an excellent way to return some of the value created to our stockholders."
 
Additionally, the Board authorized a stock repurchase whereby up to $250 million of its common stock will be purchased in the open market. Since fiscal 1997, the Company has repurchased approximately 37 million shares for approximately $900 million. Timing of repurchases and exact number of shares of common stock to be purchased will depend upon prevailing market conditions and other factors.  The approximate number of total shares outstanding as of April 3, 2004 was 347 million.
 
"We believe the combination of the dividend and the repurchase programs demonstrates our commitment to long-term shareholder value," said Roelandts.
 
This release contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.  Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including the general health of global economies as well as of the semiconductor industry, Xilinx's continued profitability and its ability to continue to generate cash at a rate necessary to continue paying cash dividends or repurchasing stock and other risk factors listed in our most recent Form 10K.
 
About Xilinx
 
Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) is the worldwide leader of programmable logic solutions. Additional information about Xilinx is available at http://www.xilinx.com.
 
30
#0450


