FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20061019163032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Washington, D.C. 20549
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 19, 2006, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006.  A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the effects of stock-based compensation and the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share-based Payment" (SFAS 123(R)). The non-GAAP financial measures used by management and disclosed by the Company exclude the statement of income effects of all forms of stock-based compensation and the effects of SFAS 123(R) upon the number of diluted shares used in calculating non-GAAP net income per share.  These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with or an alternative for GAAP measures and may be different from, and therefore not comparable to, non-GAAP measures used by other companies. The Company has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measuresXilinx believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measures, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and our reconciliations, provides useful information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to Xilinx's financial condition and results of operations.  Xilinx management uses these non-GAAP financial measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in its internal reviews of the financial results of the Company, its presentations of results and forecasts to the Board of Directors and its establishment of internal budgets. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with periods prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) and facilitates comparisons to internal performance forecasts and comparisons with other companies in our industry that separately identify stock-based compensation.  Management further believes that where the adjustments used in calculating non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share are based on specific, identified charges that impact different line items in the statements of income (including cost of revenues, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expense), that it is useful to investors to know how these specific line items in the statements of income are affected by these adjustments.  In particular, as Xilinx begins to apply SFAS 123(R), the Company believes that it
.
is useful to investors to understand how the expenses associated with the application of SFAS 123(R) are being reflected on the Company's statements of income.
The Company applied the modified prospective method of adoption of SFAS 123(R), under which the effects of stock-based compensation are reflected in the Company's GAAP financial statement presentations for and after the first quarter of fiscal 2007, but are not reflected in results for prior periods.  Gross margin, expenses (research and development and selling, general and administrative), operating income, income taxes, net income and net income per share are the primary financial measures that management uses for planning and forecasting future periods which are affected by stock-based compensation.  Because management reviews these financial measures calculated without taking into account the effects of the new requirements under SFAS 123(R), these financial measures are treated as "non-GAAP financial measures" under Securities and Exchange Commission rules.
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact:
Lori Owen
Xilinx, Inc.
(408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
XILINX ANNOUNCES SECOND QUARTER FISCAL 2007 RESULTS; $0.27 EPS
SAN JOSE, CA, OCTOBER 19, 2006
 Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced net revenues of $467.2 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2007,
down 3% sequentially from the prior quarter and up 17% from the same quarter a year ago. Second quarter net income of $93.0 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, increased 13% from the prior quarter, and included stock-based compensation of $21.9 million.
Xilinx also announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per outstanding share of common stock, payable on December 6, 2006 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on November 15, 2006.
Additional second quarter comparisons are represented in the chart below:
GAAP Results
(In millions, except EPS)
 
Results excluding the effects of stock-based compensation
(In millions, except EPS)
 
 
Sales to wireline and wireless communications end markets were particularly weak during the quarter as a result of inventory rebalancing and consolidation activity among several large customers.  All other end markets were up sequentially with the Industrial and Other category posting the strongest sales growth due primarily to strength from defense applications.
"In spite of a seasonally weak quarter, I am pleased with the growth of our New Products, which increased 18% sequentially.  Sales from 90-nanometer (nm) and 65nm products were particularly strong during the quarter representing over 20% of total sales, up from less than 10% a year ago.  Our success on these process nodes is a reflection of our clear technology leadership," said Wim Roelandts, Xilinx chief executive officer.  "Additionally, the rollout of our latest Virtex-5 family, the industry's first field programmable gate array (FPGA) family on 65nm technology, remains on schedule and significantly ahead of competition."
 
Business Review  September Quarter FY07
Total inventory days at Xilinx and distribution were 126 days, up from 117 days last quarter.
                 
Accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 36, up from 29 in the prior quarter.
                 
Capital expenditures and depreciation were both $13 million.
                 
Net Revenues by Geography:
 
Net Revenues by End Market:
 
Net Revenues by Product*:
 
*Products are classified as follows:
 II products
New products: Virtex-5, Virtex-4, Spartan-3, Spartan-3E, and CoolRunner
-
Mainstream products: Virtex-II Pro, Virtex-II, Spartan-IIE, Spartan-II, CoolRunner, Virtex-E products
Base products: Virtex, XC3000, XC3100, XC4000, XC4000XL, XC4000XLA, XC4000XV, XC4000E, XC4000EX, XC5200, XC9500, XC9500XL, XC9500XV and Spartan products
Support products: Configuration solutions, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
Highlights  September quarter fiscal 2007:
Xilinx continued to expand its leadership in 65nm technology and began shipments of Virtex-5 LXT FPGAs.  The LXT platform is the second of four Virtex-5 platforms that Xilinx has begun shipping and features the industry's lowest power 65nm transceivers. Xilinx's 8.2i Integrated Software Environment (ISE) offers full support for Virtex-5 devices, including the Virtex-5 LX330 FPGA, the industry's highest density 65nm FPGA.  Xilinx remains the only PLD company to ship 65nm products.
                       
2
 
For the third consecutive year Xilinx earned the highest ranking for FPGA-level EDA vendor usage among respondents in the FPGA EDA tool vendor survey conducted by , part of CMP Technology LLC. In addition, Xilinx ranked number one in all the categories covering the "most important attributes in selecting an FPGA EDA tool vendor" and scored higher than any other FPGA vendor in user satisfaction. Xilinx top rating is strong testament to its excellence in design tools technology, support and services and the Company's total solutions approach to handling today's complex system designs.
                       
EE Times
Business Outlook  December Quarter FY07
Revenues expected to increase 2% to 5% sequentially.
                       
Gross margin expected to be 61% to 62%, including approximately $2 million of stock-based compensation charges.
                       
R&D and SG&A expenses are expected to be approximately flat sequentially, including approximately $20 million of stock-based compensation.
                       
Other income expected to be approximately $18 million.
                       
Tax rate is expected to be approximately 23%  24%.
                       
Fully diluted share count expected to decrease to approximately 340 million shares.
                       
Business Update  December Quarter FY07
The Company expects to issue a third quarter business update press release after the market closes on Thursday, December 7, 2006.  Financial guidance to the investment community will be limited to the points mentioned in the business update document.  Please sign up for a push email alert, which is available from our investor relations web site at http://www.investor.xilinx.com.
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including the general health of global economies as well as of the semiconductor industry, the health of our end markets and our customers' customers, our ability to forecast end customer demand, customer acceptance of our new products, the ability of our customers to manage their inventories, a high dependence on turns business, higher-than-anticipated product delinquencies, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, our ability to secure meaningful wafer capacity from our suppliers, our ability to secure adequate test, packaging and assembly capacity from our suppliers, our ability to successfully manage production at multiple foundries, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Form 10-K.
About Xilinx
Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) is the worldwide leader of programmable logic solutions. Additional information about Xilinx is available at http://www.xilinx.com.
30
#06105
3
 
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
(1)           Derived from audited financial statements
 
 
 
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the effects of stock-based compensation and the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share-based Payment" (SFAS 123(R)). The non-GAAP financial measures used by management and disclosed by the Company exclude the statement of income effects of all forms of stock-based compensation and the effects of SFAS 123(R) upon the number of diluted shares used in calculating non-GAAP net income per share.  These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with or an alternative for GAAP measures and may be different from, and therefore not comparable to, non-GAAP measures used by other companies. The Company has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. Xilinx believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measures, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and our reconciliations, provides useful information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to Xilinx's financial condition and results of operations.  For additional information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures and their use by Company management, see the Form 8-K dated October 19, 2006 that Xilinx has filed with the SEC.


