FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20070810162158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
On August 7, 2007, Xilinx, Inc. announced that Willem P. Roelandts, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board intends to retire from the positions of President and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO").
     
A press release announcing the retirement of Mr. Roelandts is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
     
In connection with Mr. Roelandts' future retirement, as announced on August 7, 2007, we have entered into an executive succession agreement (the "Succession Agreement") with Mr. Roelandts pursuant to which he will remain President and CEO until a replacement has taken office (the "Succession Date").
     
Subject to Mr. Roelandts' signing the Company's standard form of general release and severance agreement in favor of the Company, and provided that (a) he remain employed as President and CEO until the Succession Date or (b) his employment is terminated for other than cause, but in either case, contingent upon the occurrence of the Succession Date, he will receive as soon as practicable following the Succession Date, a lump sum cash payment (less applicable withholding) equal to the sum of his current annual base salary and his annual bonus (which is equal to 90% of his annual base salary), for an aggregate payment of $1,482,000 (less applicable withholding).
     
In addition, Mr. Roelandts' employment with the Company will terminate on the Succession Date, upon which date he will be deemed to have resigned from all positions he may hold with the Company and/or any of its subsidiaries (other than his positions as a non-employee director and non-executive Chairman of our board), and will receive any earned and unpaid salary and accrued and unused vacation as well as a pro-rated portion of his target annual bonus. In addition, commencing on the Succession Date, the
Company will arrange to provide him and his spouse with continued medical and dental insurance benefits until the earlier of (a) his 65th birthday (whether or not he survives until that date) and (b) the date he becomes eligible under any other medical and dental plans, subject to his continuing to pay the same portion of the insurance premiums for these benefits as he paid during his employment with the Company.
     
On (or as soon as practicable following) the one year anniversary of the Succession Date, he will receive a bonus payment in the amount of $1,800,000 (less applicable withholding), but only if during that one year period he provides such satisfactory assistance and services as may reasonably be requested or otherwise required by the Company to ensure a smooth and successful transition to the positions of President and CEO.
     
During the period that Mr. Roelandts continues to serve as a non-employee member of our board, he will be entitled to: (a) continued vesting of his stock options; provided that upon termination of his service on our board, those of his then outstanding options that would have vested had he remained either employed by the Company or serving on our board until the one-year anniversary of his termination of service will become vested, and his vested options will remain exercisable pursuant to the terms of his option agreements and the applicable equity plans under which the options were granted; provided, however, that if he is prevented from exercising his options by reason of a blackout period, then each then outstanding option will remain exercisable until the earlier of (i) the 60th day following the end of such blackout period, and (ii) the expiration of the term of such option; (b) an annual cash retainer equal to the amount paid to other board members for the applicable period of service; provided, however, that for so long as he continues to serve as Chairman of our board, he will be entitled to two times the annual cash retainer paid to other members of our board; and (c) equity awards, if any, granted at such time and in the same form and amount as the awards that are granted to other members of our board; provided, however, that he will not receive any equity award or other amount that is paid by reason of a director's first election or appointment to our board.
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
    
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
Lori Owen Xilinx, Inc. (408) 879-6911
Investor Relations Contact:
ir@xilinx.com
Lisa Washington Xilinx, Inc. (408) 626-6272
Editorial Contact:
lisa.washington@xilinx.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     
SAN JOSE, CA, AUGUST 7, 2007
 Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) today announced that Willem P. Roelandts, 62, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board intends to retire from the positions of President and Chief Executive Officer. A committee of the Company's Board of Directors has been formed to begin an immediate search for a successor, evaluating both external and internal candidates. Roelandts will remain Chief Executive Officer until a successor is named. Upon retirement, Roelandts will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board.
At the helm of Xilinx since 1996, Roelandts led the company through an intense period of change within the semiconductor industry, growing Xilinx sales from $560 million to over $1.8 billion. During his tenure, Roelandts significantly expanded the Company's global business and initiated its successful market diversification strategy to better address high-growth end markets, including consumer, automotive, industrial and defense. These markets have grown from 12 percent of total revenues in fiscal year 2002 to 45 percent of total revenues today.
     
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar words. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including the ability to retain a qualified CEO candidate in the timeframe noted above and other risk factors listed in our most recent Form 10-K.
About Xilinx
     
Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) is the worldwide leader of programmable logic solutions. Additional information about Xilinx is available at
http://www.xilinx.com.


