FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20071018161923.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 18, 2007, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2007. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

SAN JOSE, CA, OCTOBER 18, 2007
-- Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced net revenues of $444.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, flat sequentially with the prior quarter and down 5% compared to the same quarter a year ago. Second quarter net income was $89.7 million, or $0.30 per diluted share.
The Xilinx Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.12 per outstanding share of common stock, payable on December 5, 2007 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on November 14, 2007.
Additional second quarter comparisons are represented in the chart below:
GAAP Results
(In millions, except EPS)
In spite of flat overall sales growth, sales from Asia Pacific reached record levels. Sales from Asia Pacific represented 30% of sales in the September quarter, up from 25% in the same quarter of the prior year and up from 13% in the same quarter five years ago. This growth is due to a combination of broad-based PLD adoption by customers within the region as well as the continuing trend by US and European companies to outsource manufacturing operations to the Asia Pacific region. Within Asia Pacific, sales from China and Korea recorded the strongest growth on a year-over-year basis driven primarily by increased activities in communications and consumer applications.
"I am pleased with our reduction in inventories as well as our continued operating expense control," said Wim Roelandts, Xilinx chief executive officer. "Combined inventory at Xilinx and distribution decreased by nine days to 92 days in the September quarter. This is lower than we had anticipated entering the quarter and the lowest level in nearly four years. Additionally, operating expenses were lower than forecast."
Business Review  September Quarter Fiscal 2008
Total inventory days at Xilinx and distribution were 92 days, down from 101 days
last quarter.
Accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 48, up from 43 in the prior quarter.
Capital expenditures and depreciation were $13 million and $14 million, respectively.
*Products are classified as follows:
New Products: Virtex-5, Virtex-4, Spartan-3, and CoolRunner II products Mainstream Products: Virtex-II, Spartan-II, CoolRunner and Virtex-E products Base Products: Virtex, Spartan, XC4000 and XC9500 products Support Products: Configuration solutions, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
-
Highlights September Quarter Fiscal 2008:
For the second consecutive quarter, Xilinx experienced strong sales from the domain optimized Virtex-4 FX family, which includes embedded transceiver and processing functionality. Sales from this family increased 170% in the second quarter versus the same quarter a year ago representing over 30% of the overall Virtex-4 family, up from 15% in the same quarter last year.  
Xilinx demonstrated its commitment to serving the high growth Asia Pacific market at the recent opening ceremonies for its new regional headquarters in Singapore. The headquarters provides infrastructure and support for all of Xilinx's activities in the region and includes facilities for research and development, marketing, manufacturing and testing, logistics warehousing and regional business operations. Xilinx is currently the largest PLD vendor in Asia Pacific, with 48% market segment share in CY2006.  
Xilinx received the Cisco Excellence in Delivery and Flexibility supplier appreciation award during the quarter. Xilinx was among an exclusive group of suppliers honored at Cisco's recent 16annual supplier appreciation day and received the award based on its support of Cisco's flexibility and lead-time requirements.
th
  Business Outlook  December Quarter Fiscal 2008
    
    
Revenues are expected to be up 2% to 6% sequentially.
Gross margin is expected to be between 62% and 63%.
Operating expenses are expected to be approximately flat sequentially.
Other income including interest expense is expected to be approximately $12 million.
Tax rate is expected to be approximately 21%.
Fully diluted share count is expected to be approximately 297 million shares.
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar words. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including the general health of global economies as well as of the semiconductor industry, the health of our end markets and our customers' customers, our ability to forecast end customer demand, customer acceptance of our new products, the ability of our customers to manage their inventories, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, our ability to successfully manage production at multiple foundries, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Form 10-K.
About Xilinx
Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) is the worldwide leader of programmable logic solutions. Additional information about Xilinx is available at
http://www.xilinx.com
.
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share amounts)
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
XILINX,
INC.
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) (In thousands)


