FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20070425161956.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 25, 2007, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for both the fiscal quarter ended and the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the effects of stock-based compensation and the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share-based Payment" (SFAS 123(R)). The non-GAAP financial measures used by management and disclosed by the Company exclude the statement of income effects of all forms of stock-based compensation and the effects of SFAS 123(R) upon the number of diluted shares used in calculating non-GAAP net income per share. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with or an alternative for GAAP measures and may be different from, and therefore not comparable to, non-GAAP measures used by other companies. The Company has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Xilinx believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measures, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and our reconciliations, provides useful information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to Xilinx's financial condition and results of operations. Xilinx management uses these non-GAAP financial measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in its internal reviews of the financial results of the Company, its presentations of results and forecasts to the Board of Directors and its establishment of internal budgets. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with periods prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) and facilitates comparisons to internal performance forecasts and comparisons with other companies in our industry that separately identify stock-based compensation. Management further believes that where the adjustments used in calculating non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share are based on specific, identified charges that impact different line items in the statements of income (including cost of revenues, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expense), that it is useful to investors to know how these specific line items in the statements of income are affected by these adjustments. In particular, the Company believes that it is useful to investors to understand how the expenses associated with the application of SFAS 123(R) are being reflected on the Company's statements of income.
The Company applied the modified prospective method of adoption of SFAS 123(R), under which the effects of stock-based compensation are reflected in the Company's GAAP financial statement presentations for and after the first quarter of fiscal 2007, but are not reflected in results for prior periods. Gross margin, expenses (research and development and selling, general and administrative), operating income, income taxes, net income and net income per share are the primary financial measures that management uses for planning and forecasting future periods which are affected by stock-based compensation. Because management reviews these financial measures calculated without taking into account the effects of the new requirements under SFAS 123(R), these financial measures are treated as "non-GAAP financial measures" under Securities and Exchange Commission rules.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits

Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced net revenues of $443.5 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, down 2% sequentially from the prior quarter and down 6% compared to the same quarter a year ago. Fourth quarter net income was $87.6 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, and included stock-based compensation expense of $20.1 million.
SAN JOSE, CA, APRIL 25, 2007 --
Net revenues of $1.84 billion in fiscal 2007 represented an increase of 7% from $1.73 billion in the prior fiscal year. Fiscal 2007 net income was $350.7 million, or $1.02 per diluted share, and included $92.5 million of stock-based compensation expense.
As previously announced on February 26, 2007, the Xilinx Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.12 per outstanding share of common stock, payable on May 30, 2007 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on May 9, 2007.
Additional fourth quarter comparisons are represented in the chart below:
GAAP Results
(In millions, except EPS)
Results Excluding the Effects of Stock-Based Compensation
(In millions, except EPS)
As anticipated, sales decreased in the March quarter driven primarily by declines in defense, wireless and consumer applications. "Sales from wired communication applications, which have been impacted by significant consolidation activity in the telecommunications end market, were up slightly during the quarter after two sequential quarters of steep declines," said Wim Roelandts, Xilinx chief executive officer. "I view this as an optimistic sign that some stabilization in customer ordering patterns may be returning to this sector.
"
Business Review  March Quarter Fiscal 2007
Total inventory days at Xilinx and distribution were 120 days, up from 118 days last quarter.
Accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 37, up from 30 in the prior quarter.
Capital expenditures and depreciation were $63 million and $18 million, respectively.
Net Revenues by Geography:
Net Revenues by End Market:
Net Revenues by Product*:
*Products are classified as follows:
New Products: Virtex-5, Virtex-4, Spartan-3, and CoolRunner II products Mainstream Products: Virtex-II, Spartan-II, CoolRunner and Virtex-E products Base Products: Virtex, Spartan, XC4000 and XC9500 products Support Products: Configuration solutions, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
-
Highlights Fiscal 2007:
Xilinx continued to achieve greater end market diversification in the Consumer and Automotive and Industrial and Other end markets in fiscal 2007. Combined sales from these end markets increased 21% during the fiscal year representing 45% of sales, up from 40% in the prior fiscal year. Within these end markets, sales from defense and consumer applications posted the strongest growth.
During the year, Xilinx demonstrated its strong commitment to returning value to stockholders by raising its dividend twice and continuing to repurchase its stock. Xilinx's dividend is currently $0.12 per common share, a yield of approximately 2% common share at the end of fiscal 2006. Additionally, Xilinx repurchased over 55 reducing the outstanding share count.  
and among the highest in the semiconductor industry. This is up from $0.07 per
million shares of its common stock during fiscal 2007 for $1.43 billion, significantly
Xilinx's successful introduction of 65nm technology in April 2006 enabled the supplies nearly 100% of the PLD industry's 65nm sales. Sales from Xilinx's 65nm
Company to achieve a significant lead over other PLD competitors. Xilinx currently
Virtex-5 family increased significantly during the quarter approaching $5 million.
Xilinx is also the frontrunner in 90nm sales having obtained early leadership with the from products manufactured using 90nm and 65nm process technologies increased than 10% of sales in fiscal 2006.  
introduction of its high volume FPGA family, the Spartan-3 family. Xilinx sales
approximately 130% during fiscal 2007 to represent 21% of total sales, up from less
Xilinx's commitment to corporate responsibility was rewarded when the Company Ethics magazine based on strong financial performance and responsible practices
was named one of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens for 2007 by CRO/Business
concerning environmental and social issues.
Business Outlook  June Quarter Fiscal 2008
Revenues expected to be up 1% to 5% sequentially.
Gross margin expected to be approximately 62%.
Operating expenses are expected to be down approximately 4% to 5% sequentially.
Other income including interest expense is expected to be approximately $15 million.
Tax rate is expected to be approximately 21%.
Fully diluted share count expected to decrease to approximately 302 million shares.
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including the general health of global economies as well as of the semiconductor industry, the health of our end markets and our customers' customers, our ability to forecast end customer demand, customer acceptance of our new products, the ability of our customers to manage their inventories, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, our ability to successfully manage production at multiple foundries, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Form 10-K.
About Xilinx
Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) is the worldwide leader of programmable logic solutions. Additional information about Xilinx is available at http://www.xilinx.com.
30 #0761
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the effects of stock-based compensation and the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share-based Payment" (SFAS 123(R)). The non-GAAP financial measures used by management and disclosed by the Company exclude the statement of income effects of all forms of stock-based compensation and the effects of SFAS 123(R) upon the number of diluted shares used in calculating non-GAAP net income per share. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with or an alternative for GAAP measures and may be different from, and therefore not comparable to, non-GAAP measures used by other companies. The Company has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. Xilinx believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measures, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and our reconciliations, provides useful information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to Xilinx's financial condition and results of operations. For additional information regarding these non-GAAP financial measure s and their use by Company management, see the Form 8-K dated April 25, 2007 that Xilinx has filed with the SEC.


