FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20071205162026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On December 5, 2007, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing a business update for the third quarter of fiscal 2008. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits:
(d) Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
Investor Relations Contact:
Lori Owen Xilinx, Inc. (408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
-- Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today released its business update for the December quarter of fiscal 2008.
SAN JOSE, CA, DECEMBER 5, 2007
December quarter sales are expected to be up 2% to 6% sequentially, consistent with the Company's previous guidance.  
Gross margin and operating expense guidance remains unchanged: Gross margin is expected to be 62%-63% and operating expenses are expected to be flat sequentially.
No conference call will be held in conjunction with this business update. Additional commentary pertaining to the quarter will be available when the company reports its third quarter financial results on January 17, 2008.
To receive Xilinx press releases automatically via email, please sign up for a push email alert, which is available from our investor relations website at: http://www.investor.xilinx.com.
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "expect," "may," "will," "could," "should," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar words. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including the general health of global economies as well as of the semiconductor industry, a high reliance on turns business which is defined as business that is booked and shipped within the quarter, the health of our end markets and our customers' customers, our ability to forecast end customer demand, inventory levels at customers and throughout the supply chain, customer acceptance of our new products, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Xilinx assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements or projections.
About Xilinx
Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) is the worldwide leader of programmable logic solutions. Additional information about Xilinx is available at http://www.xilinx.com.


