FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20070719163045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 19, 2007, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
    
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact:
Lori Owen Xilinx, Inc.
(408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
-- Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced net revenues of $445.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, up 1% sequentially from the prior quarter and down 7% compared to the same quarter a year ago. First quarter net income was $84.3 million, or $0.28 per diluted share.
SAN JOSE, CA, JULY 19, 2007
The Xilinx Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.12 per outstanding share of common stock, payable on September 5, 2007 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on August 15, 2007.
Additional first quarter comparisons are represented in the chart below:
GAAP Results
(In millions, except EPS)
Sales from all geographies were in line with expectations with the exception of Europe. Weaker than anticipated European sales were driven primarily by customers in the Industrial and Data Processing Categories. Sales from Asia Pacific reached a record 29% of total sales, driven primarily by sales to communications customers in the region. New Product sales, which were slow in the prior quarter, increased 17% sequentially and represented 28% of total sales, up from 24% in the prior quarter. Sales from the Company's Virtex-5 FPGAs posted the strongest growth within this category.
"While sales growth was slightly lower than originally anticipated, I am pleased with our progress during the quarter in the areas of expense reduction and inventory management," said Wim Roelandts, Xilinx chief executive officer. "Expense controls contributed in part to an operating margin of 22% for the quarter, up from 18% in the prior quarter. Xilinx inventory days decreased 16 days to 79 days--the lowest level in over three years and a direct result of focused supply chain management."
Business Review  June Quarter Fiscal 2008
Total inventory days at Xilinx and distribution were 101 days, down from 120 days last quarter.  
Accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 43, up from 37 in the prior quarter.  
Capital expenditures and depreciation were $16 million and $12 million, respectively.
*Products are classified as follows:
New Products: Virtex-5, Virtex-4, Spartan-3, and CoolRunner II products
-
Mainstream Products: Virtex-II, Spartan-II, CoolRunner and Virtex-E products
Base Products: Virtex, Spartan, XC4000 and XC9500 products
Support Products: Configuration solutions, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
Highlights June Quarter Fiscal 2008:
Xilinx continued to strengthen its 65-nm leadership and is now shipping on schedule all Virtex-5 LX, LXT and SXT devices. Additionally, Xilinx has produced working silicon for its FXT product, expected to be introduced later this fiscal year.  
 
Xilinx began shipping the low-cost Spartan-DSP series targeting applications such as video surveillance and wireless. This family offers lower power and higher performance at the lowest cost points in the FPGA industry versus competing DSP solutions.
The Company recently introduced Integrated Software Environment (ISE) WebPACK 9.2i which offers software support for the Company's Virtex-5 FPGAs in addition to the latest Spartan-3A DSP platform FPGA. Also, following the successful launch of the PCI Express solution kit last quarter, Xilinx introduced two additional solution kits for gigabit Ethernet applications and memory interfaces. Solution kits simplify and accelerate broad adoption of advanced technologies by mainstream PLD designers.
Business Outlook  September Quarter Fiscal 2008
 
Revenues are expected to be flat to down slightly sequentially.
 
Gross margin is expected to be between 62% and 63%.
 
Operating expenses are expected to be up approximately 2% sequentially.
 
Other income including interest expense is expected to be approximately $16 million.
 
Tax rate is expected to be approximately 21%.
Fully diluted share count is expected to be approximately flat at 303 million shares.
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar words. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including the general health of global economies as well as of the semiconductor industry, the health of our end markets and our customers' customers, our ability to forecast end customer demand, customer acceptance of our new products, the ability of our customers to manage their inventories, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, our ability to successfully manage production at multiple foundries, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Form 10-K.
About Xilinx
.
Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) is the worldwide leader of programmable logic solutions. Additional information about Xilinx is available at http://www.xilinx.com
30 #0790
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share amounts)
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
      (1) Derived from audited financial statements
XILINX,
INC.
SUPPLEMENTAL
FINANCIAL
INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
(In
thousands)


