FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20080716161955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 16, 2008, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended June 28, 2008. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
    
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Record sales of $488.2 million in fiscal Q1
Gross margin of 63.8%
Industrial and Other sales reach record level
SAN JOSE, CA, JULY 16, 2008
-- Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced record net revenues of $488.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, up 3% sequentially from the prior quarter and up 9% compared to the same quarter a year ago. First quarter net income was $83.9 million, or $0.30 per diluted share, including previously announced pre-tax restructuring charges of $19.5 million as well as a pre-tax charge of $4.6 million related to impairment losses on equity investments. Collectively these charges totaled $24.1 million, or approximately $0.07 per diluted share.
The Xilinx Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.14 per outstanding share of common stock, payable on August 27, 2008 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on August 6, 2008.
Additional first quarter comparisons are represented in the charts below:
GAAP Results
(In millions, except EPS)
Sales from New Products increased 15% sequentially in the June quarter representing 42% of total sales, up from 28% in the same quarter a year ago. Virtex-4 FPGA sales were particularly strong during the quarter driven by applications in the communications, defense and medical end markets.
Sales from the Asia Pacific region increased 15% sequentially in the June quarter reaching a record 32% of total sales, up from 29% in the same quarter a year ago. Strong sales growth was driven primarily by communications customers within the region as well as US-based communications customers with manufacturing operations in Asia Pacific.
"We reported a solid quarter in spite of macroeconomic headwinds," said Moshe Gavrielov, Xilinx President and Chief Executive Officer. "In addition to achieving record sales in the June quarter, our gross margin continued to improve due to disciplined efforts in the areas of yield improvement and cost reduction. Gross margin in the June quarter was 63.8%, up from 63.4% in the prior quarter and up from 62.2% in the same quarter a year ago."
Net Revenues by Geography:
Net Revenues by End Market:
Net Revenues by Product*:
*Products are classified as follows:
New Products: Virtex-5, Virtex-4, Spartan-3, and CoolRunner-II products Mainstream Products: Virtex-II, Spartan-II, CoolRunner and Virtex-E products Base Products: Virtex, Spartan, XC4000 and XC9500 products Support Products: Configuration solutions, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
Highlights  June Quarter Fiscal 2009
Key Statistics:
*Return on equity calculation: Annualized net income/average stockholders' equity
Business Outlook  September Quarter Fiscal 2009
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "expect," "may," "will," "could," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar words. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including the general health of global economies as well as of the semiconductor industry, the health of our end markets and our customers' customers, our ability to forecast end customer demand, customer acceptance of our new products, the ability of our customers to manage their inventories, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, our ability to successfully manage production at multiple foundries, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Form 10-K.
About Xilinx
Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) is the worldwide leader of programmable logic solutions. Additional information about Xilinx is available at http://www.xilinx.com. Xilinx, the Xilinx logo, Virtex, Spartan, ISE, and other brands designated herein are trademarks of Xilinx in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share amounts)
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
    
(1) Derived from audited financial statements
XILINX,
INC.
SUPPLEMENTAL
FINANCIAL
INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
(In
thousands)


