FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20090114162033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 14, 2009, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended December 27, 2008. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
    
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Operating margin of 26.1% is highest reported in three years
Virtex-5 sales post strong growth
SAN JOSE, CA, JANUARY 14, 2009
-- Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced net revenues of $458.4 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, down 5% sequentially from the prior quarter and down 3% compared to the same quarter a year ago. Third quarter net income was $139.4 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, including an $89.7 million pre-tax gain on the early extinguishment of convertible debentures and a $19.5 million pre-tax impairment charge on investments. Collectively, these income and expense items represented approximately $0.19 per diluted share after tax.
The Xilinx Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.14 per outstanding share of common stock, payable on February 25, 2009 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on February 4, 2009.
Additional third quarter comparisons are represented in the charts below:
GAAP Results
(In millions, except EPS)
Sales in the month of December were particularly weak as the current economic recessionary environment began impacting customers in most Xilinx end markets. With the exception of sales to Industrial and Other which were flat, sales to other end markets declined sequentially in the December quarter.
Continued cost reduction efforts contributed to improved gross and operating margins during the quarter. Operating margin of 26.1% was up from 24.3% in the same quarter of the prior year and the highest reported in over three years. Gross margin of 63.9% was up from 63.3% in the same quarter of the prior year and the highest reported in over four years.
"Sales from the Company's flagship Virtex-5 family posted exceptionally strong growth in the December quarter increasing 35% sequentially and representing 15% of total sales, up from 10% in the prior quarter." said Moshe Gavrielov, Xilinx President and Chief Executive Officer. "The success of this product family in today's challenging economic environment underscores a growing affinity for programmable solutions versus ASIC alternatives. Programmable solutions provide customers with lower risk, greater flexibility and, in many cases, lower total overall cost."
*Products are classified as follows:
New Products: Virtex-5, Virtex-4, Spartan-3, and CoolRunner-II products Mainstream Products: Virtex-II, Spartan-II, CoolRunner and Virtex-E products Base Products: Virtex, Spartan, XC4000 and XC9500 products Support Products: Configuration solutions, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
Highlights  December Quarter Fiscal 2009
For the second consecutive quarter, sales to customers in wireless communications were particularly strong, increasing over 10% sequentially. Most of this growth was attributable to the next generation rollout of wireless technologies in China. Xilinx FPGA solutions, most notably Virtex-5 FPGAs, are key beneficiaries of this next generation wireless technology rollout due to their high performance, functionality and system integration capabilities.
Xilinx continues to have one of the most stable and resilient business models in the technology industry in terms of profitability and cash flow generation. In the December quarter, Xilinx generated $128.5 million in operating cash flow and paid $146.3 million in cash to repurchase $241.1 million (principal amount) of convertible debentures and $38.4 million in cash dividends. Xilinx currently has among the highest dividend yields in the technology industry.
     *Return on equity calculation: Annualized net income/average stockholders' equity
Business Outlook  March Quarter Fiscal 2009
Sales are expected to be down 15% to 25% sequentially.
Gross margin is expected to be in the range of 61% to 63%.
Operating expenses are expected to be flat to slightly down sequentially from the December quarter.
Interest and other is expected to be a net expense of $3 million.
Fully diluted share count is expected to be approximately 275 million shares.
March quarter tax rate is expected to be approximately 21%.
Conference Call
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's outlook for the March quarter. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at www.investor.xilinx.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (800) 642-1687 and referencing confirmation code 76849026. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Business Update - March Quarter Fiscal 2009
The Company expects to issue a fourth quarter business update press release before the market opens on Tuesday, March 3, 2009. Financial guidance to the investment community will be limited to the points mentioned in the business update document. Please sign up for a push email alert, which is available from our investor relations web site at www.investor.xilinx.com.
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "expect," "may," "will," "could," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar words. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including the general health of global economies as well as of the semiconductor industry, the health of our end markets and our customers' customers, our ability to forecast end customer demand, customer acceptance of our new products, the ability of our customers to manage their inventories, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, our ability to successfully manage production at multiple foundries, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
About Xilinx
Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) is the worldwide leader of programmable logic solutions. Additional information about Xilinx is available at http://www.xilinx.com. Xilinx, the Xilinx logo, Virtex, Spartan, ISE, and other brands designated herein are trademarks of Xilinx in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share amounts)
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
(1) Derived from audited financial statements
    
XILINX,
INC.
SUPPLEMENTAL
FINANCIAL
INFORMATION (Unaudited)
(In
thousands)


