FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20100120165843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On January 20, 2010, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended January 2, 2010. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
    
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
SAN JOSE, CA, JANUARY 20, 2010
-- Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced record third quarter fiscal 2010 sales of $513.3 million, up 24% sequentially and up 12% from the third quarter of the prior fiscal year. Third quarter net income was $106.9 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, including previously announced restructuring charges totaling $5.5 million, or approximately $0.02 per diluted share. On a year over year basis, third quarter net income and diluted earnings per share declined because in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 there was a $58.3 million pre-tax gain from the early extinguishment of convertible debentures, partially
offset by a $19.5 million pre-tax impairment charge on investments.
 
The Xilinx Board of Directors announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per outstanding share of common stock, payable on March 3, 2010 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on February 10, 2010.
 
Additional third quarter comparisons are represented in the charts below:
 
GAAP Results
(In millions, except EPS)
 
Record sales were driven by strength from all end markets and geographic regions. New Product sales increased 32% sequentially during the quarter due primarily to strong growth from the Virtex-5 and Spartan-3 FPGA families.
 
It was a record-setting quarter for Xilinx, said Moshe Gavrielov, Xilinx President and Chief Executive Officer. In addition to record total sales, Xilinxs Virtex-5 family comfortably surpassed $100 million in quarterly salesmore than any other FPGA product in history. Sales strength from this family was driven by Communications, Industrial and Other and Data Processing. Based on new design win activity, I am confident about the prospects for continued sales growth from the Virtex-5 family.
 
Products are classified as follows:
 
New Products: Virtex-6, Virtex-5, Spartan-6, Spartan-3A and Spartan-3E product families Mainstream Products: Virtex-4, Spartan-3, Spartan-II and CoolRunner-II product families
Base Products: Virtex, Virtex-E, Virtex-II, Spartan, XC4000, CoolRunner and XC9500 product families Support Products: Configuration products, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
 
Key Statistics:
(Dollars in millions)
 
*     Return on equity calculation: Annualized net income/average stockholders equity
 
 
Product and Financial Highlights
 
 
Business Outlook  March Quarter Fiscal 2010
 
 
Conference Call
 
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's outlook for the March quarter. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at www.investor.xilinx.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (800) 642-1687 and referencing confirmation code 47787165. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
 
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as expect, may, will, could, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project or other similar words. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including the general health of global economies as well as of the semiconductor industry, the health of our end markets and our customers' customers, the ability of our foundry suppliers to deliver sufficient wafer volumes in a timely manner, our ability to forecast end customer demand, customer acceptance of our new products, the ability of the Company to generate cost and operating expense savings in an efficient and timely fashion, the ability of our customers to manage their inventories, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, our ability to successfully manage production at multiple foundries, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
 
About Xilinx
 
Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) is the worldwide leader of programmable logic solutions. Additional information about Xilinx is available at http://www.xilinx.com. Xilinx, the Xilinx logo, Virtex, Spartan, ISE, and other brands designated herein are trademarks of Xilinx in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
#1004F
 
 
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
XILINX,
INC.
SUPPLEMENTAL
FINANCIAL
INFORMATION (Unaudited)
(In
thousands)
 


