FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20100721162027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 21, 2010, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 2010. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact: Lori Owen Xilinx, Inc. (408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
 Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced first quarter fiscal 2011 sales of $594.7 million, up 12% sequentially and up 58% from the first quarter of the prior fiscal year. First quarter fiscal 2011 net income was $158.6 million, or $0.58 per diluted share.
SAN JOSE, CA, JULY 21, 2010
The Xilinx Board of Directors announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per outstanding share of common stock, payable on September 1, 2010 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on August 11, 2010.
Additional first quarter comparisons are represented in the charts below:
(In millions, except EPS)
GAAP Results
The June quarter marked the third consecutive quarter of record sales for Xilinx. New Product sales were led by strong growth from the Virtex-6 and Virtex-5 FPGA families. These product families are experiencing success in a wide variety of applications including Long Term Evolution (LTE) wireless networks, next generation broadcast video-on-demand systems, high performance computer systems and high resolution imaging systems.
"It was an exceptional quarter on a number of fronts," said Moshe Gavrielov, Xilinx President and Chief Executive Officer. "In addition to record sales, operating income increased 33% sequentially to $208 million, a new milestone for Xilinx. Operating margin of 35% in the June quarter is up from 30% in the prior quarter and up from 15% in the same quarter a year ago. Our improved profitability is a result of robust sales in addition to continued fiscal discipline." Gavrielov continued, "I believe Xilinx is embarking upon an extraordinary new product cycle enabled by the strong design win momentum from our Virtex-6 and Spartan-6 families as well as the recent announcement of our 7 series FPGAs."
 
Net Revenues by Geography:
Net Revenues by End Market:
Net Revenues by Product:
Products are classified as follows:
New Products: Virtex-6, Virtex-5, Spartan-6, Spartan-3A and Spartan-3E product families Mainstream Products: Virtex-4, Spartan-3, Spartan-II and CoolRunner-II product families Base Products: Virtex, Virtex-E, Virtex-II, Spartan, XC4000, CoolRunner and XC9500 product families Support Products: Configuration products, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
Key Statistics:
(Dollars in millions)
 
Highlights  First Quarter Fiscal 2011
Conference Call
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the first quarter financial results and management's outlook for the September quarter. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the Company's web site at www.investor.xilinx.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (800) 642-1687 and referencing confirmation code 81542321. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "will," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar expressions to identify such forward-looking statements that include, but are not limited to, statements related to the semiconductor market, the growth and acceptance of our programmable platforms, expected revenue growth, the demand and growth in the markets we serve, opportunity for expansion into new markets, and our expectations regarding our business outlook for the September quarter for fiscal 2011. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including customer acceptance of our new products, the ability of our foundry suppliers to deliver sufficient wafer volumes in a timely manner, the general health of global economies as well as of the semiconductor industry, the health of our end markets and our customers' customers, our ability to forecast end customer demand, the ability of the Company to generate cost and operating expense savings in an efficient and timely fashion, the ability of our customers to manage their inventories, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, our ability to successfully manage production at multiple foundries, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Form 10-K.
About Xilinx
Xilinx is the world's leading provider of programmable platforms. For more information, visit .
www.xilinx.com
Xilinx, the Xilinx logo, Virtex, Spartan, ISE, and other brands designated herein are trademarks of Xilinx in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
#10XXF
 
XILINX, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
XILINX, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
XILINX, INC.
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
(In thousands)


