FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20110427162042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 27, 2011, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2011. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact: Lori Owen Xilinx, Inc. (408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
 Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced record fiscal 2011 sales of $2.37 billion, up 29% from the prior fiscal year. Fiscal 2011 net income increased 80% to of $641.9 million, or $2.39 per diluted share, versus fiscal 2010 net income of $357.5 million or $1.29 per diluted share.
SAN JOSE, CA, April 27, 2011
Fourth quarter fiscal 2011 sales were $587.9 million, up 4% sequentially and up 11% from the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. Fourth quarter fiscal 2011 net income was $160.1 million, or $0.59 per diluted share.
Additional fourth quarter comparisons are represented in the charts below:
(In millions, except EPS)
GAAP Results
"I am very pleased with our fiscal 2011 results. Record sales and continued fiscal discipline contributed to significant improvements in our profitability. Gross and operating margins were a record 65.4% and 33.6%, respectively, in fiscal 2011. This is up from 63.4% and 23.6%, respectively, in the prior fiscal year," said Moshe Gavrielov, Xilinx President and Chief Executive Officer. "In fiscal 2012, we will continue to demonstrate clear 28-nm technology leadership with our game changing product strategy. Xilinx was the first PLD company to tape out 28-nm product, the first to deliver 28-nm silicon to customers, and the first and only company to demonstrate working 28-nm silicon at the recent NAB Conference and Globalpress Electronics Summit. We have already taped out three 28-nm FPGAs thus far and we continue to expect the product rollout at this technology node to be the fastest in our history."
 
Net Revenues by Geography:
Net Revenues by End Market:
Net Revenues by Product:
Products are classified as follows:
New Products: Virtex-6, Virtex-5, Spartan-6, Spartan-3A and Spartan-3E product families
Mainstream Products: Virtex-4, Spartan-3, Spartan-II and CoolRunner-II product families
Base Products: Virtex, Virtex-E, Virtex-II, Spartan, XC4000, CoolRunner and XC9500 product families
Support Products: Configuration products, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
Key Statistics: (Dollars in millions)
 
Product and Financial Highlights  Fiscal 2011
Conference Call
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the fourth quarter financial results and management's outlook for the June quarter. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the Company's web site at www.investor.xilinx.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (800) 642-1687 and referencing confirmation code 57880006. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "will," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar expressions to identify such forward-looking statements that include, but are not limited to, statements related to the semiconductor market, the growth and acceptance of our programmable platforms, expected revenue growth, the demand and growth in the markets we serve, opportunity for expansion into new markets, and our expectations regarding our business outlook for the June quarter for fiscal 2012. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including customer acceptance of our new products, current global economic conditions, the health of our customers and the end markets in which they participate, our ability to forecast end customer demand, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, our ability to successfully manage production at multiple foundries, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Forms 10-Q and 10-K.
About Xilinx
Xilinx is the world's leading provider of programmable platforms. For more information, visit .
www.xilinx.com
Xilinx, the Xilinx logo, Virtex, Spartan, ISE, and other brands designated herein are trademarks of Xilinx in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
#1127F
 
XILINX, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
XILINX, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
XILINX, INC. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) (In thousands)


