FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20110720162033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On July 20, 2011, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended July 2, 2011. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact: Lori Owen Xilinx, Inc. (408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
 Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced first quarter fiscal 2012 sales of $615.5 million, up 5% sequentially from the prior quarter and up 3% from the same quarter of the prior year. First quarter net income was $154.4 million, or $0.56 per diluted share.
SAN JOSE, CA, July 20, 2011
The Xilinx Board of Directors announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per outstanding share of common stock, payable on August 31, 2011 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on August 10, 2011.
Additional first quarter comparisons are represented in the charts below:
(In millions, except EPS)
GAAP Results
"Sales in the June quarter exceeded our expectations," said Moshe Gavrielov, Xilinx President and Chief Executive Officer. "New product sales were exceptionally strong increasing 17% sequentially. Much of this growth came from strong customer demand for our 40-nm Virtex-6 and Spartan-6 families as well as our 65-nm Virtex-5 family. In addition, we continued to demonstrate our 28-nm technology leadership by shipping our second FPGA family, Virtex-7, during the quarter. With the industry's highest performance, density and bandwidth, Virtex-7 FPGAs achieved design wins in a broad base of applications including wired and wireless communications, broadcast infrastructure, aerospace and defense and high performance computing."
 
Net Revenues by Geography:
Net Revenues by End Market:
Net Revenues by Product:
Products are classified as follows:
New Products: Virtex-6, Virtex-5, Spartan-6, Spartan-3A and Spartan-3E product families Mainstream Products: Virtex-4, Spartan-3, Spartan-II and CoolRunner-II product families Base Products: Virtex, Virtex-E, Virtex-II, Spartan, XC4000, CoolRunner and XC9500 product families Support Products: Configuration products, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
Key Statistics: (Dollars in millions)
 
Product Highlights
Business Outlook  September Quarter Fiscal 2012
Conference Call
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the first quarter financial results and management's outlook for the September quarter. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the Company's web site at www.investor.xilinx.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (800) 642-1687 and referencing confirmation code 57880006. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "will," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar expressions. Statements that refer to or are based on projections, uncertain events or assumptions also identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements that include, but are not limited to, statements related to the semiconductor market, the growth and acceptance of our programmable platforms, expected revenue growth, the demand and growth in the markets we serve, opportunity for expansion into new markets, and our expectations regarding our business outlook for the September quarter for fiscal 2012. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Actual events and
 
results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including customer acceptance of our new products, current global economic conditions, the health of our customers and the end markets in which they participate, our ability to forecast end customer demand, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Form 10-K.
About Xilinx
Xilinx is the world's leading provider of programmable platforms. For more information, visit .
www.xilinx.com
Xilinx, the Xilinx logo, Virtex, Spartan, ISE, and other brands designated herein are trademarks of Xilinx in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
#1152F
 
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
XILINX, INC. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) (In thousands)


