FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20111019162025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 19, 2011, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended October 1, 2011. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact: Lori Owen Xilinx, Inc. (408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
 Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced second quarter fiscal 2012 sales of $555.2 million, down 10% sequentially from the prior quarter and down 10% from the same quarter of the prior year. Second quarter net income was $126.3 million, or $0.47 per diluted share.
SAN JOSE, CA, October 19, 2011
The Xilinx Board of Directors announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per outstanding share of common stock, payable on November 30, 2011 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on November 9, 2011.
Additional second quarter comparisons are represented in the charts below:
(In millions, except EPS)
GAAP Results
"Sales growth during the September quarter was impacted by weaker than expected business conditions particularly in the Communications and Industrial and Other categories. In spite of declining sales, operating margin for the quarter was 28% as a result of higher-than-expected gross margin and a commensurate slow down of spending in recognition of the environment," said Moshe Gavrielov, Xilinx President and Chief Executive Officer. "Additionally, we continued to demonstrate leadership on the 28-nm node by recently taping out our sixth device, achieving to date over 200 design wins, and shipping parts to 50 discrete customers."
 
Net Revenues by Geography:
Net Revenues by End Market:
Net Revenues by Product:
Products are classified as follows:
New Products: Virtex-7, Kintex-7, Virtex-6, Virtex-5, Spartan-6, Spartan-3A and Spartan-3E product families
Mainstream Products: Virtex-4, Spartan-3, Spartan-II and CoolRunner-II product families
Base Products: Virtex, Virtex-E, Virtex-II, Spartan, XC4000, CoolRunner and XC9500 product families
Support Products: Configuration products, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
Key Statistics:
(Dollars in millions)
 
Product Highlights
Xilinx continued to pioneer programmable systems integration leadership during the quarter achieving a number of key milestones:
 
Conference Call
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the second quarter financial results and management's outlook for the December quarter. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the Company's web site at www.investor.xilinx.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (855) 859-2056 and referencing confirmation code 12324688. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "will," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar expressions. Statements that refer to or are based on projections, uncertain events or assumptions also identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the semiconductor market, the growth and acceptance of our programmable platforms, expected revenue growth, the demand and growth in the markets we serve, opportunity for expansion into new markets, and our expectations regarding our business outlook for the December quarter for fiscal 2012. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including customer acceptance of our new products, current global economic conditions, the health of our customers and the end markets in which they participate, our ability to forecast end customer demand, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
About Xilinx
Xilinx is the world's leading provider of programmable platforms. For more information, visit .
www.xilinx.com
Xilinx, the Xilinx logo, Virtex, Spartan, ISE, and other brands designated herein are trademarks of Xilinx in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. #1163F
 
XILINX, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
XILINX, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
XILINX, INC. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) (In thousands)


