FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20110314080102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
.
On March 14, 2011, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing an increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.16 to $0.19 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2012, payable on June 8, 2011, and announcing a business update for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits:
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  
 

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact: Lori Owen Xilinx, Inc. (408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
 Xilinx, Inc. (NASDAQ: XLNX) today announced that its Board of Directors has increased the quarterly cash dividend from $0.16 to $0.19 per outstanding share of common stock, payable on June 8, 2011 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on May 18, 2011. "The increase in our quarterly dividend reflects our strong and consistent operating cash flow as well as our commitment to returning shareholder value," said Moshe Gavrielov, Xilinx President and Chief Executive Officer.
SAN JOSE, CA, March 14, 2011
Xilinx also reiterated its sales guidance for the March quarter of fiscal 2011. March quarter sales are expected to be flat to up 5% sequentially, consistent with the Company's previous guidance. This guidance assumes that the Company's shipments to customers in Japan are not affected by the recent events there. The Company is still in the process of assessing the situation in Japan.
No conference call will be held in conjunction with this business update. Additional commentary pertaining to the March quarter will be available when the Company reports its March quarter financial results on April 27, 2011.
The Company will be hosting its Annual Analyst Meeting in New York City today. Additional details pertaining to this event as well as access to the live webcast are available from the investor relations website at http://investor.xilinx.com.
To receive Xilinx press releases automatically via email, please sign up for a push email alert, which is available from our investor relations website at http://investor.xilinx.com.
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "will," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar expressions to identify such forward-looking statements that include, but are not limited to, statements related to the semiconductor market, the growth and acceptance of our programmable platforms, expected revenue growth, the demand and growth in the markets we serve, opportunity for expansion into new markets, and our expectations regarding our business outlook for the March quarter for fiscal 2011. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including customer acceptance of our new products, current global economic conditions, acquisition-related expenses, the health of our customers and the end markets in which they participate, our ability to forecast end customer demand, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, our ability to successfully manage production at multiple foundries, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Forms 10-Q and 10-K.
About Xilinx
Xilinx is the world's leading provider of programmable platforms. For more information, visit http://www.xilinx.com.
Xilinx, the Xilinx logo, Virtex, Spartan, ISE, and other brands designated herein are trademarks of Xilinx in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
#1116F


