FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20120425162100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 25, 2012, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact:
Lori Owen
Xilinx, Inc.
(408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
 Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced fourth quarter fiscal 2012 sales of $559.0 million, up 9% sequentially and down 5% from the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. Fourth quarter fiscal 2012 net income was $134.1 million, or $0.49 per diluted share.
SAN JOSE, CA, April 25, 2012
Fiscal 2012 sales were $2.24 billion, down 5% from the prior fiscal year. Fiscal 2012 net income decreased 16% to $541.8 million, or $1.99 per diluted share, versus fiscal 2011 net income of $641.9 million or $2.39 per diluted share.
Additional fourth quarter comparisons are represented in the charts below:
GAAP Results
(In millions, except EPS)
 
 
"Fiscal 2012 was highlighted by robust growth from our 40-nm product families and an aggressive introduction of our 28-nm product families. Design win momentum for these product families continues to be strong, giving me confidence that Xilinx will continue to gain PLD share in the new fiscal year," said Moshe Gavrielov, Xilinx President and Chief Executive Officer. "Additionally, the Company's cost reduction efforts and operating efficiencies contributed to consecutive quarterly gross margin improvement during the year and a record gross margin of 66.4% in the recently ended March quarter."
Net Revenues by Geography:
 
Net Revenues by End Market:
 
Net Revenues by Product:
 
Products are classified as follows:
New Products: Virtex-7, Kintex-7, Zynq-7000, Virtex-6, Virtex-5, Spartan-6, Spartan-3A and Spartan-3E products
Mainstream Products: Virtex-4, Spartan-3, Spartan-II and CoolRunner-II products
Base Products: Virtex, Virtex-E, Virtex-II, Spartan, XC4000, CoolRunner and XC9500 products
Support Products: Configuration products, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
Key Statistics:
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Product and Financial Highlights  Fiscal 2012
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook  June Quarter Fiscal 2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the fourth quarter financial results and management's outlook for the June quarter. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the Company's web site at www.investor.xilinx.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (855) 859-2056 and referencing confirmation code 70310997. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "will," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar expressions. Statements that refer to or are based on projections, uncertain events or assumptions also identify forward-looking statements. Such forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the semiconductor market, the growth and acceptance of our programmable platforms, expected revenue growth, the demand and growth in the markets we serve, opportunity for expansion into new markets, and our expectations regarding our business outlook for the June quarter for fiscal 2013. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including customer acceptance of our new products, current global economic conditions, the health of our customers and the end markets in which they participate, our ability to forecast end customer demand, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, our ability to successfully manage production at multiple foundries, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Forms 10-Q and 10-K.
About Xilinx
About Xilinx
Xilinx develops All Programmable technologies and devices, beyond hardware to software, digital to analog, and single to multiple die in 3D ICs. These industry leading devices are coupled with a next-generation design environment and IP to serve a broad range of customer needs, from programmable logic to programmable systems integration. For more information visit www.xilinx.com.
#1237F
Xilinx, the Xilinx logo, Artix, ISE, Kintex, Spartan, Virtex, Zynq, Vivado, and other designated brands included herein are trademarks of Xilinx in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
 
XILINX, INC.
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
(In thousands)
 


