FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20120313080104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
.
On March 13, 2012, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing an increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.19 to $0.22 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2013, payable on June 6, 2012. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits:
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact:
Lori Owen
Xilinx, Inc.
(408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
 Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.22 per outstanding share of common stock, an increase from the dividend of $0.19 per outstanding share of common stock paid in each of the immediately preceding four quarters. The quarterly dividend will be payable on June 6, 2012 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on May 16, 2012. "The increase in our quarterly dividend reflects our continued confidence in our business model as well as our commitment to returning shareholder value," said Moshe Gavrielov, Xilinx President and Chief Executive Officer.
SAN JOSE, CA, March 13, 2012
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "will," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar expressions. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including customer acceptance of our new products, current global economic conditions, the health of our customers and the end markets in which they participate, our ability to consistently generate healthy cash flows and other risk factors listed in our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
About Xilinx
Xilinx is the world's leading provider of programmable platforms. For more information, visit .
www.xilinx.com
Xilinx, the Xilinx logo, Artix, ISE, Kintex, Spartan, Virtex, Zynq and other designated brands included herein are trademarks of Xilinx in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
#1228F


