FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20120718162615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): July 18, 2012
 
XILINX, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (408) 559-7778
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 18, 2012, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2012. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact:
Lori Owen
Xilinx, Inc.
(408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
XILINX ANNOUNCES Q1 FISCAL 2013 RESULTS;
Q1 SALES INCREASE 4% SEQUENTIALLY
SAN JOSE, CA, July 18, 2012
-- Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced first quarter fiscal 2013 sales of $582.8 million, up 4% sequentially and down 5% from the first quarter of the prior fiscal year. First quarter fiscal 2013 net income was $129.8 million, or $0.47 per diluted share.
The Xilinx Board of Directors announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.22 per outstanding share of common stock,
payable on August 29, 2012 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on August 8, 2012.
Additional first quarter comparisons are represented in the charts below:
GAAP Results
(In millions, except EPS)
 
Sales from our 28-nm products are off to an excellent start, as we are realizing the advantages of our breakout portfolio that now includes not only FPGAs but our pioneering All Programmable 3DICs and SoCs. In the June quarter, sales from these products, including Virtex-7 and Kintex-7 FPGAs, Virtex-7 3D IC, and Zynq-7000 SoC products, increased significantly, passing our $10 million milestone. We continue to expect the 28-nm node to be Xilinx's most successful ever, said Moshe Gavrielov, Xilinx President and Chief Executive Officer. In addition, gross margin remained very healthy during the quarter at 66.0%. This was at the high end of our forecast due primarily to a continued focus by the Company on yield improvement and cost reduction.
Net Revenues by Geography:
Note:
The end market categories have been restated to reflect the reclassification of Data Center customers into the Communications category. End market categories have also been renamed to be more descriptive and to better reflect actual composition of sales. Additionally, the product categories represented below have been modified to make categories more meaningful given new product introductions and maturing of products. For comparative purposes, we have provided supplemental information on our website at www.investor.xilinx.com that presents results based on previous classifications.
Net Revenues by End Market:
 
Net Revenues by Product:
 
Products are classified as follows:
New products:
Virtex7, Kintex7, Zynq-7000, Virtex6, Spartan6, products
Mainstream products:
Virtex5, Spartan3 and CoolRunner(TM)II products
Base products:
Virtex4, VirtexII, VirtexE, Virtex, Spartan-II, Spartan, CoolRunner and XC9500 products
Support products:
Configuration solutions, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
Key Statistics:
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
Highlights - June Quarter Fiscal 2013
Business Outlook - September Quarter Fiscal 2013
Sales are expected to be down 4% to 8% sequentially.
Other income and expense is expected to be an expense of approximately $8 million.
Fully diluted share count is expected to be approximately 274 million.
Conference Call
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the first quarter financial results and management's outlook for the September quarter. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the Company's web site at www.investor.xilinx.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (855) 859-2056 and referencing confirmation code 94512167. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as expect, believe, may, will, could, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project or other similar expressions. Statements that refer to or are based on projections, uncertain events or assumptions also identify forward-looking statements. Such forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the semiconductor market, the growth and acceptance of our programmable platforms, expected revenue growth, the demand and growth in the markets we serve, opportunity for expansion into new markets, and our expectations regarding our business outlook for the September quarter for fiscal 2013. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including customer acceptance of our new products, current global economic conditions, the health of our customers and the end markets in which they participate, our ability to forecast end customer demand, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, our ability to successfully manage production at multiple foundries, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Form 10-K.
About Xilinx
Xilinx develops All Programmable technologies and devices, beyond hardware to software, digital to analog, and single to multiple die in 3D ICs.  These industry leading devices are coupled with a next-generation design environment and IP to serve a broad range of customer needs, from programmable logic to programmable systems integration.  For more information visit www.xilinx.com.
#1256F
Xilinx, the Xilinx logo, Artix, ISE, Kintex, Spartan, Virtex, Zynq, Vivado, and other designated brands included herein are trademarks of Xilinx in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
XLNX-F
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
XILINX, INC.
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
(In thousands)


