FILE:XLNX/XLNX-8K-20120118162101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 18, 2012, Xilinx, Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact:
Lori Owen
Xilinx, Inc.
(408) 879-6911
ir@xilinx.com
 Xilinx, Inc. (Nasdaq: XLNX) today announced third quarter fiscal 2012 sales of $511.1 million, down 8 percent sequentially from the prior quarter and down 10 percent from the same quarter of the prior year. Third quarter net income was $127.0 million, or $0.47 per diluted share. Included in the third quarter net income was a tax benefit of $15.3 million, or $0.06 per diluted share, related to one-time items including the lapse of the statute of limitations with respect to certain previously unrecognized tax positions.
SAN JOSE, CA, January 18, 2012
The Xilinx Board of Directors announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per outstanding share of common stock, payable on February 29, 2012 to all stockholders of record at the close of business on February 8, 2012.
Additional third quarter comparisons are represented in the charts below:
GAAP Results
(In millions, except EPS)
 
Xilinx's sales declined 8 percent sequentially during the December quarter, impacted by particularly weak business from large communications customers. The Company's profitability as measured by gross margin and cash flow remained robust. December quarter gross margin was 65.8 percent and operating cash flow for the quarter was $181.0 million. Operating cash flow for calendar year 2011 was $863.2 million, a new Company record. "We experienced strong growth in our Virtex-6 and Spartan-6 product families and achieved significant milestones in our 28-nm rollout, in spite of challenging industry conditions. During the quarter, we commenced shipments of the PLD industry's first Stacked Silicon Interconnect (SSI) product as well as the industry's first embedded systems platform, the Zynq-7000 product family," said Moshe Gavrielov, Xilinx President and Chief Executive Officer. "Xilinx is not only expanding its addressable market but also paving the way for the entire semiconductor industry with these innovative new offerings."
Net Revenues by Geography:
 
Net Revenues by End Market:
 
Net Revenues by Product:
 
Products are classified as follows:
New Products: Virtex-7, Kintex-7, Zynq-7000, Virtex-6, Virtex-5, Spartan-6, Spartan-3A and Spartan-3E product families
Mainstream Products: Virtex-4, Spartan-3, SpartanIIE, Spartan-II and CoolRunner-II product families
Base Products: Virtex, Virtex-E, Virtex-II, Spartan, XC4000, CoolRunner and XC9500 product families
Support Products: Configuration products, HardWire, Software & Support/Services
Key Statistics:
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Product Highlights
 
 
Business Outlook  March Quarter Fiscal 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the third quarter financial results and management's outlook for the March quarter. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the Company's web site at www.investor.xilinx.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (888) 405-4660 and referencing confirmation code 36594823. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
This release contains forward-looking statements and projections. Forward-looking statements and projections can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "will," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar expressions. Statements that refer to or are based on projections, uncertain events or assumptions also identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the semiconductor market, the growth and acceptance of our programmable platforms, expected revenue growth, the demand and growth in the markets we serve, opportunity for expansion into new markets, and our expectations regarding our business outlook for the March quarter for fiscal 2012. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements and projections, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and
 
uncertainties including customer acceptance of our new products, current global economic conditions, the health of our customers and the end markets in which they participate, our ability to forecast end customer demand, a high dependence on turns business, more customer volume discounts than expected, greater product mix changes than anticipated, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, our ability to deliver product in a timely manner, variability in wafer pricing, and other risk factors listed in our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
About Xilinx
Xilinx is the world's leading provider of programmable platforms. For more information, visit
www.xilinx.com.
Xilinx, the Xilinx logo, Artix, ISE, Kintex, Spartan, Virtex, Zynq and other designated brands included herein are trademarks of Xilinx in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
#1208F
 
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
XILINX, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
 
XILINX, INC.
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
(In thousands)
 
 


