FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20030716163624.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)
Exhibits
99
Registrant's press release dated July 16, 2003
Item 9.
Regulation FD Disclosure
        The registrant is furnishing the information required by Item 12 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," under this Item 9.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
July 16, 2003

Exhibit 99
For Immediate Release
NORTHBROOK, Ill., July 16, 2003The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) today reported for the second quarter of 2003:
 - 
Property-Liability Premiums written(1) grew 6.3% over the second quarter of 2002, with the Allstate brand standard auto and homeowners lines growing 6.9% and 12.7% respectively, reflecting our focus on profitable growth.
 - 
Allstate brand standard auto policies in force (PIF) grew 0.4% compared to the first quarter of 2003, which is its first sequential quarterly increase since the fourth quarter of 2001. Allstate brand homeowners PIF grew 0.6% compared to the first quarter of 2003 for its third consecutive quarterly increase. Retention in both lines has improved as compared to the first quarter of 2003.
 - 
Catastrophe losses in the second quarter increased significantly to $566 million compared to $288 million in the second quarter of 2002 and $133 million in the first quarter of 2003.
 - 
Property-Liability Underwriting income(1) increased $202 million in the second quarter to $181 million from an underwriting loss of $21 million in the second quarter of 2002 due to higher premiums earned, continued improvement in auto and homeowners frequencies and lower prior year reserve strengthening, partially offset by higher catastrophes and operating expenses. The combined ratio improved 3.3 points, 7.5 points before the impact of catastrophes.
 - 
Allstate increases operating income guidance for 2003 (excluding restructuring charges and assuming the level of average expected catastrophe losses used in pricing for the remainder of the year) to the range of $3.50 to $3.65 per diluted share.(1)
        "We have turned in another very solid quarter. Despite a tornado-plagued spring in many parts of the central and southern United States, our Property-Liability business generated much better than expected results," said Chairman, President and CEO Edward M. Liddy. "As anticipated, rate increases approved in previous quarters continue to flow through financial results. We will continue to be disciplined and take rate increases that support our projected loss cost trends and return targets. Just as important, we are seeing signs of positive, sustainable unit growth in both our core standard auto and homeowners
(1)
Measures used in this release that are not based on generally accepted accounting principles ("non-GAAP") are defined and reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure and operating measures are defined in the Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures section of this document.
insurance lines. We remain confident that we can grow without sacrificing profitability and that our strategy of becoming better and bigger in our core protection business and broader in our ability to provide a range of financial services to middle America continues to be the right one.
        "The policies in force growth numbers for the quarter look especially encouraging in the core lines of standard auto and homeowners. For standard auto, 35 states showed sequential increases and 32 states showed sequential increases in homeowners. We remain on track to deliver consistent sequential quarter over quarter increases for standard auto and homeowners by the end of the year. Retention of current business also showed positive gains.
        "Once again, excluding catastrophe losses, we experienced solid improvements in claim frequencies, which continue to offset relatively modest severity increases.
        "We received good news from California in the quarter as our new auto rating plan was approved by the department of insurance. This particular approval has enabled us to increase our marketing efforts in the state and we have begun writing business under the new plan.
        "It is still too early to declare victory, but our Encompass business turned in good underwriting results as compared to the second of quarter of 2002 as it works toward lowering its combined ratio. The non-standard auto business written by Deerbrook is growing and, like Encompass, is showing good underwriting results compared to the second quarter of 2002.
        "We believe we have positive momentum developing within our agency force across the country. Several initiatives are contributing to the agency force's solid performance, including a new compensation package introduced this year that was designed to better align the business objectives of the agency force with those of the company. The formation of an agent advisory council has provided a valuable forum for the company and our agency force to review together new initiatives to enhance the success of the channel. New investments in marketing, advertising, training and technology support have helped drive an increase in sales leads. These moves have enhanced the improving relationship between the company and its agency force.
        "Allstate Financial is maintaining strong levels of production and the breadth of its product offering has contributed to good results. In particular, fixed annuity sales were higher compared to the second quarter of 2002 and variable annuity and institutional sales showed a sequential increase from the first quarter of 2003. Allstate Financial operating income, compared to second quarter of 2002, declined 8.4% to $131 million as the business unit continues to be challenged by the current economic environment. Our investment portfolio yield continues to decline as premiums, deposits and investment cash flows are invested at yields that are below the current portfolio average. We have reduced crediting rates on our in-force fixed annuities to maintain investment margins. We are also making product modifications to achieve profit objectives on new business sold in this challenging economic environment.
        "As mentioned earlier, the quarter saw a large number of tornadoes with resulting damage to properties in many parts of the country. We are in the business of restoring people's lives when events like this occur, and that's what thousands of Allstate agents and claim adjusters have been doing this quarter. That is the essence of the Allstate promise to its customers
"You're in Good Hands"
SM
and we are proud of the dedicated men and women who prove it day in and day out."
Summary of Consolidated Results
 - 
Book value per diluted share increased 10.4% compared to December 31, 2002.
Property-Liability Highlights
 - 
Allstate brand standard auto and homeowners PIF increased 0.4% and 0.6%, respectively, from March 31, 2003 levels, driving the first sequential quarterly increase in standard auto PIF since the fourth quarter of 2001 and the third consecutive quarterly increase in homeowners PIF.
For Allstate brand standard auto, 35 states representing 74.1% of the PIF had positive sequential growth compared to March 31, 2003 levels. The state of Texas had positive sequential growth and the state of California showed a slowing rate of decline, while the state of Florida continued to decline during the quarter.
For Allstate brand homeowners, 32 states representing 83.3% of the PIF had positive sequential growth compared to March 31, 2003. The states of Texas, California and Florida each had positive sequential growth during the quarter.
 - 
Allstate brand has achieved targeted profitability in most states and plans to increase marketing and advertising expenditures, invest in agency productivity such as new sales and retention, while
continuing the implementation of strategic risk management practices which are proving to be working quite well.
 - 
Operating expenses increased as a result of pension expenses, employee and agent incentives and guarantee fund expenses.
 - 
Operating income reflects the positive impact of a $31 million adjustment for prior year tax liabilities.
Allstate Financial Highlights
 - 
Premiums and deposits for the second quarter of 2003 increased 32.1% over the first quarter of 2003 due to stronger sales of fixed and variable annuities and institutional products, and were comparable to the prior year second quarter. The continued roll-out of the new Allstate Advisor variable annuity and the rebound in equity markets in the second quarter of 2003 have contributed to six months of increased variable annuity sales.
 - 
Net cash payments for Allstate Financial's variable annuity guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB) were $27 million for the second quarter of 2003, net of reinsurance, hedging gains and losses, and other contractual arrangements. This is $18 million above payments made in the second quarter of 2002, and $6 million above the first quarter of 2003 payments. The increase in the second quarter of 2003 reflects the cost of hedging this exposure in a rising equity market, while net payments in prior periods were benefited by hedging.
GMDB values in excess of contractholders' account values, payable if all contractholders were to have died at June 30, 2003, were estimated to be $3.33 billion net of reinsurance, compared to $4.24 billion at March 31, 2003 and $4.07 billion at December 31, 2002.
 - 
The weighted average interest crediting rate on fixed annuity and interest-sensitive life products in force, excluding market value adjusted annuities, was approximately 100 basis points more than the underlying long term guaranteed rates on these products.
Note: Rate increases that are indicated based on a loss trend analysis to achieve a targeted return, will continue to be pursued in all locations and for all products.
Note: Other includes involuntary auto, commercial lines and other personal lines.
Note: Mold claims in the state of Texas during the second quarter of 2003 were insignificant.
Note: To conform to current period presentations, certain prior period balances have been reclassified.
        We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following non-GAAP financial measures. Our method of calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
        Operating income
is Income before dividends on preferred securities and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, after-tax, excluding the effects of Realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, and Gain on disposition of operations, after-tax. In our operating income computation, the net effect of Realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, includes Allstate Financial's DAC amortization and additional future policy benefits only to the extent that they resulted from the recognition of Realized capital gains and losses. Net income is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
        We use this measure to evaluate our results of operations and as an integral component for incentive compensation. It reveals trends in our insurance and financial services business that may be obscured by the net effect of Realized capital gains and losses and Gain on disposition of operations. These items may vary significantly between periods and are generally driven by business decisions and economic developments such as market conditions, the timing of which is unrelated to the insurance underwriting process. Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our performance. We note that the price to earnings multiple commonly used by insurance investors as a forward-looking valuation technique uses operating income as the denominator. Operating income should not be considered as a substitute for Net income and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.
        The following tables reconcile Operating income and Net income for the second quarter and first six months of 2003 and 2002.
For the three months ended June 30,
For the six months ended June 30,
        In this press release, we provide guidance on operating income per diluted share for 2003 (excluding restructuring and related charges and assuming a level of average expected catastrophe losses used in pricing for the remainder of the year). A reconciliation of this measure to Net income is not accessible on a forward-looking basis because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of Realized capital gains and losses, which can vary substantially from one period to another and may have a significant impact on Net income. Because a forecast of Realized capital gains and losses is not accessible, neither is a forecast of the effects of Realized capital gains and losses on DAC amortization, additional future policy benefits and income taxes. It is also not possible to provide a reliable forecast of restructuring and related charges. The other reconciling items between Operating income and Net income on a forward-looking basis are Gains (loss) on disposition of operations after-tax and Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle which we assume to be zero for the remainder of 2003 and Dividends on preferred securities of subsidiary trusts, which we estimate to be $0.02 per diluted share for 2003.
        Underwriting income (loss)
is Premiums earned, less Claims and claims expense ("losses"), Amortization of DAC, Operating costs and expenses and Restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP. Management uses this measure in its evaluation of results of operations to analyze the profitability of our Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results. It is also an integral component of incentive compensation. We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate the components of income separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our performance. Underwriting income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for Net income and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business. Net income is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. A reconciliation of Property-Liability Underwriting income to Net income is provided in the Segment Results table.
        Operating income return on equity
is a ratio found useful by investors that uses a non-GAAP measure. It is calculated by dividing the rolling 12-month operating income by the average of the beginning and end of the 12-month period shareholders' equity after excluding the after-tax effect of unrealized net capital gains. We use it to supplement our evaluation of net income and return on equity and because investors often use this measure when evaluating the performance of insurers. Moreover, it enhances investor understanding by eliminating the after-tax effects of realized and unrealized capital gains and losses and the cumulative effect of changes in accounting, which can fluctuate significantly. Return on Equity is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. The following table shows the two computations.
Operating Measures
        We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following operating financial measures. Our method of calculating these measures may differ from that used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
        Premiums written
is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period. Premiums earned is a GAAP measure. Premiums are considered earned and are included in financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period. The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as Unearned premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
        The following table presents a reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned.
        Premiums and deposits
is an operating measure that we use to analyze production trends for Allstate Financial sales. It includes premiums on insurance policies and annuities and all deposits and other funds received from customers on deposit-type products including the net new deposits of Allstate Bank, which we account for under GAAP as increases to liabilities rather than as revenue.
        The following table illustrates where Premiums and deposits are reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
(1)
Life and annuity contract charges in the amount of est. $236 million and $234 million for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively and est. $463 million and $464 million for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively, which are also revenues recognized for GAAP, have been excluded from the table above, but are a component of the Consolidated Statements of Operations line item Life and annuity premiums and contract charges.
        New sales of financial products by Allstate exclusive agencies
is an operating measure that we use to quantify the current year sales of financial products by the Allstate proprietary distribution channel. New sales of financial products by Allstate exclusive agencies includes annual premiums on new insurance policies, initial premiums and deposits on annuities, net new deposits in the Allstate Bank, sales of other company's mutual funds, and excludes renewal premiums. New sales of financial products by Allstate exclusive agencies for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002 totaled est. $783 million and $760 million, respectively.
        This press release contains forward-looking statements about our operating income for 2003 and increases in PIF in our Property-Liability business. These statements are subject to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons. Projected weighted average rate changes in our Property-Liability business may be lower than projected due to a decrease in PIF. Loss costs in our Property-Liability business, including losses due to catastrophes such as hurricanes and earthquakes, may exceed management's projections. Competitive pressures could lead to sales of Property-Liability products, including private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, that are lower than we have projected, due to our increased prices and our modified underwriting practices. Investment income may not meet management's projections due to poor stock market performance or lower returns on the fixed income portfolio due to worsening credit conditions. Significantly lower interest rates and equity markets could increase deferred acquisition cost amortization, reduce contract charges, investment margins and the profitability of the Allstate Financial segment. We encourage you to review the other risk factors facing Allstate that we disclosed in our Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated March 28, 2003. We undertake no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statements. This press release contains unaudited financial information.
        The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer. Widely known through the "You're In Good Hands With Allstate" slogan, Allstate provides insurance products to more than 16 million households and has approximately 12,300 exclusive agents and financial specialists in the U.S. and Canada. Customers can access Allstate products and services through Allstate agents, or in select states at allstate.com and 1-800-Allstate. Encompass and Deerbrook Insurance brand property and casualty products are sold exclusively through independent agents. Allstate Financial Group includes the businesses that provide life and supplemental insurance, retirement, banking and
SM
investment products through distribution channels that include Allstate agents, independent agents, and banks and securities firms.
        We post an interim investor supplement on our web site. You can access it by going to allstate.com and clicking on "About Allstate." From there, go to the "Find Investor Relations Information" button. We will post additional information to the supplement over the next 30 days as it becomes available.
Contact:
Michael Trevino Media Relations (847) 402-5600
Robert Block, Larry Moews, Phil Dorn Investor Relations (847) 402-2800


