FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20070418163647.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                    
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                    
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                    
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
                    
 
Section 2.  Financial Information
Item 2.02.       Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 18, 2007 the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report.
Section 9.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01.       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)      Exhibits
99       Registrant's press release dated April 18, 2007
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3

Exhibit 99
For Immediate Release
NORTHBROOK, Ill., April 18, 2007  The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) today reported for the first quarter of 2007:
 
"Allstate is off to a strong start in 2007," said Thomas J. Wilson, president and chief executive officer, The Allstate Corporation. "Our property-casualty, financial and investment operations delivered solid results, generating net income of $1.49 billion for the first quarter of 2007. Our return on equity for shareholders remained strong at 23.5 percent and book value increased 14.3 percent compared to first quarter 2006.
Consumer Focus
"Our highly successful marketing programs continue to distinguish us from our competitors and deliver quantifiable results for our auto insurance business. Allstate brand standard auto policies in force grew 2.6 percent in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the prior year and new issued applications increased 7.3 percent. Customer loyalty also remains a top priority and is the focus of several new initiatives.
Profitability
"Profitability remained strong in the first quarter of 2007," added Wilson. Operating income in the quarter was $1.2 billion compared to $1.3 billion for last year's first quarter. The Property-Liability combined ratio for the quarter was 84.6, an increase of 2.7 points compared with the first quarter of 2006, partly because of higher claim frequencies. "Winter weather in the central and northeast sections of the country partially contributed to the increase in claim frequency in standard auto property damage and in our homeowners line during the quarter. Property damage severity results in the quarter were moderate and better than we expected at the beginning of the year," continued Wilson. Catastrophe losses for the quarter were $161 million,
(1) Measures used in this release that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("non-GAAP") are defined and reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure and operating measures are defined in the "Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures" section of this document.
 
1
compared to $107 million in the first quarter of 2006. Allstate Financial generated $156 million of operating income for the quarter and is making progress in raising returns on new business.
Our investment portfolios generated strong results for both Property-Liability and Allstate Financial. Both business units benefited from growth in assets under management.  Allstate Financial's portfolio yield, in particular, also benefited from a rise in yield on its floating rate investments. Realized capital gain activity also outpaced last year's results and was primarily driven by non-recurring gains related to the disposition of certain limited partnership interests.
Capital Management
During the first quarter we repurchased $700 million of common stock, bringing the cumulative repurchases under the $3 billion repurchase program announced in October 2006 to $907 million. Allstate's board of directors has also authorized the issuance of up to $1 billion of junior subordinated securities with the proceeds to be used to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock by March 31, 2008, in addition to the current $3 billion authorization. We plan to complete the hybrid offering during the second quarter (market conditions permitting). "We also will continue to focus on reducing our exposure to mega-catastrophes through a variety of initiatives while seeking alternative solutions for our customers," added Wilson.
People
"The depth and strength of our management team across the company allowed us to seamlessly continue the leadership transitions we announced beginning in September 2006. In the quarter, we made some key executive appointments in Allstate Protection due to retirements and created a new organization with responsibility for emerging businesses. This new team will improve focus on lines of business that offer Allstate additional opportunities for profitable growth," said Wilson.
Outlook
"Overall, we are pleased with our performance during the quarter. We remain focused on executing our multifaceted competitive strategy to continue generating strong returns for shareholders and delivering market-leading products and services to our customers. We continue to expect that the Property-Liability combined ratio, excluding the effect of catastrophes and assuming no prior year reserve reestimates, will be between 84.0 and 86.0 in 2007," concluded Wilson.
BUSINESS SEGMENT HIGHLIGHTS
Property-Liability
Property-Liability premiums written declined 1.7% from the first quarter of 2006, reflecting the increased cost of the Allstate Protection catastrophe reinsurance program.  The cost of the catastrophe reinsurance program was $216 million in the first quarter of 2007 compared to $73 million in the first quarter of last year.  Excluding this cost, premiums written grew 0.4% in the first quarter of 2007 when compared to the prior year quarter.
                          
1
Allstate brand standard auto premiums written grew 2.5% in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the prior year quarter.  Contributing to the overall change were the following:
                          
       2.6% increase in policies in force ("PIF")
       7.3% increase in new issued applications
2
 
 
(2) Hurricane exposure states are Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia and Washington D.C.
      
0.2 point decline in the renewal ratio to 89.7% due to competitive pressures
      
0.2% increase in six month average premium to $420
 
Allstate brand homeowners premiums written declined 5.8% in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the prior year quarter due to our catastrophe risk management actions.  Contributing to the overall change were the following:
                 
      
0.5% decrease in PIF
      
11.8% decrease in new issued applications
 
 
      
0.6 point decline in the renewal ratio to 86.4%
      
1.9% increase in twelve month average premium to $847.  Average premium is calculated using premiums written before reinsurance.
 
We continue to aggressively seek to cover our reinsurance cost in premium rates.  Rates currently effective related to our reinsurance programs reflect approximately 45% of the ceded cost of our reinsurance programs, and will be included in premiums written during 2007.  We expect rates will be in effect which will reflect over 50% of the ceded cost of our reinsurance programs by the end of 2007, and be included in premiums written during 2008.
                 
Standard auto property damage gross claim frequency increased 4.8% compared to the first quarter of 2006, partially due to weather-related frequency across the central and northeastern sections of the country, while bodily injury gross claim frequency decreased 1.1%.  Auto property damage and bodily injury paid severities increased 1.2% and 1.1% respectively, slightly better than we expected at the beginning of the year.  The Allstate brand standard auto loss ratio increased 5.6 points compared to the first quarter of last year to 63.6 in the first quarter of 2007.
                 
Homeowner gross claim frequency excluding catastrophes increased 14.7% compared to first quarter of 2006, primarily in weather-related perils.  Homeowners severity increased 8.6% compared to first quarter of 2006.  The Allstate brand homeowners loss ratio increased 3.4 points to 55.2 in the first quarter of 2007.
                 
The Property-Liability expense ratio declined 1.5 points to 24.1 in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the prior year quarter primarily reflecting lower restructuring charges.
                 
Property-Liability prior year favorable reserve reestimates for the quarter totaled $129 million, compared to $211 million in the prior year first quarter.  The current year favorable reserve reestimates resulted primarily from claim severity development that was better than anticipated in previous estimates in Allstate Protection and a reduction in the reinsurance recoverable valuation allowance for Discontinued Lines and Coverages
                 
3
related to Equitas Limited's ("Equitas") improved financial position as a result of its reinsurance coverage with National Indemnity Company.
Underwriting income was $1.05 billion during the first quarter of 2007 compared to $1.24 billion in the same period of 2006.  The decrease was due to the higher cost of the expanded catastrophe reinsurance program, higher catastrophe losses, increases in auto and homeowners claim frequency excluding catastrophes, increased current year severity, and lower favorable reserve estimates related to prior years, partially offset by increased premiums earned before the cost of the catastrophe reinsurance program, lower restructuring and related charges and operating costs and expenses.
                 
The Property-Liability combined ratio was impacted by catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  The impacts for the three months ended March 31, are shown in the table below.
                 
 
 
Allstate Financial
Operating income for the first quarter of 2007 was $156 million compared to $144 million in the prior year quarter, driven by the following:
                 
      
$9 million, after-tax, favorable impact related to the annual review of assumptions related to DAC amortization (commonly referred to as "unlocking") and reserves for certain annuity guarantees
   $10 million, after-tax, reduction in restructuring charges
   Partially offset by $9 million, after-tax, of litigation-related expenses
Deferred fixed annuity deposits in the first quarter of 2007 were $621 million (including indexed annuities), a decrease of 43.2% from the prior year quarter and 26.8% below the fourth quarter of 2006.  The decrease is indicative of lower industry-wide fixed annuity sales and our strategy to raise returns on capital for these products.
                 
Deposits on institutional products during the first quarter of 2007 were $1.20 billion compared to $350 million in deposits in the first quarter of 2006.  Allstate Financial generally prioritizes the allocation of fixed income investments to support sales of those retail products with the best sustainable growth and contribution margins, and to maintain our retail market presence. As a result, sales of our institutional products vary from period to period.
                 
Investments as of March 31, 2007 increased 3.2% from March 31, 2006 levels primarily due to growth in customer account values and higher unrealized capital gains, partially offset by the transfer of assets to Prudential Financial, Inc. upon the closing of the variable annuity disposition through reinsurance and dividends paid.
                 
The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle related to our adoption of Statement of Position 05-1, "Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts" reduced net income by $9 million, after-tax, during the first quarter of 2007.
                 
4
 
5
 
6
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION
CONTRIBUTION TO INCOME
 
 
7
 
 
 
8
 
9
 
(1) Includes a $46 million reduction in the reinsurance recoverable valuation allowance related to Equitas' improved financial position as a result of its reinsurance coverage with National Indemnity Company.
10
 
11
Rate increases that are indicated based on a loss trend analysis to achieve a targeted return will continue to be pursued in all locations and for all products.  Rate changes include changes approved based on our net cost of reinsurance.  These rate changes do not reflect initial rates filed for insurance subsidiaries initially writing new business.
(1)
            
Represents the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2007 as a percentage of total countrywide prior year-end premiums written.
(2)
            
Represents the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2007 as a percentage of total prior year-end premiums written in those states.
(3)
            
12
 
 
Other includes involuntary auto, commercial lines, condominium, renters and other personal lines.
(1)
            
Loss Ratio comparisons are impacted by the relative level of prior year reserve reestimates.  Please refer to the "Effect of Pretax Prior Year Reserve Reestimates on the Combined Ratio" table for detailed reserve reestimate information.
(2)
            
13
 
 
 
(1) Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.                            
(2) Favorable reserve reestimates included in catastrophe losses totaled $6 million and $64 million in the three months ended      March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006, respectively. 
(3) Includes a $46 million reduction in the reinsurance recoverable valuation allowance related to Equitas' improved financial      position as a result of its reinsurance coverage with National Indemnity Company.
14
 
15
 
Total investments includes $42,524 for Property-Liability, $77,727 for Allstate Financial and $2,131 for Corporate and Other investments at March 31, 2007.  Total investments includes $41,663 for Property-Liability, $75,951 for Allstate Financial and $2,143 for Corporate and Other investments at December 31, 2006.
(1)
            
16
Definitions of GAAP Operating Ratios
is the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe losses.
Claims and claims expense ("loss") ratio
is the ratio of amortization of deferred acquisition costs ("DAC"), operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
Expense ratio
Combined ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense, amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.  The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio.  The difference between 100% and the combined ratio represents underwriting income (loss)
1
 as a percentage of premiums earned.
is the ratio of claims and claims expense and other costs and expenses in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment to Property-Liability premiums earned.  The sum of the effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on the combined ratio and the Allstate Protection combined ratio is equal to the Property-Liability combined ratio.
Effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on combined ratio
is the percentage of catastrophe losses included in claims and claims expenses to premiums earned.
Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio
is the percentage of pretax reserve reestimates included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned.
Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on combined ratio
is the percentage of restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
Effect of restructuring and related charges on combined ratio
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following non-GAAP financial measures.  Our methods of calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
Operating income
is income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, after-tax, excluding:
     
realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivative instruments, which are reported with realized capital gains and losses but included in operating income,
     
amortization of DAC and deferred sales inducements ("DSI"), to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital gains and losses,
     
(loss) gain on disposition of operations, after-tax, and
     
adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years.
Net income is the GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to operating income.
We use operating income to evaluate our results of operations.  It reveals trends in our insurance and financial services business that may be obscured by the net effect of realized capital gains and losses, (loss) gain on disposition of operations and adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items.  Realized capital gains and losses and (loss) gain on disposition of operations may vary significantly between periods and are generally driven by business decisions and economic developments such as capital market conditions, the timing of which is unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  Consistent with our intent
17
to protect results or earn additional income, operating income includes periodic settlements and accruals on certain derivative instruments that are reported in realized capital gains and losses because they do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  These instruments are used for economic hedges and to replicate fixed income securities, and by including them in operating income, we are appropriately reflecting their trends in our performance and in a manner consistent with the economically hedged investments, product attributes (e.g. net investment income and interest credited to contractholder funds) or replicated investments.  Non-recurring items are excluded because, by their nature, they are not indicative of our business or economic trends.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our performance.  We note that the price to earnings multiple commonly used by insurance investors as a forward-looking valuation technique uses operating income as the denominator.  We use adjusted measures of operating income and operating income per diluted share in incentive compensation.  Operating income should not be considered as a substitute for net income and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.
The following tables reconcile operating income and net income for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
 
is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expense ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP.  Management uses this measure in its evaluation of results of operations to analyze the profitability of our Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results.  It is also an integral component of incentive compensation.  It is useful for investors to evaluate the components of income separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance. Net income is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Underwriting income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of Property-Liability underwriting income (loss) to net income is provided in the Segment Results table.
Underwriting income
(loss)
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between the two operating ratios, combined ratio (a GAAP measure) and the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our property-liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses, which cause our loss trends to vary significantly
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes
18
between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude and which have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  The combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes to combined ratio is provided in the Property-Liability Highlights section of the Consolidated and Segments Highlights table.
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between three operating ratios: the combined ratio (a GAAP measure), the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio and the effect of prior year reserve reestimates on the combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our property-liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses, which cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude and which have a significant impact on the combined ratio, and prior year reserve reestimates, which are caused by unexpected loss development on historical reserves.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  We also provide it to facilitate a comparison to our outlook on the 2007 combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophe losses and assuming no prior year reserve reestimates.  The combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates to combined ratio is provided in the Property-Liability Highlights section of the Consolidated and Segments Highlights table.
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates
In this press release, we provide our outlook on the 2007 combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophe losses and assuming no prior year reserve reestimates.  A reconciliation of this measure to the combined ratio is not possible on a forward-looking basis because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of catastrophes.  Prior year reserve reestimates are expected to be zero because reserves are determined based on our best estimate of ultimate loss reserves as of the reporting date.
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure. It is calculated by dividing the rolling 12-month operating income by the average of shareholders' equity at the beginning and at the end of the 12-month period, after excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains. We use it to supplement our evaluation of net income and return on equity. We believe that this measure is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and that are driven by economic developments, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management:  the after-tax effects of realized and unrealized capital gains and losses and the cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, and non-recurring items that are not indicative of our business or economic trends. Return on equity is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  The following table shows the reconciliation.
Operating income return on equity
 
19
 
The net funded status of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans recognized upon adoption of FASB Statement No. 158 increased return on equity by 0.5 points in the twelve months ended March 31, 2007.
(3)
            
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure.  It is calculated by dividing shareholders' equity after excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains on fixed income securities and related DAC and life insurance reserves by total shares outstanding plus dilutive potential shares outstanding.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains on fixed income securities,
We use the trend in book value per share, excluding unrealized net capital gains on fixed income securities, in conjunction with book value per share to identify and analyze the change in net worth attributable to management efforts between periods.  We believe the non-GAAP ratio is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and are generally driven by economic developments, primarily capital market conditions, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management, and we believe it enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers.  We note that book value per share, excluding unrealized net capital gains on fixed income securities, is a measure commonly used by insurance investors as a valuation technique.  Book value per share, excluding unrealized net capital gains on
20
fixed income securities, should not be considered as a substitute for book value per share, and does not reflect the recorded net worth of our business.  The following table shows the reconciliation.
The net funded status of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans recognized upon adoption of FASB Statement No. 158 reduced book value per share by $1.74 as of March 31, 2007.
(4)
            
 is comprised primarily of life and annuity premiums and contract charges and net investment income, less contract benefits and interest credited to contractholder funds excluding amortization of DSI.  Gross margin also includes periodic settlements and accruals on certain non-hedge derivative instruments (see additional discussion below under "investment margin"). We use gross margin as a component of our evaluation of the profitability of Allstate Financial's life insurance and financial product portfolio.  Additionally, for many of our products, including fixed annuities, variable life and annuities, and interest-sensitive life insurance, the amortization of DAC and DSI is determined based on actual and expected gross margin. Gross margin is comprised of three components that are utilized to further analyze the business; they include the investment margin, benefit margin, and contract charges and fees. We believe gross margin and its components are useful to investors because they allow for the evaluation of income components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance.  Gross margin, investment margin and benefit margin should not be considered as a substitute for net income and do not reflect the overall profitability of the business. Net income is the GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to these margins.  Gross margin is reconciled to Allstate Financial's GAAP net income in the following table.
Gross margin
1
1
1
 
21
 
Amortization of DSI was excluded from interest credited to contractholder funds for purposes of calculating gross margin.  Amortization of DSI totaled est. $10 million in the first quarter of 2007 and $7 million in the first quarter of 2006.
5       
is a component of gross margin.  Investment margin represents the excess of net investment income and periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivative instruments over interest credited to contractholder funds and the implied interest on life-contingent immediate annuities included in Allstate Financial's reserve for life-contingent contract benefits.  We utilize certain derivative instruments as economic hedges of investments or contractholder funds and to replicate fixed income securities.  These instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  Such derivatives are accounted for at fair value, and reported in realized capital gains and losses.  Periodic settlements and accruals on these derivative instruments are included as a component of gross margin, consistent with their intended use to enhance or maintain investment income and margin, and together with the economically hedged investments or product attributes (e.g. net investment income or interest credited to contractholder funds) or replicated investments, to appropriately reflect trends in product performance.  Amortization of DSI is excluded from interest credited to contractholder funds for purposes of calculating investment margin.  We use investment margin to evaluate Allstate Financial's profitability related to the difference between investment returns on assets supporting certain products and the amounts credited to customers ("spread") during a fiscal period.
Investment margin
is a component of gross margin.  Benefit margin represents life and life-contingent immediate annuity premiums, cost of insurance contract charges and variable annuity fees for contract guarantees less contract benefits.  Benefit margin excludes the implied interest on life-contingent immediate annuities, which is included in the calculation of investment margin.  We use benefit margin to evaluate Allstate Financial's underwriting performance, as it reflects the profitability of our products with respect to mortality or morbidity risk during a fiscal period.
Benefit margin
22
 
The components of gross margin are reconciled to the corresponding financial statement line items in the following tables.
 
Amortization of DSI was excluded from interest credited to contractholder funds for purposes of calculating gross margin.  Amortization of DSI totaled est. $10 million in the first quarter of 2007 and $7 million in the first quarter of 2006.
6   
Operating Measures
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following operating financial measures.  Our method of calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
A reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned is presented in the following table.
Premiums written
is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period.  Premiums earned is a GAAP measure.  Premiums are considered earned and are included in financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period.  The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
 
Premiums and deposits
1
 is an operating measure that we use to analyze production trends for Allstate Financial sales.  It includes premiums on insurance policies and annuities and all deposits and other funds received from customers on deposit-type products including the net new deposits of Allstate Bank, which we account for under GAAP as increases to liabilities rather than as revenue.
 
23
The following table illustrates where premiums and deposits are reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
 
7   
Life and annuity contract charges in the amount of est. $241 million and $300 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which are also revenues recognized for GAAP, have been excluded from the table above, but are a component of the Consolidated Statements of Operations line item life and annuity premiums and contract charges.
8   
Disposed through reinsurance effective June 1, 2006.
New sales of financial products by Allstate exclusive agencies
is an operating measure that we use to quantify the current year sales of financial products by the Allstate Agency proprietary distribution channel.  New sales of financial products by Allstate exclusive agencies includes sales of Allstate Financial products such as annual premiums on new life insurance policies, annual premiums on Allstate Workplace Division products, premiums and deposits on fixed annuities, net new deposits in the Allstate Bank and sales of Allstate Financial-issued variable annuities, and sales of products by non-affiliated issuers such as mutual funds and Prudential-issued variable annuities.  New sales of financial products by Allstate exclusive agencies exclude renewal premiums on life insurance policies.  New sales of financial products by Allstate exclusive agencies for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 are presented in the following table.
9
      
Disposed through reinsurance effective June 1, 2006.  Allstate Financial variable annuities continue to be issued during the transition period of this reinsurance agreement, which is expected to be 24 months or less.
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This press release contains forward-looking statements about our combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and assuming no prior year reserve reestimates for 2007 and the completion of our share repurchase program.  These statements are subject to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections.  Actual results may differ materially from those projected based on the risk factors described below.
Adjustments to our business structure, size and underwriting practices in markets with significant catastrophe risk exposure may impact homeowners premium growth rates and retention more adversely than we expect.  In addition, due to the diminished potential for cross-selling opportunities, new business growth in our auto lines could be lower than expected.  Efforts to recover the costs of our catastrophe reinsurance program through rate increases may not be entirely successful due to resistance by regulators or non-renewal decisions by policyholders resulting in a lower amount of insurance in force.
                 
 
24
 
Auto and homeowners frequencies or severities may be higher than anticipated levels due to unexpected trends or events such as severe weather.
                 
Actual placement of the remainder of our reinsurance program in the state of Florida and any other risk transfers and related premium impacts may differ from our expectations due to not yet placing the remainder of our program in the reinsurance market and state legislative actions.
                 
The completion of our share repurchase program is subject to the risks identified above and their impact on net income and cash flows, as well as management discretion and assessment of alternative uses of funds and the market price of Allstate's common stock from time to time.
                 
We undertake no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statements.  This press release contains unaudited financial information.
" slogan, Allstate helps individuals in approximately 17 million households protect what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow through approximately 14,800 exclusive agencies and financial professionals in the U.S. and Canada. Customers can access Allstate products and services such as auto insurance and homeowners insurance through Allstate agencies, or in select states at allstate.com and 1-800 Allstate. Encompass and DeerbrookInsurance brand property and casualty products are sold exclusively through independent agents. The Allstate Financial Group provides life insurance, supplemental accident and health insurance, annuity, banking and retirement products designed for individual, institutional and worksite customers that are distributed through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, financial institutions and broker-dealers.
The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer. Widely known through the "You're In Good Hands With Allstate
We post an investor supplement on our web site. You can access it by going to allstate.com and clicking on "Investor Relations." From there, go to the "Quarterly Investor Info" button.  We will post additional information to the supplement over the next 30 days as it becomes available.
 
 
25


