FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20070518161011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
              
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
              
 
 
Item 3.03.  Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
Amendments to the Registrant's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the supermajority vote requirements were approved at its annual stockholders meeting.   The amendments became effective on May 17, 2007 when they were filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware.  The Registrant's Restated Certificate of Incorporation was restated to reflect the amendments and became effective when it was filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 17, 2007
The amendment to Article Sixth changes the percentage of votes required for stockholders to amend the bylaws from the affirmative vote of 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares to a majority of the outstanding shares.
The amendment to Article Seventh changes the percentage of votes required for stockholders to remove a director, with or without cause, from the affirmative vote of 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares to a majority of the outstanding shares, and deletes the provision requiring the affirmative vote of 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares to change Article Seventh.
This foregoing description of the amendments is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation attached as Exhibit 3(i), which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01.  Other Events
                 
Hurricane Katrina Claims in Mississippi
The Registrant has received a subpoena from a U.S. Grand Jury sitting in the Southern District of Mississippi. The subpoena is part of an ongoing investigation into the insurance industry's handling of Hurricane Katrina claims in Mississippi. The Registrant is working with the U.S. Attorney's office regarding Registrant's efforts to comply with the subpoena. The Registrant remains confident in its claim settlement practices following Hurricane Katrina and is committed to resolving all claims fairly and appropriately.
                 
Information Required in Registration Statement
                
In order to remove extraneous and outdated information and to clarify the description of its securities, the registrant amends its General Form for Registration of Securities Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on Form 10 (the "Registration") by amending and restating Item 11 to read as follows:
Item 11.  Description of Registrant's Securities to be Registered.
The Allstate Corporation is incorporated in the State of Delaware. The following description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the relevant provisions of Delaware law and Allstate's restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, which govern the rights of Allstate stockholders.
Authorized Capital Stock
As of April 30, 2007, the authorized capital stock of Allstate was 2,025,000,000 shares. Those shares consisted of:
25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value of $1.00 per share, none of which were issued and outstanding; and
                 
2,000,000,000 shares of common stock, par value of $0.01, of which 900,000,000 were issued and 607,408,065 were outstanding.
                 
Common Stock
Outstanding shares of Allstate common stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "ALL." Common stockholders may receive dividends as and when declared by the Allstate board of directors. Dividends may be paid in cash, stock or other form.
2
In certain cases, common  stockholders may not receive dividends until obligations of any preferred stockholders have been satisfied. All outstanding shares of common stock are fully paid and non-assessable. Each share of common stock is entitled to one vote for each nominee in the election of directors and one vote on each other matter. Common stockholders are not entitled to preemptive or cumulative voting rights. Common stockholders will be notified of any stockholders' meeting in accordance with applicable law. If Allstate liquidates, dissolves, or winds-up its business, common stockholders will share equally in the assets remaining after creditors and preferred stockholders are paid.
Preferred Stock
The following description of the terms of the preferred stock sets forth certain general terms and provisions of the Allstate authorized preferred stock.
The Allstate board of directors can, without approval of the stockholders, issue one or more series of preferred stock. The Allstate board can also determine the number of shares of each series and the rights, preferences and limitations of each series including the dividend rights, voting rights, conversion rights, redemption rights and any liquidation preferences of any wholly unissued series of preferred stock, the number of shares constituting each series and the terms and conditions of issue. In some cases, the issuance of preferred shares could delay a change in control of Allstate and make it harder to remove present management. Under certain circumstances, preferred stock could also restrict dividend payments to holders of common stock.
No series of preferred stock is currently authorized for issuance by the Allstate board.
Stockholder Voting Requirements
Directors are elected if they receive the vote of the majority of the votes cast at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present.  A majority of votes cast means the number of shares voted "FOR" a director exceeds 50% of the votes cast with respect to that director's election.  Votes cast shall include votes to withhold authority in each case and exclude abstentions.
Except as otherwise provided in Allstate's certificate of incorporation or in its bylaws or as required by law, all other matters can be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented at a meeting and entitled to vote on the matter.
Change in Control
Some provisions of Allstate's certificate of incorporation and by-laws are designed to enhance or have the effect of enhancing the ability of the Allstate board of directors, and ultimately the stockholders, to negotiate with potential acquirers from a strong position and to protect stockholders against unfair or unequal treatment in an attempt to acquire Allstate. However, these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Allstate or could operate with respect to an extraordinary transaction such as a merger, reorganization, tender offer, sale or transfer of substantially all of Allstate's assets or its liquidation. The following is a summary of those provisions.
Allstate's by-laws require prior notice of any business that a stockholder intends to bring before an annual stockholders meeting.
                 
3
Allstate's by-laws do not allow stockholders to call special stockholder meetings. They provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called at any time by the chairman of the board and shall be called by the chairman of the board at the written request of a majority of the board of directors.
                 
Stockholders may not act by written consent. All actions required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders must be taken only at an annual or special meeting of stockholders.
                 
Delaware law generally prohibits an interested stockholder (under Delaware law, a stockholder owning 15% or more of a public Delaware corporation's outstanding voting stock) from engaging in business combinations involving the corporation during the three years after the date the person became an interested stockholder unless, among other things:
                 
Prior to such date, the board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder;
                 
Upon the completion of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced; or
                 
At or after such time, the business combination is approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders by at least 66/% of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder.
                 
2
3
Such prohibition, however, does not apply if a stockholder becomes an interested stockholder inadvertently and as soon as practicable divests itself of ownership of sufficient shares so that the stockholder ceases to be an interested stockholder and, except for inadvertently becoming an interested stockholder, was not an interested stockholder in the three years prior to completion of the business combination.
These business combinations include mergers, consolidations, sales of assets and transactions benefiting the interested stockholder. Allstate has not opted out of these provisions of Delaware law.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
4
(d)           Exhibits
 
5
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
6
 
7

Exhibit 3(i)
The Allstate Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:
1.        The name of the corporation is The Allstate Corporation. The Allstate Corporation was originally incorporated under the same name. The original Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on November 5, 1992.
2.        This Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly adopted in accordance with Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.  Pursuant to Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation only restates and integrates and does not further amend the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of this corporation as heretofore amended or supplemented.  There is no discrepancy between the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of this corporation as heretofore amended or supplemented and the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
3.        The text of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation as heretofore amended or supplemented is hereby restated to read in its entirety as follows:
The name of the corporation is The Allstate Corporation.
The address of the corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
The nature of the business or purposes to be conducted or promoted is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
The total number of shares which the corporation shall have authority to issue shall be 2,025,000,000, divided into two classes, namely: 25,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share ("Preferred Stock"), and 2,000,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock").
The number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock and Common Stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the stock of the corporation entitled to vote with respect to such matter without any class vote required by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
The designation, relative rights, preferences and limitations of the shares of each class, the authority of the board of directors of the corporation to establish and to designate series of the Preferred Stock and to fix the variations in the relative rights, preferences and limitations as between such series, and the relative rights, preferences and limitations of each such series, shall be as follows:
1.        .
Preferred Stock
(a)    The board of directors of the corporation is authorized, subject to the limitation prescribed by law and the provisions of this Section 1 of this Article FOURTH, to provide for the issuance of the Preferred Stock in series, to establish or change the number of shares to be included in each such series and to fix the designation, relative rights, preferences and limitations of the shares of each such series. The authority of the board of directors of the corporation with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:
the number of shares constituting that series and the distinctive designation of that series;
(i)
                      
the dividend rate or rates on the shares of that series and/or the method of determining such rate or rates, whether dividends shall be cumulative, and if so, from which date or dates;
(ii)
                   
whether and to what extent the shares of that series shall have voting rights in addition to the voting rights provided by law, which might include the right to elect a specified number of directors in any case or if dividends on such series were not paid for a specified period of time;
(iii)
                
2
 
whether the shares of that series shall be convertible into shares of stock of any other series or class, and, if so, the terms and conditions of such conversion, including the price or prices or the rate or rates of conversion and the terms of adjustment thereof;
(iv)
               
whether or not the shares of that series shall be redeemable, and, if so, the terms and conditions of such redemption, including the date or dates upon or after which they shall be redeemable and the amount per share payable in case of redemption, which amount may vary under different conditions and at different redemption dates;
(v)
                  
the rights of the shares of that series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation;
(vi)
               
the obligation, if any, of the corporation to retire shares of that series pursuant to a sinking fund; and
(vii)
            
any other relative rights, preferences and limitations of the Series.
(viii)
         
(b)      Subject to the designations, relative rights, preferences and limitations provided pursuant to Subsection 1(a) of this Article FOURTH, each share of Preferred Stock of a series shall be of equal rank with each other share of Preferred Stock of such series.
2.     .
Common Stock
(a)      Subject to the express terms of the Preferred Stock outstanding from time to time, such dividend or distribution as may be determined by the board of directors of the corporation may from time to time be declared and paid or made upon the Common Stock out of any source at the time lawfully available for the payment of dividends.
Dividends.
 
(b)      Except as otherwise provided by law, each share of Common Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to one vote in any matter which is submitted to a vote of the holders of shares of Common Stock of the corporation.
Voting.
 
(c)      The holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to share ratably upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the corporation (voluntary or involuntary) in all assets of the corporation, if any, remaining after payment in full to the holders of Preferred Stock of the preferential amounts, if any, to which they are entitled. Neither the consolidation nor the merger of the corporation with or into any other corporation or corporations, nor a reorganization of the corporation alone, nor the sale or transfer by the corporation of all or any part of its assets, shall be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation for the purposes of this subparagraph (2)(c).
Liquidation.
 
3.     .
General Provision with Respect to All Classes of Stock; Issuance of Stock
Shares of capital stock of the corporation may be issued by the corporation from time to time in such amounts and proportions and for such consideration (not less than the par value thereof in the case of capital stock having par value) as may be fixed and determined from time to time by the board of directors and as shall be permitted by law.
3
 
The corporation is to have perpetual existence.
In furtherance and not in limitation of the power conferred by statute, the board of directors of the corporation is expressly authorized to adopt, amend or repeal the bylaws of the corporation. The stockholders may adopt, amend or repeal bylaws of the corporation only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of the total number of votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors.
Meetings of stockholders may be held within or without the State of Delaware, as the bylaws of the corporation may provide. The books of the corporation may be kept outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as may be designated from time to time by the board of directors or in the bylaws of the corporation. Election of directors need not be by written ballot unless the bylaws of the corporation so provide.
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of any class or series of stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors may be taken only by vote at an annual or special meeting at which such action may be taken and may not be taken by written consent.
No director may be removed, with or without cause, by the stockholders except by the affirmative vote of holders of not less than a majority of the total number of votes entitled to be cast at an election of such director; provided, however, that, whenever the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock issued pursuant to ARTICLE FOURTH, Section 1 hereof, are entitled, by the terms of such class or series of Preferred Stock, voting separately by class or series to elect one or more directors, the provisions of the preceding clause of this sentence shall not apply with respect to such directors if the terms of such class or series of Preferred Stock expressly provide otherwise.
To the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, a director of the corporation shall not be personally liable to the corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for a breach of fiduciary duty as a director. Any repeal or modification of this ARTICLE EIGHTH shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
The corporation expressly elects to be governed by Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
4
 
The corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this certificate of incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed herein and by the laws of the State of Delaware, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the corporation has caused this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be signed by its Deputy General Counsel and by its Secretary on this 16th day of May, 2007.
 
 
5


