FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20081201142738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                     
 
o
       Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
                     
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On December 1, 2008, the Registrant announced that Judith P. Greffin has been promoted to lead Allstate Investments, the Registrant's investment operation.  She will succeed Eric A. Simonson who will be retiring effective December 31, 2008.  Mr. Simonson is currently a named executive officer of the Registrant, as set forth in the Registrant's Notice of 2008 Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement filed April 2, 2008.
 
A copy of the press release announcing this leadership transition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99
NEWS
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
NORTHBROOK, Ill. (December 1, 2008) 
Allstate Insurance Company (NYSE:ALL) today announced that Senior Vice President Judith Greffin has been promoted to lead Allstate Investments, the company's investment operation.  She will report to Thomas J. Wilson, Allstate's chairman, president and chief executive officer.  Greffin, an 18-year Allstate employee, will succeed Eric A. (Ric) Simonson, 63, who is retiring effective December 31.
 
Greffin, 48, was named senior vice president and chief investment officer of Allstate Insurance Company in August 2008. Previously, she served as senior managing director and chief operating officer of the investment operation.
 
"Judy's promotion represents the final step in our thoughtful and carefully planned leadership transition," said Wilson.  "She is the right person at the right time to lead our $100 billion investment portfolio."
 
"With nearly twenty years of experience at Allstate, Judy has developed business and investment skills that are both broad and deep. She has significant experience in the fixed income capital markets and understands our clients and their underlying businesses.  In addition, as the government and markets work to contain the financial turmoil, it's important that we continue to have an experienced leadership team in place.
 
"I would like to thank Ric for the guidance he has provided Judy during this transition and for his outstanding contributions to Allstate over the past six years.   We congratulate him on his retirement." Wilson added.
 
Greffin said, "I am honored to lead a top-notch team of investment professionals during this unprecedented time in our financial markets.  I am committed to continuing Allstate's proactive, decisive approach to risk reduction and overseeing our well-diversified investment portfolio for the company."
 
An Ohio native, Greffin holds a
BS from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, and an MBA from Ohio State University.
Outside of Allstate, she is an active board member of the Investment Analysts Society of Chicago and Facing History and Ourselves.  She is also a Chartered Financial Analyst and member of the Economic Club of Chicago.
 
The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer. Widely known through the "You're In Good Hands With Allstate" slogan, Allstate is reinventing protection and retirement to help individuals in approximately 17 million households protect what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow. Customers can access Allstate products and services such as auto insurance and homeowners insurance through approximately 14,700 exclusive Allstate agencies and financial representatives in the U.S. and Canada, or in select states at allstate.com and 1-800 Allstate. Encompass and Deerbrook Insurance brand property and casualty products are sold exclusively through independent agents. The Allstate Financial Group provides life insurance, supplemental accident and health insurance, annuity, banking and retirement products designed for individual, institutional and worksite customers that are distributed through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, financial institutions and broker-dealers. Customers can also access information about Allstate Financial Group products and services at myallstatefinancial.com.
 


