FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20091027133255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On October 26, 2009, the Registrant issued a press release announcing the retirement of George E. Ruebenson, president of its Allstate Protection segment, effective as of December 31, 2009.  Mr. Ruebenson is a named executive officer of the Registrant. 
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this report.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01.
                                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: October 27, 2009

Exhibit 99
 
NEWS
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
NORTHBROOK, Ill., October 26, 2009
 The Allstate Corporation (NYSE:ALL) today announced that George E. Ruebenson, president, Allstate Protection, will retire effective December 31, 2009, after nearly 40 years of service.  As the president of Allstate Protection, Ruebenson has maintained its financial performance in this uncertain economic climate, improved customer loyalty and built a foundation for sustainable growth.
 
"George's service to our customers and company has helped people rebuild their lives after catastrophes, strengthen Allstate and secure a bright future for all of us," said Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas J. Wilson. "He is a superb business leader and has led our community efforts to keep teenagers safe while driving. His dedication to customers, employees and agency owners is a core part of our culture and is a strength we will build upon for future success."
 
Ruebenson joined Allstate in 1970 and held a number of key leadership positions in the company's home office and field operation. In 2000, he was named vice president for the Property-Casualty Claims Service Organization, the largest employee group in the company. Shortly after, Ruebenson became a member of Allstate's senior management team as senior vice president. Ruebenson was appointed president of Allstate Protection in 2007.
 
Consistent with the company's succession planning approach, a disciplined process is underway to select Allstate Protection's next president.
 
Wilson continued, "We have a world class senior management team that will build on George's successes and reinvent protection and retirement for the consumer."
 
Allstate Protection combines the property and casualty offerings of Allstate, as well as Encompass
SM
 and Deerbrook Insurance, which are sold through Allstate and independent agencies, respectively.
 
The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer. Widely known through the "You're In Good Hands With Allstate
" slogan, Allstate is reinventing protection and retirement to help more than 17 million households insure what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow. Consumers access Allstate insurance products and services
 
through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives in the U.S. and Canada, as well as via www.allstate.com and 1-800 Allstate
.


