FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20090515155542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01.
              
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On May 15, 2009, the registrant issued a press release confirming that it had received preliminary approval to participate in the U.S. Treasury Department's Capital Purchase Program. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01.
                                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  May 15, 2009

Exhibit 99
 
 
NEWS
.
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
Northbrook, Ill.,
May 15, 2009  The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) confirmed today the company received preliminary approval to participate in the U.S. Treasury Department's Capital Purchase Program (CPP).
 
"Inclusion of insurance companies in the Capital Purchase Program is a positive and proactive step by the administration to stabilize the financial markets, and recognizes the integral role that insurance companies play in our economy," said Allstate Chairman, President and CEO Thomas J. Wilson.
 
"As a result of our proactive approach to risk management, Allstate is well capitalized, highly liquid and has full access to the debt markets, as evidenced by the significant oversubscription to our $1 billion debt offering completed earlier this week. Allstate's financial strength ratings were also reaffirmed by Moody's, Standard and Poor's and A.M. Best in conjunction with this transaction. In addition, an improving trend in the volatile financial markets has resulted in a more than $1.5 billion improvement in our high quality securities portfolio value from the end of the first quarter as of May 13," Wilson continued. "Consequently, we remain confident in our current capital position. We will, however, undertake a prudent review of our participation in CPP in light of market conditions and our current capital position before responding to the Treasury's preliminary approval," Wilson concluded.
 
The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer. Widely known through the "You're In Good Hands With Allstate
" slogan, Allstate is reinventing protection and retirement to help individuals in approximately 17 million households protect what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow. Customers can access Allstate products and services such as auto insurance and homeowners insurance through approximately 14,700 exclusive Allstate agencies and financial representatives in the U.S. and Canada, or in select states at www.allstate.com and 1-800 Allstate
. Encompass
 Insurance brand property and casualty products are sold exclusively through independent agents. The Allstate Financial Group provides life insurance, supplemental accident and health insurance, annuity, banking and retirement products designed for individual, institutional and worksite customers that are distributed through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, financial institutions and broker-dealers. Customers can also access information about Allstate Financial Group products and services at www.myallstatefinancial.com.
 


