FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20091007150006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
 
On October 6, 2009, the Registrant issued a press release announcing the selection of Matthew Winter as president and chief executive officer of its Allstate Financial segment.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this report.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01.
             
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
          
Exhibits
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
NEWS
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
NORTHBROOK, Ill., October 6, 2009
Allstate (NYSE: ALL) today announced it has selected Matthew Winter, 52, as president and chief executive officer of Allstate Financial. Winter will be responsible for leading Allstate Financial's effort to provide life insurance and retirement products to middle-income Americans. He will serve as a member of the corporation's senior management team, reporting to Thomas J. Wilson, Allstate's chairman, president and chief executive officer. Winter will join Allstate effective October 26.
 
"Matt's outstanding track record of success, experience and leadership make him an excellent addition to our team," said Wilson. "He has the intellectual capacity, creativity and enthusiasm to drive our vision of reinventing protection and retirement."
 
For the past 15 years, Winter has held senior leadership positions at large-scale providers of life insurance and other financial products. He most recently served as vice chairman of American International Group, and was president and CEO for AIG American General Domestic Life Companies for approximately three years. Before joining AIG, Winter was executive vice president at Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company. Early in his career, Winter spent over 12 years on active duty with the U.S. Army, and also practiced law for several years before joining the insurance industry. Winter earned a B.S. from the University of Michigan, a J.D. from Albany Law School of Union University, and an LL.M. from the University of Virginia School of Law.
 
"I am very pleased to be joining such a high caliber, high energy management team, and I am excited about the tremendous opportunity ahead," Winter said. "Middle-income Americans are overlooked and underserved when it comes to financial services. Allstate's strong brand and network of Allstate agents across the country give Allstate Financial a unique opportunity to help these hard-working consumers protect their families and prepare for retirement."
 
 
Prior to Winter's appointment, Allstate Financial was led by George Ruebenson, who assumed the interim Allstate Financial CEO role in December 2008 in addition to his responsibilities as president of Allstate Protection, Allstate's property and casualty business unit. Ruebenson will continue as president of Allstate Protection.
 
The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer. Widely known through the "You're In Good Hands With Allstate
" slogan, Allstate is reinventing protection and retirement to help more than 17 million households insure what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow. Consumers access Allstate insurance products and services through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives in the U.S. and Canada, as well as via www.allstate.com and 1-800 Allstate
.
 


