FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20100520152525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.07.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
(a)
              
The annual meeting of stockholders of The Allstate Corporation ("Allstate") was held on May 18, 2010.
 
(b)
 
Item 1.
       
Election of Directors.
 
Eleven board nominees for director were elected by a majority of the votes cast for terms expiring at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders.  The voting results are as follows:
 
 
Item 2.
       
Ratification of appointment of independent registered public accountant.
 
The stockholders ratified the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Allstate's independent registered public accountant for 2010.  The voting results are as follows:
 
 
Item 3. 
Stockholder proposal seeking the right to call special shareowner meetings.
 
The proposal received the vote of a majority of the shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting.  The voting results are as follows:
 
Item 4. 
Stockholder proposal seeking the right of stockholders to act by written consent.
 
The proposal received the vote of a majority of the shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting.  The voting results are as follows:
 
 
Item 5.
       
Stockholder proposal seeking an advisory resolution to ratify compensation of the named executive officers.
 
The proposal received the vote of a majority of the shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting.  The voting results are as follows:
 
 
Item 6.
       
Stockholder proposal seeking a review and report on executive compensation.
 
The proposal did not receive the vote of a majority of the shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting.  The voting results are as follows:
 
 
Item 7.
       
Stockholder proposal seeking a report on political contributions and payments to trade associations and other tax exempt organizations.
 
The proposal did not receive the vote of a majority of the shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting.  The voting results are as follows:
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


