FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20100210161015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 2.  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02.            Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 10, 2010, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2009, and the availability of the registrant's fourth quarter investor supplement on the registrant's web site. The press release and the investor supplement are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report. The information contained in the press release and the investor supplement are furnished and not filed pursuant to instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
Section 9.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
99.1            Registrant's press release dated February 10, 2010
99.2            Fourth quarter 2009 Investor Supplement of The Allstate Corporation
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
NORTHBROOK, Ill., February 10, 2010  The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) today reported results for the fourth quarter of 2009:
 
 
NM = not meaningful
* Measures used in this release that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("non-GAAP") are defined and reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure and operating measures are defined in the "Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures" section of this document.
** As a result of the adoption of new earnings per share accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2009, prior periods have been restated.
 
"Our business results continue to improve and we made substantial progress on our three goals for 2009," said Thomas J. Wilson, chairman, president and chief executive officer of The Allstate Corporation.  "We successfully executed our first priority of keeping Allstate financially strong by achieving excellent underwriting margins and improving our capital position.  Our focus on the customer resulted in improvements in customer loyalty and enabled us to share that success with employees through a maximum contribution to the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan. We also made progress in laying the foundation to reinvent protection and retirement for the consumer."
Consolidated Financial Results
 
Total revenues for the fourth quarter of 2009 were $8.1 billion, an increase of 22.7% compared to the fourth quarter of 2008.  This reflected lower realized capital losses, which decrease revenues, than the prior year quarter.  Partially offsetting this were decreases in net investment income of 19.0% and property-liability premiums of 2.3%.  Allstate's fourth quarter 2009 net income was $518 million compared to a net loss of $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to lower realized capital losses and improved operating income.  Operating income was $592 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to $518 million in the same period of 2008, reflecting improved results in both Property-Liability and Allstate Financial.
 
Total 2009 revenues were $32.0 billion, an increase of 8.9% compared to 2008.  Net income totaled $854 million in 2009 compared to a net loss of $1.7 billion in 2008.  Revenue and net income increases during 2009 were due to lower realized capital losses.  Operating income increased 7.0% during 2009 to $1.9 billion due to an increase in the Property-Liability business, partly offset by lower operating income in Allstate Financial.
 
Property-Liability Combined Ratio Reflects Continued Strength in Auto
 
Allstate's Property-Liability business produced a combined ratio of 93.2 in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to 96.4 in the prior year quarter, resulting from continued margin strength in the auto business and actions taken to reduce expenses, partly offset by the impact of catastrophe losses on the homeowners business.  The underlying combined ratio was 88.1 for the year, in line with the outlook of 87 to 89 established at the beginning of 2009.  Management's outlook for the 2010 underlying combined ratio is 88 to 90.
 
Allstate brand standard auto premiums written* for the fourth quarter of 2009 increased 0.7% compared to the prior year fourth quarter, with increases of 11.4% in new issued applications, 2.6% in average premium and 0.2 points in the renewal ratio, to 88.8.  Policies in force declined 1.0% versus the prior year quarter as improved sales and retention were offset by fewer policies available to renew.  The combined ratio was 93.7, a decline of 5.7 points from the fourth quarter of 2008, due to lower average claim costs and lower expenses partly offset by higher loss frequency.  Rate increases approved during the quarter averaged 5.5% in 15 states.
 
Allstate brand homeowners premiums written for the fourth quarter of 2009 increased 0.9% compared to the same period a year ago, as a 6.0% increase in average premium was partly offset by a 3.9% decline in policies in force.  The combined ratio was 89.0 in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to 84.6 in the fourth quarter of 2008, reflecting higher catastrophe losses and non-catastrophe claim frequencies, partly offset by lower non-catastrophe claim severities. 
Allstate continues to implement profit improvement actions in this business and also will benefit from rate increases averaging 6.5% in 22 states that were approved during the quarter.
 
Allstate had catastrophe losses of $328 million in the fourth quarter compared to $260 million in the fourth quarter of 2008.  Fourth quarter 2009 included catastrophe losses of $210 million from 13 events during the quarter and $148 million related to reestimates of events during the first nine months of 2009.
 
The Property-Liability expense ratio for the fourth quarter of 2009 was 24.9, a decline of 1.9 points compared to the prior year quarter, primarily resulting from a non-recurring write-off and benefit expense in 2008, partly offset by lower premiums earned.
 
Allstate Financial Makes Strong Progress on Focus to Win'
 
Allstate remains focused on returning Allstate Financial to profitable growth through its Focus to Win restructuring program.  During 2009, actions included reducing expenses, shifting fixed costs to variable, and targeting higher product returns.  Expense savings initiatives during 2009 delivered approximately 90% of the target of $90 million in annual cost savings.
 
Pricing actions to produce higher returns and reduce concentrations in products with profits tied to investment performance contributed to a 25.8% decrease in premiums and deposits* in the fourth quarter of 2009 versus the same period of 2008.  Premiums and deposits on life products increased 7.2% during the fourth quarter of 2009 when compared to the prior year quarter.
Allstate Financial's operating income was $95 million in the fourth quarter of 2009.  This represented a 6.7% increase from $89 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, primarily due to lower amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) and reduced operating expenses, partly offset by lower benefit and investment spreads.  The decline in DAC amortization was due to lower investment spreads and a lower amortization rate due to updated assumptions for fixed annuities.  Operating expenses decreased 26.6% to $105 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 from $143 million in the same period of 2008, in part reflecting substantial progress made through Focus to Win.  The benefit spread declined 30.1% from the prior year quarter to $100 million due to higher mortality experience and non-recurring benefit costs.  The investment spread declined 23.0% from the prior year quarter to $107 million due to lower net investment income, partly offset by lower interest credited on contractholder funds.
 
Allstate Financial's net loss was $137 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to a net loss of $1.0 billion in the same period of 2008
.  The improvement related to lower realized net capital losses, after-tax, of $178 million, compared to $736 million in the prior year quarter, and the absence of $493 million of DAC charges incurred in 2008 comprising acceleration in DAC amortization and a non-recurring DAC charge
.
 
Proactive Investment Strategies Provide both Protection and Returns
 
Throughout the year, Allstate's investment portfolio benefited from proactive strategies to mitigate risk and optimize returns, including managing interest rate, equity, and credit exposures and reducing commercial real estate holdings.  Simultaneously, the company invested in opportunities to generate income and capital appreciation.  The fourth quarter of 2009 marked the fourth consecutive quarter of positive portfolio returns, as net investment income and valuation improvements were significantly greater than net realized capital losses.
 
The consolidated investment portfolio was $99.8 billion at December 31, 2009 a slight decline from September 30, 2009, as net reductions in Allstate Financial contractholder funds and a scheduled debt repayment more than offset operating cash flows.  The pre-tax unrealized net loss totaled $2.3 billion at December 31, 2009, a $180 million improvement from the prior quarter.
 
Net investment income for the fourth quarter of 2009 was $1.1 billion, consistent with the prior quarter, but $253 million less than the fourth quarter of 2008, primarily the result of lower yields and reduced average investment balances.  Net investment income in the Property-Liability portfolio totaled $324 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, a 16.3% decline from the prior year quarter, while Allstate Financial's net investment income was $737 million, a 19.5% decline for the same period.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2009, the company deployed approximately $7.0 billion of short-term investments and cash receipts, for a total of $16.6 billion deployed during the last three quarters of 2009, primarily into fixed income and equity securities to generate income and capital appreciation. 
The duration of the fixed income investment portfolio declined 5% to 4.0 years at December 31, 2009 when compared to year-end 2008.
 
Net realized capital losses for the quarter were $33 million, pre-tax, compared to a net realized loss of $1.9 billion in the prior year quarter.  The fourth quarter of 2009 reflected $270 million of impairment write-downs and $215 million of write-downs related to the intent to sell securities that primarily have commercial real estate exposure.  Net gains of $390 million were realized on sales that were primarily part of a change in equity strategy to a more passive portfolio management approach, and $56 million from derivatives, mainly related to the effects of rising interest rates upon liability hedges.
 
Risk mitigation programs continued to protect Allstate's portfolios as macro hedges against interest rate and equity market risk performed as expected during the fourth quarter.  Commercial real estate exposure was reduced by 8.7% or $1.2 billion of amortized cost since September 30, 2009, and 30.3% or $5.4 billion of amortized cost since December 31, 2008, primarily through targeted dispositions and principal repayments from borrowers.  Exposure to certain municipal fixed income securities was also reduced by $445 million of amortized cost during the fourth quarter of 2009 and $1.9 billion of amortized cost, or 8.0%, since December 31, 2008.
Allstate's Capital Position Continues to Improve
 
"Our proactive approach to risk management and return optimization continues to serve us well.  We improved our investment portfolio mix and produced strong operating results that enabled us to end the year with a strong capital position," said Don Civgin, senior vice president and chief financial officer.  "Our capital strength puts us in great shape to reinvest in our business to enhance growth and the customer experience."
 
Statutory surplus at December 31, 2009 was an estimated $14.9 billion for Allstate Insurance Company, including $3.4 billion at Allstate Life Insurance Company.  This is compared to statutory surplus of $13.0 billion for Allstate Insurance Company at December 31, 2008.  Reflected in the 2009 balances is a capital contribution of $448 million from Allstate Insurance Company to Allstate Life Insurance Company that occurred during the fourth quarter.  There were $3.1 billion in assets available at the holding company level at the end of 2009 to cover the company's relatively low annual fixed charges.
 
Book value per share was $30.84 at December 31, 2009 compared to $23.47 at December 31, 2008 and $32.29 at September 30, 2009.  The decline during the fourth quarter of 2009 was related to an increase in unrealized net capital loss, after adjusting for DAC and taxes.  The reduction in pre-tax unrealized net capital losses was more than offset by a decrease in the DAC adjustment due to updated assumptions for Allstate Financial fixed annuity investment performance.  The updated assumptions anticipate continued credit losses in certain asset classes within the portfolio in 2010 and 2011, primarily residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities.
 
Looking Forward
 
"We continued to build on the strength of our management team this year," said Wilson.  "Mark LaNeve joined us as chief marketing officer.  Joe Lacher replaced George Ruebenson as president, Allstate Protection, after George retired following a highly successful 39 year career.  Matt Winter became president and chief executive officer of Allstate Financial to enable us to realize the strategic potential of this business.
 
"In 2010, we'll deliver value to our shareholders by improving customer loyalty, reinventing protection and retirement for the consumer, and growing our businesses."
 
Visit to view additional information about Allstate's fourth quarter results, including a webcast of its quarterly conference call.  The conference call will be held at 9 a.m. ET on Thursday, February 11, 2010.
www.allstateinvestors.com
 
The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer.  Widely known through the "You're In Good Hands With Allstate
" slogan, Allstate is reinventing protection and to help more than 17 million households insure what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow.  Consumers access Allstate insurance products and services through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives in the U.S. and Canada, as well as via and 1-800 Allstate
retirement
www.allstate.com
.
 
 
 
 
 
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures
 
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following non-GAAP and operating financial measures.  Our methods for calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
 
Operating income
is net income (loss), excluding:
      
realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivative instruments, which are reported with realized capital gains and losses but included in operating income,
      
amortization of DAC and DSI, to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital gains and losses,
      
gain (loss) on disposition of operations, after-tax, and
      
adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years.
 
Net income (loss) is the GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to operating income.
 
We use operating income as an important measure to evaluate our results of operations.  We believe that the measure provides investors with a valuable measure of the company's ongoing performance because it reveals trends in our insurance and financial services business that may be obscured by the net effect of realized capital gains and losses, gain (loss) on disposition of operations and adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items.  Realized capital gains and losses and gain (loss) on disposition of operations may vary significantly between periods and are generally driven by business decisions and external economic developments such as capital market conditions, the timing of which is unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  Consistent with our intent to protect results or earn additional income, operating income includes periodic settlements and accruals on certain derivative instruments that are reported in realized capital gains and losses because they do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  These instruments are used for economic hedges and to replicate fixed income securities, and by including them in operating income, we are appropriately reflecting their trends in our performance and in a manner consistent with the economically hedged investments, product attributes (e.g., net investment income and interest credited to contractholder funds) or replicated investments.  Non-recurring items are excluded because, by their nature, they are not indicative of our business or economic trends.  Accordingly, operating income excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period and highlights the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our business.  A byproduct of excluding these items to determine operating income is the transparency and understanding of their significance to net income variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Operating income is used by management along with the other components of net income (loss) to assess our performance.  We use adjusted measures of operating income and operating income per diluted share in incentive compensation.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to evaluate net income (loss), operating income and their components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing and evaluating our performance.  We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the company and management's performance.We note that the price to earnings multiple commonly used by insurance investors as a forward-looking valuation technique uses operating income as the denominator.  Operating income should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.
 
 
The following tables reconcile operating income and net income (loss) for the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.
 
 
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates ("underlying combined ratio")
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between three GAAP operating ratios: the combined ratio, the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio and the effect of prior year reserve reestimates on the combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  These catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude, and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  Prior year reserve reestimates are caused by unexpected loss development on historical reserves.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  We also provide it to facilitate a comparison to our outlook on the 2009 combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  The combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of the combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates to the combined ratio is provided in the following table.
 
 
In this news release, we provide our outlook range on the 2010 combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  A reconciliation of this measure to the combined ratio is not possible on a forward-looking basis because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of catastrophes.  Future prior year reserve reestimates are expected to be zero because reserves are determined based on our best estimate of ultimate loss reserves as of the reporting date.
 
Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities,
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure.  It is calculated by dividing shareholders' equity after excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities and related DAC, DSI and life insurance reserves by total shares outstanding plus dilutive potential shares outstanding.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
We use the trend in book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, in conjunction with book value per share to identify and analyze the change in net worth attributable to management efforts between periods.  We believe the non-GAAP ratio is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and are generally driven by economic developments, primarily capital market conditions, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management, and we believe it enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers.  We note that book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, is a measure commonly used by insurance investors as a valuation technique.  Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, should not be considered as a substitute for book value per share, and does not reflect the recorded net worth of our business.  The following table shows the reconciliation.
 
 
Premiums written
is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period.  Premiums earned is a GAAP measure.  Premiums are considered earned and are included in financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period.  The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  A reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned is presented in the following table.
 
 
Premiums and deposits
is an operating measure that we use to analyze production trends for Allstate Financial sales.  It includes premiums on insurance policies and annuities and all deposits and other funds received from customers on deposit-type products including the net new deposits of Allstate Bank, which we account for under GAAP as increases to liabilities rather than as revenue.
 
The following table illustrates where premiums and deposits are reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
 
 
(1)
     
Life and annuity contract charges in the amount of $255 million and $250 million for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $989 million and $952 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which are also revenues recognized for GAAP, have been excluded from the table above, but are a component of the Consolidated Statements of Operations line item life and annuity premiums and contract charges.
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements about our outlook for the combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates for 2010.  These statements are subject to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections.  Actual results may differ materially from those projected based on the risk factors described below.
                  
Premiums written and premiums earned, the denominator of the underlying combined ratio, may be materially less than projected.  Policyholder attrition may be greater than anticipated resulting in a lower amount of insurance in force.
                  
Unanticipated increases in the severity or frequency of standard auto insurance claims may adversely affect our underwriting results.  Changes in the severity or frequency of claims may affect the profitability of our Allstate Protection segment.  Changes in bodily injury claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in the medical sector of the economy and litigation.  Changes in auto physical damage claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices.  The short-term level of claim frequency we experience may vary from period to period and may not be sustainable over the longer term.  A decline in gas prices, increase in miles driven, and higher unemployment are examples of factors leading to a short-term frequency change.  A significant long-term increase in claim frequency could have an adverse effect on our underwriting results.
We undertake no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statements.  This news release contains unaudited financial information.
# # # # #

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits included herein are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The results of operations for interim periods should not be considered indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
Measures used in these financial statements and exhibits that are not based on generally accepted accounting principles ("non-GAAP") and operating measures are denoted with an asterisk (*) the first time they appear.  These measures are defined on the page "Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures" and non-GAAP measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)     
Income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 includes expense of $254 million attributable to an increase in the valuation allowance relating to the deferred tax asset on capital losses recorded in the first quarter of 2009. This valuation allowance was released in connection with the adoption of new OTTI accounting guidance on April 1, 2009; however, the release was recorded as an increase to retained income and therefore did not reverse the amount recorded in income tax expense.
(2)     
As a result of the net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2009, September 30, 2008, December 31, 2008 and twelve months ended December 31, 2008, weighted average dilutive potential common shares outstanding resulting from stock options of 0.6 million, 1.2 million, 0.1 million and 1.3 million, respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share since inclusion of these securities would have an anti-dilutive effect. Accordingly, the sum of our income (loss) per share amounts for the quarters of 2009 and 2008 may not equal the year-to-date per share amount.
 
(3)     
As a result of the adoption of new earnings per share accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2009, prior period amounts have been restated.
 
1
 
 
 
(1)
     
As a result of the net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2009, September 30, 2008, December 31, 2008 and twelve months ended December 31, 2008, weighted average dilutive potential common shares outstanding resulting from stock options of 0.6 million, 1.2 million, 0.1 million and 1.3 million, respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share since inclusion of these securities would have an anti-dilutive effect.  Accordingly, the sum of our income (loss) per share amounts for the quarters of 2009 and 2008 may not equal the year-to-date per share amount.
 
(2)
     
As a result of the adoption of new earnings per share accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2009, prior period amounts have been restated.
2
 
 
 
(1)
 
 
For presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, service fees of the Corporate and Other segment are reclassified to Operating costs and expenses.
3
 
 
 
(1)
          
Reinsurance recoverables of unpaid losses related to Property-Liability were $2,139 million, $2,140 million, $2,162 million, $2,205 million and $2,275 million at December 31, 2009, September 30, 2009, June 30, 2009, March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.
4
 
5
 
 
(1)
               
Net income (loss) and operating income reflect a trailing twelve-month period.
(2)
               
Average shareholders' equity and average adjusted shareholders' equity are determined using a two-point average, with the beginning and ending shareholders' equity and adjusted shareholders' equity, respectively, for the twelve-month period as data points.
6
 
 
7
 
8
 
 
9
 
 
 
10
 
11
 
 
(1)     
Income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 includes expense of $112 million attributable to an increase in the valuation allowance relating to the deferred tax asset on capital losses recorded in the first quarter of 2009. This valuation allowance was released in connection with the adoption of new OTTI accounting guidance on April 1, 2009; however, the release was recorded as an increase to retained income and therefore did not reverse the amount recorded in income tax expense.
(2)     
The decline in the expense ratio in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008 includes a reduction in the net cost of benefits totaling $36 million and a write-off in the prior year period of capitalized software costs totaling $34 million.
12
13
14
15
 
16
 
 
 
17
 
 
(1)
   
Other includes commercial, condominium, renters, involuntary auto and other personal lines.
18
 
 
 
19
 
 
20
 
 
21
 
 
22
 
 
(1)
 
Measures presented for Allstate brand exclude the Company's Canadian operations. 
(2)
 
 Refer to the Allstate Brand Domestic Operating Measures and Statistics page for descriptions of these measures.
23
 
 
 
(1)  
Measures and statistics presented for Allstate brand exclude the Company's Canadian operations loan protection and specialty auto.
 
(2)  
Policies in Force:  Policy counts are based on items rather than customers.  A multi-car customer would generate multiple item (policy) counts, even if all cars were insured under one policy.
 
(3)  
New Issued Applications:  Item counts of automobiles or homeowners insurance applications for insurance policies that were issued during the period.  Does not include automobiles that are added by existing customers.
 
(4)  
Average Premium - Gross Written:  Gross premiums written divided by issued item count.  Gross premiums written include the impacts from discounts and surcharges; and exclude the impacts from mid-term premium adjustments, ceded reinsurance premiums, or premium refund accruals.  Average premiums represent the appropriate policy term for each line, which is 6 months for auto and 12 months for homeowners.
 
(5)
   Average Premium - Net Earned:  Earned premium divided by average policies in force for the period.  Earned premium includes the impacts from mid-term premium adjustments and ceded reinsurance, but does not include impacts of premium refund accruals.  Average premiums represent the appropriate policy term for each line, which is 6 months for auto and 12 months for homeowners.
 
(6)
   Renewal ratio:  Renewal policies issued during the period, based on contract effective dates, divided by the total policies issued 6 months prior for auto (12 months prior for Encompass brand standard auto) or 12 months prior for homeowners.
24
 
 
 
(1)
 Basis of Presentation
This homeowners supplemental information schedule displays financial results for the homeowners business (defined to include standard homeowners, scheduled personal property and other than primary residence lines) for the period 1992 through 2009.  The premiums and losses are presented on a GAAP basis with adjustments as indicated in Notes 3 and 4.  Each state in which the Company writes business has been categorized into one of two exposure groupings (Hurricane or Other).  Hurricane exposure states are comprised of those states in which hurricanes are the primary catastrophe exposure. However, the catastrophe losses for these states include losses due to other kinds of catastrophes.  A catastrophe is defined by Allstate as an event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess of $1 million, and involves multiple first party policyholders, or an event that produces a number of claims in excess of a preset per-event threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring within a certain amount of time following the event.
 
(2)
 Hurricane Exposure States
Hurricane exposure states include the following coastal locations:  Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia and Washington, D.C.
 
(3)
 Incurred Losses
Incurred losses (which include catastrophe losses) and Catastrophe losses, exclude the effects of those events for which the exposure is now covered, at least in part, by permanent industry reinsurance or insurance mechanism (i.e., Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF"), California Earthquake Authority) or with Hawaii hurricanes, coverage is being brokered to a non-affiliated insurance company.  Mechanisms such as the FHCF and external reinsurance are available and are reflected in our capital structure and help mitigate exposure to these types of events.  For the period 1992 - 2009, Incurred losses and Catastrophe losses for the Hurricane exposure states were adjusted to exclude $1.8 billion for losses related to Hurricane Andrew.  Incurred losses and Catastrophe losses for the Other catastrophe exposure states were adjusted to exclude an additional $1.8 billion for losses related to certain California earthquakes and Hawaii hurricanes.  Subsequent catastrophes of a similar magnitude are not excluded from the exhibit.  Through the use of the insurance mechanisms, Allstate may have a contingent liability for industry assessments and losses exceeding the claims paying capacity of these mechanisms as discussed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
(4)
 Earned Premiums
Earned premiums for the Hurricane exposure locations was adjusted to add back premium ceded to third party reinsurers of $178 million for hurricane reinsurance purchased in Florida, the Northeast and other states during the period 1992 to 2005.  These programs support management actions that address hurricane exposures.  Mechanisms such as the FHCF and external reinsurance are available and are reflected in our capital structure because they help mitigate exposure to these types of events, but no impact is reflected in earned premiums above.
 
(5)
 Premium Rate Changes
Represents the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during the year as a percentage of total prior year-end premiums written in those states.
25
 
 
 
(1)
             
The effect of Catastrophe losses on the combined ratio is presented excluding the effects of those events for which the exposure is now covered by an industry reinsurance or insurance mechanism (i.e., Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund and California Earthquake Authority) or with Hawaii hurricanes, coverage is being brokered to a non-affiliated insurance company (see the "Commitments, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities" footnote to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
 
(2)
             
The effect of Catastrophes and Catastrophes excluding extraordinary catastrophes on the Combined Ratio calculated as an average for all periods since 1992.
 
(3)
             
The years 1992-1994 have been adjusted to exclude the premiums earned of the PMI Group, a mortgage guarantee insurer that was sold in 1995.
 
26
 
 
 
 
 
(1)       
Prior quarter reserve reestimates of $148 million were primarily due to adverse frequency development on severe weather losses related to wind and hail events in Georgia and Alabama.
(2)       
Catastrophe claims and claims expense of $2.26 billion related to Hurricane Andrew of 1992 and $2.08 billion related to the Northridge earthquake of 1994, which were incurred prior to 1995, are excluded from the table above.
 
27
 
 
 
(1)      
Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
(2)      
Favorable reserve reestimates included in catastrophe losses totaled $30 million in the three months ended December 31, 2009.  There were no net reserve reestimates included in catastrophe losses in the three months ended December 31, 2008.  Favorable reserve reestimates included in catastrophe losses totaled $169 million in the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 compared to unfavorable reserve reestimates totaling $125 million in the twelve months ended December 31, 2008.
28
 
 
 
(1)
  Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
29
 
 
 
(2)
    Net reserves for claims and claims expense are net of expected reinsurance recoveries of $2.14 billion, $2.27 billion, $2.21 billion, $2.26 billion and $3.19 billion at December 31, 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
30
 
 
31
 
 
32
 
 
33
 
 
34
 
 
 
35
 
(3)
  
Benefit spread in the fourth quarter of 2009 was reduced by $22 million for non-recurring extra-contractual benefit costs.
36
 
 
 
 
 
37
 
 
38
 
 
39
 
 
40
 
 
 
 
(1)
      
Comparing percentages from period to period may be distorted by investment transactions such as sales, purchases and impairment write-downs.
(2)
      
The insurance reserves adjustment represents the amount by which the reserve balance would increase if the net unrealized gains in the applicable product portfolios were realized and reinvested at current lower interest rates, resulting in a premium deficiency.  Although we evaluate premium deficiencies on the combined performance of our life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies, the adjustment primarily relates to structured settlement annuities with life contingencies, in addition to annuity buy-outs and certain payout annuities with life contingencies.
(3)
      
The DAC and DSI adjustment balance represents the amount by which the amortization of DAC and DSI would increase or decrease if the unrealized gains or losses in the respective product portfolios were realized.  Only the unrealized net capital losses on the Allstate Financial fixed annuity and interest-sensitive life product portfolios are used in this calculation.  The DAC and DSI adjustment balance, subject to limitations, is determined by applying the DAC and DSI amortization rate to unrealized net capital gains or losses.  Recapitalization of the DAC and DSI balances is limited to the originally deferred costs plus interest.  The DAC adjustment balance (88% of the total DAC and DSI adjustment balance) was limited as of December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009 because the calculated amount, when added to the DAC balance before the impact of unrealized capital gains and losses, was greater than originally deferred costs plus interest.  The DSI adjustment balance was limited as of December 31, 2008, March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009.  In periods subsequent to the adjustment balance reaching the limitation, the change in the adjustment will not trend in a linear relationship with the change in unrealized gains and losses until such time as the adjustment balance is below the limitation.  The DAC and DSI adjustment balance is below the limitation as of December 31, 2009.  The limitation amount changes from period to period based on changes in the DAC and DSI balance before the impact of unrealized capital gains and losses, as well as new deferrals and interest.
41
 
 
(1)
                
Included in par value are zero-coupon securities that are generally purchased at a deep discount to the par value that is received at maturity.  These included corporate, municipal, foreign government, U.S. government and agencies and ABS zero-coupon securities with par value of $882 million, $8.19 billion, $1.42 billion, $792 million and $29 million, respectively.
(2)
                
Excluding the impact of zero-coupon securities, the percentage of amortized cost to par value would be 99.5% for corporates, 100.0% for municipals, 103.9% for foreign governments and 101.6% for U.S. government and agencies.  Similarly, excluding the impact of zero-coupon securities, the percentage of fair value to par value would be 100.4% for corporates, 99.5% for municipals, 108.8% for foreign governments and 102.7% for U.S. government and agencies.
42
 
 
43
 
 
 
 
44
 
45
 
 
 
46
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures
 
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following non-GAAP financial measures.  Our methods for calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss), excluding:
 - realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivative instruments, which are reported with realized capital gains and losses but included in operating income (loss),
 - amortization of DAC and deferred sales inducements ("DSI"), to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital gains and losses,
 - gain (loss) on disposition of operations, after-tax, and
 - adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years. 
 
Net income (loss) is the GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to operating income (loss).   We use operating income (loss) as an important measure to evaluate our results of operations.  We believe that the measure provides investors with a valuable measure of the Company's ongoing performance because it reveals trends in our insurance and financial services business that may be obscured by the net effect of realized capital gains and losses, gain (loss) on disposition of operations and adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items.  Realized capital gains and losses and gain (loss) on disposition of operations may vary significantly between periods and are generally driven by business decisions and external economic developments such as capital market conditions, the timing of which is unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.   Consistent with our intent to protect results or earn additional income, operating income (loss) includes periodic settlements and accruals on certain derivative instruments that are reported in realized capital gains and losses because they do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  These instruments are used for economic hedges and to replicate fixed income securities, and by including them in operating income (loss), we are appropriately reflecting their trends in our performance and in a manner consistent with the economically hedged investments, product attributes (e.g. net investment income and interest credited to contractholder funds) or replicated investments.  Non-recurring items are excluded because, by their nature, they are not indicative of our business or economic trends.  Accordingly, operating income (loss) excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period and highlights the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our business.  A byproduct of excluding these items to determine operating income (loss) is the transparency and understanding of their significance to net income variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Operating income (loss) is used by management along with the other components of net income (loss) to assess our performance.  We use adjusted measures of operating income (loss) and operating income (loss) per diluted share in incentive compensation.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to evaluate net income (loss), operating income (loss) and their components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing and evaluating our performance.   We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income (loss) results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the Company and management's performance.  We note that the price to earnings multiple commonly used by insurance investors as a forward-looking valuation technique uses operating income (loss) as the denominator.  Operating income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of operating income (loss) to net income (loss) is provided in the schedule, "Contribution to Income".
 
Underwriting income (loss)
is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expense ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP.  Management uses this measure in its evaluation of the results of operations to analyze the profitability of our Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results.  It is also an integral component of incentive compensation.  It is useful for investors to evaluate the components of income separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance.   Net income (loss) is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  Underwriting income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of Property-Liability underwriting income (loss) to net income (loss) is provided in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between two GAAP operating ratios:  the combined ratio and the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses.  These catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  The combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes to combined ratio is provided in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
  
 
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates ("underlying combined ratio")
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between three GAAP operating ratios: the combined ratio, the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratioand the effect of prior year reserve reestimates on the combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  These catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude, and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  Prior year reserve reestimates are caused by unexpected loss development on historical reserves.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  We also provide it to facilitate a comparison to our outlook on the 2009 combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  The combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of the combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates to combined ratio is provided in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Operating income return on equity
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure. It is calculated by dividing the rolling 12-month operating income by the average of shareholders' equity at the beginning and at the end of the 12-months, after excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses. Return on equity is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  We use operating income as the numerator for the same reasons we use operating income, as discussed above.  We use average shareholders' equity excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses for the denominator as a representation of shareholders' equity primarily attributable to the Company's earned and realized business operations because it eliminates the effect of items that are unrealized and vary significantly between periods due to external economic developments such as capital market conditions like changes in equity prices and interest rates, the amount and timing of which are unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  We use it to supplement our evaluation of net income and return on equity because it excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period.  We believe that this measure is useful to investors and that it provides a valuable tool for investors when considered along with net income return on equity because it eliminates the after-tax effects of realized and unrealized net capital gains and losses that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and that are driven by economic developments, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management.  In addition, it eliminates non-recurring items that are not indicative of our ongoing business or economic trends. A byproduct of excluding the items noted above to determine operating income return on equity from return on equity is the transparency and understanding of their significance to return on equity variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to have operating income return on equity and return on equity when evaluating our performance.  We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income return on equity results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the company and management's utilization of capital.  Operating income return on equity should not be considered as a substitute for return on equity and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of return on equity and operating income return on equity can be found in the schedule, "Return on Equity".
 
 
Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities,
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure.  It is calculated by dividing shareholders' equity after excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities and related DAC, DSI and life insurance reserves by total shares outstanding plus dilutive potential shares outstanding.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  We use the trend in book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities in conjunction with book value per share to identify and analyze the change in net worth attributable to management efforts between periods.  We believe the non-GAAP ratio is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and are generally driven by economic developments, primarily capital market conditions, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management, and we believe it enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers.  We note that book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, is a measure commonly used by insurance investors as a valuation technique.  Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, should not be considered as a substitute for book value per share, and does not reflect the recorded net worth of our business.  A reconciliation of book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains on fixed income securities, and book value per share can be found in the schedule, "Book Value per Share".
 
Operating Measures
 
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following operating financial measures.  Our method for calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
 
Premiums written
is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period.  Premiums earned is a GAAP measure.  Premiums are considered earned and are included in financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period.  The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  A reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned is presented in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Premiums and deposits
is an operating measure that we use to analyze production trends for Allstate Financial sales.  It includes premiums on insurance policies and annuities and all deposits and other funds received from customers on deposit-type products including the net new deposits of Allstate Bank, which we account for under GAAP as increases to liabilities rather than as revenue.  An illustration of where premiums and deposits are reflected in the consolidated financial statements is included in the schedule, "Allstate Financial Results".
 
Definitions of GAAP Operating Ratios and Impacts of Specific Items on the GAAP Operating Ratios
 
We use the following operating ratios to measure the profitability of our Property-Liability results.  We believe that they enhance an investor's understanding of our profitability.  They are calculated as follows:
 
Claims and claims expense ("loss") ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe losses.
 
Expense ratio
is the ratio of amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
 
Combined ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense, amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.  The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio.  The difference between 100% and the combined ratio represents underwriting income (loss) as a percentage of premiums earned.
 
Effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on combined ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense and other costs and expenses in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment to Property-Liability premiums earned.  The sum of the effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on the combined ratio and the Allstate Protection combined ratio is equal to the Property-Liability combined ratio.
 
Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio
is the percentage of catastrophe losses included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses. 
 
Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on combined ratio
is the percentage of prior year reserve reestimates included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.
 
Effect of pre-tax reserve reestimates on combined ratio
is the percentage of prior year reserve reestimates included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses. 
 
Effect of restructuring and related charges on combined ratio
is the percentage of restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
47


