FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20110427161401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 2.  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02.             Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 27, 2011, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2011, and the availability of the registrant's first quarter investor supplement on the registrant's web site.  The press release and the investor supplement are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report.  The information contained in the press release and the investor supplement are furnished and not filed pursuant to instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
Section 9.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
Registrant's press release dated April 27, 2011
99.1
                                               
First quarter 2011 Investor Supplement of The Allstate Corporation
99.2
                                               
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NORTHBROOK, Ill., April 27, 2011  The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) today reported financial results for the first quarter of 2011:
 
 
NM = not meaningful
* Measures used in this release that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("non-GAAP") are defined and reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure and operating measures are defined in the "Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures" section of this document.
 
 
"Allstate made continued progress on improving returns and also benefited from lower catastrophe losses in the first quarter," said Thomas J. Wilson, chairman, president and chief executive officer of The Allstate Corporation.  "Operating income improved by 32.5% to $497 million and the underlying combined ratio for Property-Liability of 89.9 was within our 88 to 91 outlook range for the year.  Our marketing programs continue to be successful with an 11.9% increase in standard auto new business, although policies in force declined by 0.7% when compared to the prior year first quarter as we took actions to improve profitability in several large states.
 
"Allstate Financial continued to improve returns and build a strategic base for profitable growth," continued Wilson.  "Investment results were strong as we execute a strategy to optimize operating income while managing interest rate exposure from the fixed income portfolio.  Net income increased to $519 million from $120 million, due to net capital gains in the first quarter versus net capital losses in the first quarter of last year.  As a result, book value per share was 13.2% higher than March 31, 2010.
 
"We also made progress on our longer-term goals of focusing on the customer, competitively differentiating our value proposition and raising returns in the homeowners and fixed annuity businesses.  Last week we celebrated Allstate's 80
th
 anniversary as an insurer.  Our strategies and strong operational execution will enable us to further build on this legacy of serving customers and delivering returns for shareholders," concluded Wilson.
 
Property-Liability Profitability Improved, Underlying Combined Ratio Within Full-Year Outlook
 
Allstate's combined ratio for the first quarter of 2011 was 94.9, compared to 98.9 in the first quarter of 2010, primarily due to lower catastrophe losses.  Catastrophe losses totaled $333 million in the first quarter of 2011, adding 5.2 points to the combined ratio, which was significantly lower than first quarter 2010 catastrophe losses of $648 million.  The Property-Liability business produced an underlying combined ratio of 89.9 during the first quarter of 2011 compared to 89.1 in the first quarter of 2010.  The first quarter ratio was within the full-year 2011 outlook range for the underlying combined ratio of 88 to 91.
 
The Allstate brand standard auto business continued to generate high returns, but has not grown as the company balanced profitability with growth.  Standard auto premiums written declined 1.0% for the first quarter of 2011 compared to the prior year first quarter, reflecting lower average premiums and declining policies in force.  Average premiums decreased 0.9% in the first quarter of 2011 compared to the first quarter of 2010, reflecting rate decreases taken during 2010 and customers electing lower coverage.  Policies in force declined by 0.7% as lower customer renewals more than offset an 11.9% increase in applications issued.  Allstate brand standard auto combined ratio was 95.1, which generates an attractive return on capital.  The combined ratio increased 0.7 points from the first quarter of 2010 as
Allstate continued to address adverse loss cost trends during the first quarter, particularly in the states of New York and Florida.
 
Continued progress was made on improving returns in the homeowners line.  Allstate brand homeowners premiums written increased 3.0% in the first quarter of 2011 compared to the same period a year ago, as a 5.9% increase in average premium was partly offset by a 3.7% decline in policies in force. 
Rate increases averaging 9.9% were approved in 12 states during the quarter, as Allstate continued to take actions to improve homeowners profitability.  Lower catastrophe losses resulted in an Allstate brand homeowners combined ratio of 91.4 in the first quarter of 2011 compared to 111.3 in the first quarter a year ago.
 
Allstate Financial Continued to Advance Its Strategy
 
Allstate Financial continued to stabilize profitability, reduce concentrations in investment spread products and focus on Allstate's core markets.  Allstate Financial's focus contributed to earnings growth in Allstate Benefits (the worksite distribution channel) and sales momentum in the Allstate Agency channel.  Consistent with this strategy, premiums and contract charges increased 4.6% during the first quarter of 2011 when compared to the first quarter of 2010.
 
Allstate Financial operating income was $116 million in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $139 million in the prior year first quarter.  The annual unlocking of assumptions had an unfavorable impact on operating income of $8 million, after-tax, compared to a favorable impact of $26 million, after-tax, in the prior year first quarter.  Excluding the impact of the unlocking, Allstate Financial had strong operating results with an increase in operating income of $11 million when compared to the prior year first quarter.  The benefit spread increased 9.2% from the 2010 first quarter due to higher profitability and growth related to Allstate Benefits' accident and health insurance business, and increased contract charges for interest-sensitive life.
 
Net income improved to $97 million in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $4 million in the first quarter of 2010.  The improvement was due to net realized capital gains in the first quarter versus net realized capital losses last year, partly offset by higher deferred acquisition and sales inducement costs and a loss on the planned exit from the consumer banking business totaling $16 million, after-tax.  Costs related to the annual unlocking of assumptions resulted in an unfavorable charge to net income of $7 million, after-tax, in the first quarter of 2011 compared to a favorable credit of $8 million, after-tax, in the first quarter of 2010.
 
Allstate's Investment Portfolio Yields Stabilized and Generated Solid Returns
 
Proactive management of risk and return in the investment portfolio stabilized yields and generated solid results.  The municipal bond portfolio continued to be reduced, although the decline slowed substantially.  The
fixed income maturity profile is also being reshaped to optimize returns and manage risk given a steep and potentially changing interest rate curve.  In addition, the interest rate and equity macro hedge programs were not extended given the strength of Allstate's capital position.
 
Net investment income was $982 million for the first quarter of 2011, a 6.5% decline from the first quarter of 2010, with approximately two-thirds caused by expected reductions in the size of Allstate Financial's portfolio reflecting the strategy to reduce concentrations in spread-based products.  The remaining decline in investment income was caused by lower yields in the Property-Liability portfolio.  Compared to the fourth quarter of 2010, a 1.6% decrease in net investment income resulted primarily from reductions in Allstate Financial's portfolio, while investment yields remained stable.
 
Net realized capital gains for the first quarter of 2011 were $96 million, pre-tax, compared to a net realized capital loss of $348 million, pre-tax, in the first quarter of 2010. The components of the first quarter 2011 improvement, when compared to the first quarter of 2010, were higher net realized gains on sales of $283 million compared to $88 million, reduced derivative losses of $67 million compared to $185 million, lower impairment write-downs of $114 million compared to $223 million, and increased valuation gains on limited partnerships of $63 million compared to $4 million.  Impairment write-downs continued on a favorable trend with the lowest recorded amount since the third quarter of 2007.  The derivatives that were terminated due to not extending the macro hedge programs had a realized capital loss of $62 million in the first quarter of 2011.
 
Allstate's consolidated investment portfolio totaled $99.6 billion at March 31, 2011 compared to $100.5 billion at December 31, 2010, as expected reductions in the Allstate Financial portfolio more than offset strong investment returns and operating cash flows.  The net unrealized capital gains totaled $1.6 billion, pre-tax, at March 31, 2011 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2010.
 
Book Value Per Share Increased 3.4%; Repurchases Totaled $300 Million
 
"Book value per share increased 3.4% during the first quarter due to strong operating results, an improved investment value and an aggressive share repurchase program," said Don Civgin, executive vice president and chief financial officer.  "Book value per share totaled $36.51 at March 31, 2011 compared to $35.32 at December 31, 2010 and $32.26 at March 31, 2010.  We repurchased $300 million of our stock in the first quarter, leaving $540 million remaining on the $1 billion share repurchase program."
Visit to view additional information about Allstate's first quarter results, including a webcast of its quarterly conference call and the presentation discussed on the call.  The conference call will be held at 9 a.m. ET on Thursday, April 28, 2011.
www.allstateinvestors.com
 
The Allstate Corporation
(NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer known for its "You're In Good Hands With Allstate
" slogan.  Now celebrating its 80
th
 anniversary as an insurer, Allstate is reinventing protection and retirement to help nearly 16 million households insure what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow.  Consumers access Allstate insurance products (auto, home, life and retirement) and services through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives in the U.S. and Canada, as well as via and 1-800 Allstate
www.allstate.com
.
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures
 
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following non-GAAP and operating financial measures.  Our methods for calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss), excluding:
      
realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivative instruments, which are reported with realized capital gains and losses but included in operating income (loss),
      
valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, after-tax,
      
amortization of DAC and DSI, to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital gains and losses or valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged,
      
gain (loss) on disposition of operations, after-tax, and
      
adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years.
 
Net income (loss) is the GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to operating income (loss).
 
We use operating income (loss) as an important measure to evaluate our results of operations.  We believe that the measure provides investors with a valuable measure of the company's ongoing performance because it reveals trends in our insurance and financial services business that may be obscured by the net effect of realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, gain (loss) on disposition of operations and adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items.  Realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged and gain (loss) on disposition of operations may vary significantly between periods and are generally driven by business decisions and external economic developments such as capital market conditions, the timing of which is unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  Consistent with our intent to protect results or earn additional income, operating income (loss) includes periodic settlements and accruals on certain derivative instruments that are reported in realized capital gains and losses because they do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  These instruments are used for economic hedges and to replicate fixed income securities, and by including them in operating income (loss), we are appropriately reflecting their trends in our performance and in a manner consistent with the economically hedged investments, product attributes (e.g., net investment income and interest credited to contractholder funds) or replicated investments.  Non-recurring items are excluded because, by their nature, they are not indicative of our business or economic trends.  Accordingly, operating income (loss) excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period and highlights the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our business.  A byproduct of excluding these items to determine operating income is the transparency and understanding of their significance to net income variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Operating income (loss) is used by management along with the other components of net income (loss) to assess our performance.  We use adjusted measures of operating income (loss) and operating income (loss) per diluted share in incentive compensation.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to evaluate net income (loss), operating income (loss) and their components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing and evaluating our performance.  We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the company and management's performance.We note that the price to earnings multiple commonly used by insurance investors as a forward-looking valuation technique uses operating income (loss) as the denominator.  Operating income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.
 
 
The following table reconciles operating income and net income for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
Underwriting income (loss)
is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expense ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP.  Management uses this measure in its evaluation of the results of operations to analyze the profitability of our Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results.  It is also an integral component of incentive compensation.  It is useful for investors to evaluate the components of income separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance.   Net income (loss) is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  Underwriting income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of Property-Liability underwriting income (loss) to net income (loss) is provided in the "Segment Results" page.
 
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates ("underlying combined ratio")
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between three GAAP operating ratios: the combined ratio, the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio and the effect of prior year non-catastrophe reserve reestimates on the combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  These catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude, and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  Prior year reserve reestimates are caused by unexpected loss development on historical reserves.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  We also provide it to facilitate a comparison to our outlook on the combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  The combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of the combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates to the combined ratio is provided in the following table.
 
 
In this news release, we provide our outlook range on the 2011 combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  A reconciliation of this measure to the combined ratio is not possible on a forward-looking basis because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of catastrophes.  Future prior year reserve reestimates are expected to be zero because reserves are determined based on our best estimate of ultimate loss reserves as of the reporting date.
 
Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities,
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure.  It is calculated by dividing shareholders' equity after excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities and related DAC, DSI and life insurance reserves by total shares outstanding plus dilutive potential shares outstanding.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
 
We use the trend in book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, in conjunction with book value per share to identify and analyze the change in net worth attributable to management efforts between periods.  We believe the non-GAAP ratio is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and are generally driven by economic developments, primarily capital market conditions, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management, and we believe it enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers.  We note that book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, is a measure commonly used by insurance investors as a valuation technique.  Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, should not be considered as a substitute for book value per share, and does not reflect the recorded net worth of our business.  The following table shows the reconciliation.
 
Premiums written
is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period.  Premiums earned is a GAAP measure.  Premiums are considered earned and are included in financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period.  The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  A reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned is presented in the following table.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This news release contains forward-looking statements about our outlook for the combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates for 2011.  These statements are subject to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections.  Actual results may differ materially from those projected based on the risk factors described below.
                  
Premiums written and premiums earned, the denominator of the underlying combined ratio, may be materially less than projected.  Policyholder attrition may be greater than anticipated resulting in a lower amount of insurance in force.
                  
Unanticipated increases in the severity or frequency of standard auto insurance claims may adversely affect our underwriting results.  Changes in the severity or frequency of claims may affect the profitability of our Allstate Protection segment.  Changes in bodily injury claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in the medical sector of the economy and litigation.  Changes in auto physical damage claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices.  The short-term level of claim frequency we experience may vary from period to period and may not be sustainable over the longer term.  A decline in gas prices, increase in miles driven, and higher unemployment are examples of factors leading to a short-term frequency change.  A significant long-term increase in claim frequency could have an adverse effect on our underwriting results.
We undertake no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statements.  This news release contains unaudited financial information.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits included herein are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  The results of operations for interim periods should not be considered indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
 
Measures used in these financial statements and exhibits that are not based on generally accepted accounting principles ("non-GAAP") and operating measures are denoted with an asterisk (*) the first time they appear.  These measures are defined on the page "Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures" and non-GAAP measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
    In accordance with GAAP, the quarter and year-to-date per share amounts are calculated discretely.  Therefore, the sum of each quarter may not equal the year-to-date amount.
1
 
 
 
(1)
        
In accordance with GAAP, the quarter and year-to-date per share amounts are calculated discretely.  Therefore, the sum of each quarter may not equal the year-to-date amount.
2
 
 
 
(1)
           
For presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, service fees of the Corporate and Other segment are reclassified to Operating costs and expenses.
3
 
 
 
(1)
           
Reinsurance recoverables of unpaid losses related to Property-Liability were $2,134 million, $2,072 million, $2,095 million, $2,176 million and $2,162 million as of March 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, September 30, 2010, June 30, 2010 and March 31, 2010, respectively.
4
 
 
5
 
 
 
(1)
           
Net income and operating income reflect a trailing twelve-month period.
(2)
           
Average shareholders' equity and average adjusted shareholders' equity are determined using a two-point average, with the beginning and ending shareholders' equity and adjusted shareholders' equity, respectively, for the twelve-month period as data points.
6
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
10
 
 
11
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
(1)
     Other personal lines includes commercial, condominium, renters, involuntary auto and other personal lines.
(2)
     Ratios are calculated using the premiums earned for the respective line of business.
13
 
 
 
(1)
  
Other personal lines includes commercial, condominium, renters, involuntary auto and other personal lines.
14
 
 
 
(1)
               
Rate changes include changes approved based on our net cost of reinsurance.  These rate changes do not reflect initial rates filed for insurance subsidiaries initially writing business.  Based on historical premiums written in those states, rate changes approved for the three month period ending March 31, 2011 are estimated to total $320 million.  Rate changes do not include rating plan enhancements, including the introduction of discounts and surcharges, that result in no change in the overall rate level in the state.
(2)
               
Impacts of Allstate brand standard auto effective rate changes as a percentage of total countrywide prior year-end premiums written were 1.4%, 0.6%, 0.2%, (0.1)%, 1.5%, 1.6%, 0.5% and 0.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, September 30, 2010, June 30, 2010, March 31, 2010, December 31, 2009, September 30, 2009 and June 30, 2009, respectively.
(3)
               
Impacts of Allstate brand homeowners effective rate changes as a percentage of total countrywide prior year-end premiums written were 2.9%, 2.5% 1.0%, 1.7%, 1.5%, 1.5%, 2.4% and 1.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, September 30, 2010, June 30, 2010, March 31, 2010, December 31, 2009, September 30, 2009 and June 30, 2009, respectively.
(4)
               
Represents the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during the year as a percentage of total countrywide prior year-end premiums written.
(5)
               
Represents the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during the year as a percentage of its respective total prior year-end premiums written in those states.
(6)
               
Includes Washington, D.C.
(7)
               
Includes targeted rate decreases in certain markets to improve our competitive position for target customers (multi-car residence owners).
(8)
               
Includes the impact of a 20.9% and 2.3% rate increase in Florida and a 12.0% rate increase in New York in the first quarter of 2011.
15
 
 
 
 
16
 
(1)
     
Measures and statistics presented for Allstate brand exclude the Company's Canadian operations and specialty auto.
(2)
     
Refer to the Allstate Brand Domestic Operating Measures and Statistics page for descriptions of these measures.
 
17
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
19
 
(1)
      
Measures and statistics presented for Allstate brand exclude the Company's Canadian operations, loan protection and specialty auto.
(2)
      
Policies in Force:  Policy counts are based on items rather than customers.  A multi-car customer would generate multiple item (policy) counts, even if all cars were insured under one policy.
(3)
      
New Issued Applications:  Item counts of automobiles or homeowners insurance applications for insurance policies that were issued during the period.  Does not include automobiles that are added by existing customers.
(4)
      
Average Premium - Gross Written:  Gross premiums written divided by issued item count.  Gross premiums written include the impacts from discounts and surcharges; and exclude the impacts from mid-term premium adjustments, ceded reinsurance premiums, and premium refund accruals.  Average premiums represent the appropriate policy term for each line, which is 6 months for auto and 12 months for homeowners.
(5)
      
Average Premium - Net Earned:  Earned premium divided by average policies in force for the period.  Earned premium includes the impacts from mid-term premium adjustments and ceded reinsurance, but does not include impacts of premium refund accruals.  Average premiums represent the appropriate policy term for each line, which is 6 months for auto and 12 months for homeowners.
(6) 
  
Renewal ratio:  Renewal policies issued during the period, based on contract effective dates, divided by the total policies issued 6 months prior for auto (12 months prior for Encompass brand standard auto) or 12 months prior for homeowners.
20
 
 
(1) 
Basis of Presentation
This homeowners supplemental information schedule displays financial results for the homeowners business (defined to include standard homeowners, scheduled personal property and other than primary residence lines) for the period 1992 through 2011.  The premiums and losses are presented on a GAAP basis with adjustments as indicated in Notes 3 and 4.  Each state in which the Company writes business has been categorized into one of two exposure groupings (Hurricane or Other).   Hurricane exposure states are comprised of those states in which hurricanes are the primary catastrophe exposure. However, the catastrophe losses for these states include losses due to other kinds of catastrophes.  A catastrophe is defined by Allstate as an event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess of $1  million, and involves multiple first party policyholders, or an event that produces a number of claims in excess of a preset per-event threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring within a certain amount of time following the event.
(2) 
Hurricane Exposure States
Hurricane exposure states include the following coastal locations:  Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia and Washington, D.C.
(3) 
Incurred Losses
Incurred losses (which include catastrophe losses) and Catastrophe losses, exclude the effects of those events for which the exposure is now covered, at least in part, by permanent industry reinsurance or insurance mechanism (i.e., Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF"), California Earthquake Authority) or with Hawaii hurricanes, coverage is being brokered to a non-affiliated insurance company.  Mechanisms such as the FHCF and external reinsurance are available and are reflected in our capital structure and help mitigate exposure to these types of events.   For the period 1992 - 2010, Incurred losses and Catastrophe losses for the Hurricane exposure states were adjusted to exclude $1.8 billion for losses related to Hurricane Andrew.  Incurred losses and Catastrophe losses for the Other catastrophe exposure states were adjusted to exclude an additional $1.8 billion for losses related to certain California earthquakes and Hawaii hurricanes.  Subsequent catastrophes of a similar magnitude are not excluded from the exhibit.  Through the use of the insurance mechanisms, Allstate may have a contingent liability for industry assessments and losses exceeding the claims paying capacity of these mechanisms as discussed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(4) 
Earned Premiums
Earned premiums for the Hurricane exposure locations was adjusted to add back premium ceded to third party reinsurers of $178 million for hurricane reinsurance purchased in Florida, the Northeast and other states during the period 1992 to 2005.  These programs support management actions that address hurricane exposures.  Mechanisms such as the FHCF and external reinsurance are available and are reflected in our capital structure because they help mitigate exposure to these types of events, but no impact is reflected in earned premiums above.
(5) 
Premium Rate Changes
Represents the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during the year as a percentage of total prior year-end premiums written in those states.
21
 
 
 
 
(1)
           
The effect of Catastrophe losses on the combined ratio is presented excluding the effects of those events for which the exposure is now covered by an industry reinsurance or insurance mechanism (i.e., Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund and California Earthquake Authority) or with Hawaii hurricanes, coverage is being brokered to a non-affiliated insurance company (see the "Commitments, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities" footnote to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
(2)
           
The effect of Catastrophes and Catastrophes excluding extraordinary catastrophes on the Combined Ratio calculated as an average for all periods since 1992.
(3)
           
The years 1992-1994 have been adjusted to exclude the premiums earned of the PMI Group, a mortgage guarantee insurer that was sold in 1995.
22
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
24
 
 
 
 
 
 
25
 
 
26
 
 
 
27
 
28
 
 
29
30
31
 
 
32
 
 
33
 
 
 
34
 
 
 
35
 
 
36
 
 
 
37
 
 
 
38
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures
 
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following non-GAAP financial measures.  Our methods for calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss), excluding:
- realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivative instruments, which are reported with realized capital gains and losses but included in operating income (loss),
- valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, after-tax
- amortization of deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") and deferred sales inducements ("DSI"), to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital gains and losses or valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged,
- gain (loss) on disposition of operations, after-tax, and
- adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years.
 
Net income (loss) is the GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to operating income (loss).   We use operating income (loss) as an important measure to evaluate our results of operations.  We believe that the measure provides investors with a valuable measure of the Company's ongoing performance because it reveals trends in our insurance and financial services business that may be obscured by the net effect of realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, gain (loss) on disposition of operations and adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items.  Realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged and gain (loss) on disposition of operations may vary significantly between periods and are generally driven by business decisions and external economic developments such as capital market conditions, the timing of which is unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  Consistent with our intent to protect results or earn additional income, operating income (loss) includes periodic settlements and accruals on certain derivative instruments that are reported in realized capital gains and losses because they do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  These instruments are used for economic hedges and to replicate fixed income securities, and by including them in operating income (loss), we are appropriately reflecting their trends in our performance and in a manner consistent with the economically hedged investments, product attributes (e.g. net investment income and interest credited to contractholder funds) or replicated investments.  Non-recurring items are excluded because, by their nature, they are not indicative of our business or economic trends.  Accordingly, operating income (loss) excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period and highlights the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our business.  A byproduct of excluding these items to determine operating income (loss) is the transparency and understanding of their significance to net income variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Operating income (loss) is used by management along with the other components of net income (loss) to assess our performance.  We use adjusted measures of operating income (loss) and operating income (loss) per diluted share in incentive compensation.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to evaluate net income (loss), operating income (loss) and their components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing and evaluating our performance. We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income (loss) results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the Company and management's performance.  We note that the price to earnings multiple commonly used by insurance investors as a forward-looking valuation technique uses operating income (loss) as the denominator. Operating income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of operating income (loss) to net income (loss) is provided in the schedule, "Contribution to Income".
 
Underwriting income (loss)
is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expense ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP.  Management uses this measure in its evaluation of the results of operations to analyze the profitability of our Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results.  It is also an integral component of incentive compensation.  It is useful for investors to evaluate the components of income separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance.   Net income (loss) is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  Underwriting income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of Property-Liability underwriting income (loss) to net income (loss) is provided in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between two GAAP operating ratios:  the combined ratio and the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses.  These catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  The combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes to combined ratio is provided in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates ("underlying combined ratio")
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between three GAAP operating ratios: the combined ratio, the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio and the effect of prior year reserve reestimates on the combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  These catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude, and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  Prior year reserve reestimates are caused by unexpected loss development on historical reserves.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  We also provide it to facilitate a comparison to our outlook on the combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  The combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of the combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates to combined ratio is provided in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Operating income return on shareholders' equity
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure. It is calculated by dividing the rolling 12-month operating income by the average of shareholders' equity at the beginning and at the end of the 12-months, after excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses.  Return on shareholders' equity is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  We use operating income as the numerator for the same reasons we use operating income, as discussed above.  We use average shareholders' equity excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses for the denominator as a representation of shareholders' equity primarily attributable to the Company's earned and realized business operations because it eliminates the effect of items that are unrealized and vary significantly between periods due to external economic developments such as capital market conditions like changes in equity prices and interest rates, the amount and timing of which are unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  We use it to supplement our evaluation of net income and return on shareholders' equity because it excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period.  We believe that this measure is useful to investors and that it provides a valuable tool for investors when considered along with net income return on shareholders' equity because it eliminates the after-tax effects of realized and unrealized net capital gains and losses that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and that are driven by economic developments, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management.  In addition, it eliminates non-recurring items that are not indicative of our ongoing business or economic trends. A byproduct of excluding the items noted above to determine operating income return on shareholders' equity from return on shareholders' equity is the transparency and understanding of their significance to return on shareholders' equity variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to have operating income return on shareholders' equity and return on shareholders' equity when evaluating our performance.  We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income return on shareholders' equity results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the company and management's utilization of capital.  Operating income return on shareholders' equity should not be considered as a substitute for return on shareholders' equity and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of return on shareholders' equity and operating income return on shareholders' equity can be found in the schedule, "Return on Shareholders' Equity".
 
Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities,
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure.  It is calculated by dividing shareholders' equity after excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities and related DAC, DSI and life insurance reserves by total shares outstanding plus dilutive potential shares outstanding.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  We use the trend in book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities in conjunction with book value per share to identify and analyze the change in net worth attributable to management efforts between periods.  We believe the non-GAAP ratio is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and are generally driven by economic developments, primarily capital market conditions, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management, and we believe it enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers.  We note that book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, is a measure commonly used by insurance investors as a valuation technique.  Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, should not be considered as a substitute for book value per share, and does not reflect the recorded net worth of our business.  A reconciliation of book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains on fixed income securities, and book value per share can be found in the schedule, "Book Value per Share".
 
Operating Measures
 
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following operating financial measures.  Our method for calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
 
Premiums written
is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period.  Premiums earned is a GAAP measure.  Premiums are considered earned and are included in financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period.  The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  A reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned is presented in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Definitions of GAAP Operating Ratios and Impacts of Specific Items on the GAAP Operating Ratios
 
We use the following operating ratios to measure the profitability of our Property-Liability results.  We believe that they enhance an investor's understanding of our profitability.  They are calculated as follows:
 
Claims and claims expense ("loss") ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe losses.
 
Expense ratio
is the ratio of amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
 
Combined ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense, amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.  The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio.  The difference between 100% and the combined ratio represents underwriting income (loss) as a percentage of premiums earned or underwriting margin.
 
Effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on combined ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense and other costs and expenses in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment to Property-Liability premiums earned.  The sum of the effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on the combined ratio and the Allstate Protection combined ratio is equal to the Property-Liability combined ratio.
 
Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio
is the percentage of catastrophe losses included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.
 
Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on combined ratio
is the percentage of prior year reserve reestimates included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.
 
Effect of pre-tax reserve reestimates on combined ratio
is the percentage of prior year reserve reestimates included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.
 
Effect of restructuring and related charges on combined ratio
is the percentage of restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
39


