FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20110718080610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
 
 
On July 18, 2011, the Registrant issued a press release announcing the departure from the Registrant of Joseph P. Lacher, Jr., President of Allstate Protection, effective July 17, 2011.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this report.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: July 18, 2011
 
3
 

 
 
 
NEWS
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
ALL) today announced that Joseph Lacher, president, Allstate Protection is leaving the company, effective immediately.
July 18, 2011  The Allstate Corporation (NYSE:
NORTHBROOK, Ill.,
 
Until new leadership is in place, the presidents of the various Allstate Protection businesses, and the heads of claims and product operations, will report to Thomas J. Wilson, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
(NYSE: ALL) is the nations largest publicly held personal lines insurer known for its Youre In Good Hands With Allstate slogan. Now celebrating its 80th anniversary as an insurer, Allstate is reinventing protection and retirement to help nearly 16 million households insure what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow. Consumers access Allstate insurance products (auto, home, life and retirement) and services through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives in the U.S. and Canada, as well as via and 1-800 Allstate.
The Allstate Corporation
www.allstate.com
 


