FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20110801060258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Section 2.  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02.             Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 1, 2011, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2011, and the availability of the registrant's second quarter investor supplement on the registrant's web site.  The press release and the investor supplement are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report.  The information contained in the press release and the investor supplement are furnished and not filed pursuant to instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
Section 9.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01.             Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
NORTHBROOK, Ill., August 1, 2011  The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) today reported financial results for the second quarter of 2011:
 
 
While underlying profitability improved across the company's business lines this quarter, those gains were more than offset by $2.3 billion in record second quarter catastrophe losses.
 
"Our key profitability benchmark continued to improve," said Thomas J. Wilson, chairman, president and chief executive officer of The Allstate Corporation, noting that the company's underlying Property-Liability combined ratio stood at 88.7 for the first six months of 2011, well within Allstate's full-year guidance range of 88 to 91.  "We also advanced our strategy of broadening our profitable protection relationships by offering differentiated products tailored to the needs of specific customer segments."  However, as anticipated, profit improvement actions in New York and Florida continued to impact growth in auto policies.  Allstate Protection's policies in force declined slightly when compared to the prior year quarter, as a 0.6% reduction in Allstate brand standard auto and a 3.9% reduction in homeowners were only partially offset by increases in specialty lines and Canada.
 
"We made substantial progress improving returns at Allstate Financial," said Wilson.  Allstate Financial second quarter operating income grew 12.8% versus the same period a year ago. Proactive management of the consolidated investment portfolio was also reflected in total portfolio returns, which benefitted from increased investment yields, realized capital gains, and a $2.1 billion increase in pre-tax net unrealized capital gains from June 30, 2010.
 
"We will continue to make progress on our commitment to shareholders to improve overall returns.  I'm confident the actions we took during the quarter, including our pending acquisition of Esurance and Answer Financial, position us well for our longer-term focus of delivering unique value propositions to each customer segment and improving shareholder value," Wilson said.
 
Property-Liability Impacted by Record Second Quarter Catastrophe Losses, Underlying Profitability Improved
 
Allstate's combined ratio for the second quarter of 2011 was 123.3, reflecting the previously reported catastrophe losses of $2.3 billion, or 36.2 points.  During the period, Allstate experienced 33 catastrophe loss events including five tornadoes, three wildfires and 25 wind/hailstorms.  Excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates, the Property-Liability underlying combined ratio was 87.5 during the second quarter of 2011 compared to 88.1 in the second quarter of 2010, reflecting lower claims frequency.
 
Allstate brand standard auto policies continued to decline during the second quarter of 2011, consistent with the company's expectation, as growth was balanced with a focus on maintaining auto profitability.  Premiums written* declined 0.9% for the second quarter of 2011 compared to the prior year second quarter, reflecting declining policies in force and lower average premiums.  Policies in force declined by 0.6% compared to the second quarter of 2010, as the level of new policies issued was not sufficient to make up for policies not renewed.  New issued applications declined 5.2% in the quarter when compared to the prior year quarter, while retention improved to 89.2 from 89.0 in the second quarter of last year.  Average gross premium decreased 0.5% in the second quarter of 2011 when compared to the second quarter of 2010, in part due to customers electing lower coverage options.  Allstate brand standard auto combined ratio was 98.2, 3.7 points higher than the second quarter of 2010 due to a 4.7 point increase in the impact of catastrophe losses
.  Allstate brand standard auto underlying combined ratio was 93.6 in the second quarter of 2011, compared to 94.1 in the second quarter of 2010.
 
Allstate brand homeowners premiums written increased 2.6% in the second quarter of 2011 compared to the same period a year ago, as a 6.0% increase in average gross premium was partly offset by a 3.9% decline in policies in force. 
Rate increases averaging 6.0% were approved in 18 states during the second quarter, as Allstate continued to take actions to improve homeowners returns.  Catastrophe losses impacted the Allstate brand homeowners combined ratio by 123.2 points in the second quarter of 2011.  Excluding the impact of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates, the Allstate brand homeowners underlying combined ratio was 69.5 in the second quarter of 2011, compared to 69.8 in the second quarter of 2010.
 
Allstate Financial Improves Financial Performance
 
Allstate Financial made progress on its commitment to improve returns.  By executing a strategy of reducing concentration in and improving the profitability of investment spread products, expanding Allstate Benefits and focusing on Allstate's core markets, operating income increased in the second quarter when compared to the second quarter of 2010.  Premiums and contract charges were in line with 2010 second quarter levels as growth in underwritten products offset a decline in annuities.
 
Allstate Financial operating income was $141 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared to $125 million in the prior year second quarter, due to increases in both benefit and investment spread.  The benefit spread increased to $161 million in the second quarter from $99 million in the 2010 second quarter due primarily to unfavorable reserve reestimates of $42 million recorded in 2010, as well as higher profitability and growth in Allstate Benefits' accident and health insurance business.  The investment spread increased 6.0% to $142 million in the second quarter when compared to the prior year quarter, as actions to improve investment portfolio yields and lower crediting rates on annuities and interest sensitive-life insurance more than offset the effect of a continued decline in spread-based business in force. As a result, operating income return on attributed equity* totaled 7.5% for the twelve months ended June 30, 2011.
Net income improved to $166 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared to a net loss of $107 million in the second quarter of 2010.  The improvement was due to net realized capital gains in the second quarter versus net realized capital losses in the second quarter of last year, and increased operating income.
 
Increasing Portfolio Yields Drive Strong Investment Results
 
Allstate maintained portfolio yields through proactive management of risk and return. The total portfolio yield was 4.5% during the second quarter of 2011, higher than both the prior quarter and prior year quarter.
 
Net investment income was $1.02 billion for the second quarter of 2011, a 2.8% decline from the second quarter of 2010, but a 3.9% increase compared to the first quarter of 2011.  Lower portfolio balances drove the changes from the prior year quarter.  Overall portfolio yields increased in the second quarter of 2011 when compared to both the second quarter of 2010 and first quarter of 2011, related to yield enhancement actions on fixed income securities, seasonal foreign equity dividends, and limited partnership distributions.
 
Net realized capital gains for the second quarter of 2011 were $57 million, pre-tax, compared to a net realized capital loss of $451 million, pre-tax, in the second quarter of 2010, primarily due to reduced derivative losses, lower impairment write-downs, and increased valuation gains on limited partnerships.
 
Allstate's consolidated investment portfolio totaled $99.3 billion at June 30, 2011 compared to $100.5 billion at December 31, 2010, as expected reductions in the Allstate Financial portfolio more than offset strong investment returns.  The net unrealized capital gains totaled $2.5 billion, pre-tax, at June 30, 2011 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2010.
 
Strong Capital Position, Repurchases Totaled $232 Million
 
"Our capital position continues to be strong after significant catastrophe losses and our share repurchase program," said Don Civgin, executive vice president and chief financial officer.
 
Statutory surplus at June 30, 2011 was an estimated $15.0 billion for Allstate Insurance Company, including $3.5 billion at Allstate Life Insurance Company.  This compares to Allstate Insurance Company statutory surplus of $15.9 billion at March 31, 2011 and $15.4 billion at December 31, 2010.  During the second quarter of 2011, Allstate Insurance Company made a $238 million dividend to the holding company.  Deployable assets at the holding company level totaled $3.5 billion at June 30, 2011 compared to $3.7 billion at March 31, 2011 and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2010.
 
"The impact of this quarter's catastrophe losses on book value per share was mostly offset
by an improved unrealized position," Civgin said.  Book value per share totaled $35.95 at June 30, 2011, compared to $36.51 at March 31, 2011 and $33.24 at June 30, 2010.  During the second quarter of 2011, Allstate repurchased shares totaling $232 million.  At June 30, 2011, $308 million remained on the $1 billion share repurchase program.
 
Visit to view additional information about Allstate's results, including a webcast of its quarterly conference call and the presentation discussed on the call.  The conference call will be held at 9 a.m. ET on Monday, August 1.
www.allstateinvestors.com
 
The Allstate Corporation
(NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer known for its "You're In Good Hands With Allstate
" slogan.  Now celebrating its 80th anniversary as an insurer, Allstate is reinventing protection and retirement to help nearly 16 million households insure what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow.  Consumers access Allstate insurance products (auto, home, life and retirement) and services through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives in the U.S. and Canada, as well as via and 1-800 Allstate
www.allstate.com
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following non-GAAP and operating financial measures.  Our methods for calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss), excluding:
     
realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivative instruments, which are reported with realized capital gains and losses but included in operating income (loss),
     
valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, after-tax,
     
amortization of DAC and DSI, to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital gains and losses or valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged,
     
gain (loss) on disposition of operations, after-tax, and
     
adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years.
 
Net income (loss) is the GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to operating income (loss).
 
We use operating income (loss) as an important measure to evaluate our results of operations.  We believe that the measure provides investors with a valuable measure of the company's ongoing performance because it reveals trends in our insurance and financial services business that may be obscured by the net effect of realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, gain (loss) on disposition of operations and adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items.  Realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged and gain (loss) on disposition of operations may vary significantly between periods and are generally driven by business decisions and external economic developments such as capital market conditions, the timing of which is unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  Consistent with our intent to protect results or earn additional income, operating income (loss) includes periodic settlements and accruals on certain derivative instruments that are reported in realized capital gains and losses because they do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  These instruments are used for economic hedges and to replicate fixed income securities, and by including them in operating income (loss), we are appropriately reflecting their trends in our performance and in a manner consistent with the economically hedged investments, product attributes (e.g., net investment income and interest credited to contractholder funds) or replicated investments.  Non-recurring items are excluded because, by their nature, they are not indicative of our business or economic trends.  Accordingly, operating income (loss) excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period and highlights the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our business.  A byproduct of excluding these items to determine operating income is the transparency and understanding of their significance to net income variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Operating income (loss) is used by management along with the other components of net income (loss) to assess our performance.  We use adjusted measures of operating income (loss) and operating income (loss) per diluted share in incentive compensation.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to evaluate net income (loss), operating income (loss) and their components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing and evaluating our performance.  We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the company and management's performance.We note that the price to earnings multiple commonly used by insurance investors as a forward-looking valuation technique uses operating income (loss) as the denominator.  Operating income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.
 
 
The following tables reconcile operating (loss) income and net (loss) income.
 
 
 
Underwriting income (loss)
is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expense ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP.  Management uses this measure in its evaluation of the results of operations to analyze the profitability of our Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results.  It is also an integral component of incentive compensation.  It is useful for investors to evaluate the components of income separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance.   Net income (loss) is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  Underwriting income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of Property-Liability underwriting income (loss) to net income (loss) is provided in the "Segment Results" page.
 
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates ("underlying combined ratio")
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between three GAAP operating ratios: the combined ratio, the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio and the effect of prior year non-catastrophe reserve reestimates on the combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  These catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude, and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  Prior year reserve reestimates are caused by unexpected loss development on historical reserves.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  We also provide it to facilitate a comparison to our outlook on the combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  The combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.
 
A reconciliation of the Property-Liability combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates to the Property-Liability combined ratio is provided in the following table.
 
 
In this news release, we provide our outlook range on the Property-Liability 2011 combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  A reconciliation of this measure to the combined ratio is not possible on a forward-looking basis because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of catastrophes.  Future prior year reserve reestimates are expected to be zero because reserves are determined based on our best estimate of ultimate loss reserves as of the reporting date.
 
A reconciliation of the Allstate brand standard auto combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates to the Allstate brand standard auto combined ratio is provided in the following table.
 
 
A reconciliation of the Allstate brand homeowners combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates to the Allstate brand homeowners combined ratio is provided in the following table.
 
 
Operating income (loss) return on shareholders' equity
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure.  It is calculated by dividing the rolling 12-month operating income (loss) by the average of shareholders' equity at the beginning and at the end of the 12-months, after excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses.  Return on shareholders' equity is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  We use operating income (loss) as the numerator for the same reasons we use operating income (loss), as discussed above.  We use average shareholders' equity excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses for the denominator as a representation of shareholders' equity primarily attributable to the company's earned and realized business operations because it eliminates the effect of items that are unrealized and vary significantly between periods due to external economic developments such as capital market conditions like changes in equity prices and interest rates, the amount and timing of which are unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  We use it to supplement our evaluation of net income (loss) and return on shareholders' equity because it excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period.  We believe that this measure is useful to investors and that it provides a valuable tool for investors when considered along with net income (loss) return on shareholders' equity because it eliminates the after-tax effects of realized and unrealized net capital gains and losses that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and that are driven by economic developments, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management.  In addition, it eliminates non-recurring items that are not indicative of our ongoing business or economic trends.  A byproduct of excluding the items noted above to determine operating income (loss) return on shareholders' equity from return on shareholders' equity is the transparency and understanding of their significance to return on shareholders' equity variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to have operating income (loss) return on shareholders' equity and return on shareholders' equity when evaluating our performance.  We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income (loss) return on shareholders' equity results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the company and management's utilization of capital.  Operating income (loss) return on shareholders' equity should not be considered as a substitute for return on shareholders' equity and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.
 
The following table reconciles return on shareholders' equity and operating income return on shareholders' equity.
 
 
The following tables reconcile Allstate Financial segment return on attributed equity and operating income return on attributed equity, including a reconciliation of Allstate Financial segment attributed equity to The Allstate Corporation shareholders' equity.
 
 
 
 
 
Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities,
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure.  It is calculated by dividing shareholders' equity after excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities and related DAC, DSI and life insurance reserves by total shares outstanding plus dilutive potential shares outstanding.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
 
We use the trend in book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, in conjunction with book value per share to identify and analyze the change in net worth attributable to management efforts between periods.  We believe the non-GAAP ratio is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and are generally driven by economic developments, primarily capital market conditions, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management, and we believe it enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers.  We note that book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, is a measure commonly used by insurance investors as a valuation technique.  Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, should not be considered as a substitute for book value per share, and does not reflect the recorded net worth of our business.  The following table shows the reconciliation.
 
 
Premiums written
is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period.  Premiums earned is a GAAP measure.  Premiums are considered earned and are included in financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period.  The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  A reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned is presented in the following table.
 
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This news release contains forward-looking statements about our outlook for the combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates for 2011.  These statements are subject to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections.  Actual results may differ materially from those projected based on the risk factors described below.
                 
Premiums written and premiums earned, the denominator of the underlying combined ratio, may be materially less than projected.  Policyholder attrition may be greater than anticipated resulting in a lower amount of insurance in force.
                 
Unanticipated increases in the severity or frequency of standard auto insurance claims may adversely affect our underwriting results.  Changes in the severity or frequency of claims may affect the profitability of our Allstate Protection segment.  Changes in bodily injury claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in the medical sector of the economy and litigation.  Changes in auto physical damage claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices.  The short-term level of claim frequency we experience may vary from period to period and may not be sustainable over the longer term.  A decline in gas prices, increase in miles driven, and higher unemployment are examples of factors leading to a short-term frequency change.  A significant long-term increase in claim frequency could have an adverse effect on our underwriting results.
We undertake no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statements.  This news release contains unaudited financial information.

Exhibit 99.2
 
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits included herein are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  The results of operations for interim periods should not be considered indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
 
Measures used in these financial statements and exhibits that are not based on generally accepted accounting principles ("non-GAAP") and operating measures are denoted with an asterisk (*) the first time they appear.  These measures are defined on the page "Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures" and non-GAAP measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
              
In accordance with GAAP, the quarter and year-to-date per share amounts are calculated discretely. Therefore, the sum of each quarter may not equal the year-to-date amount.
(2)
              
As a result of the net loss for the three-months and six-months ended June 30, 2011, weighted average dilutive potential common shares outstanding resulting from 2.1 million stock options and 0.5 million restricted stock options (non-participating) in both periods were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share since inclusion of these securities would have an anti-dilutive effect.
1
 
 
 
(1)        
In accordance with GAAP, the quarter and year-to-date per share amounts are calculated discretely. Therefore, the sum of each quarter may not equal the year-to-date amount.
(2)        
As a result of the net loss for the three-months and six-months ended June 30, 2011, weighted average dilutive potential common shares outstanding resulting from 2.1 million stock options and 0.5 million restricted stock options (non-participating) in both periods were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share since inclusion of these securities would have an anti-dilutive effect.
2
 
 
 
(1)        
For presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, service fees of the Corporate and Other segment are reclassified to Operating costs and expenses.
3
 
 
(1)       
Reinsurance recoverables of unpaid losses related to Property-Liability were $2,099 million, $2,134 million, $2,072 million, $2,095 million and $2,176 million as of June 30, 2011, March 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, September 30, 2010 and June 30, 2010, respectively.
4
 
 
5
 
 
 
(1)        
Net income and operating income reflect a trailing twelve-month period.
(2)        
Average shareholders' equity and average adjusted shareholders' equity are determined using a two-point average, with the beginning and ending shareholders' equity and adjusted shareholders' equity, respectively, for the twelve-month period as data points.
6
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
(1)
        
Amortization before adjustments reflects total DAC amortization before amortization/accretion related to realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged and amortization acceleration/deceleration charged/credited to income.
(2)        
Included as a component of amortization of DAC on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
9
 
 
 
(1)        
Amortization before adjustments reflects total DAC amortization before amortization/accretion related to realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged and amortization acceleration/deceleration charged/credited to income.
(2)        
Included as a component of amortization of DAC on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
10
 
 
11
 
12
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
(1)
   Other personal lines includes commercial, condominium, renters, involuntary auto and other personal lines.
15
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
18
 
 
19
 
 
 
20
 
 
21
 
 
(1)
 
Basis of Presentation
This homeowners supplemental information schedule displays financial results for the homeowners business (defined to include standard homeowners, scheduled personal property and other than primary residence lines) for the period 1992 through 2011.  The premiums and losses are presented on a GAAP basis with adjustments as indicated in Notes 3 and 4.  Each state in which the Company writes business has been categorized into one of two exposure groupings (Hurricane or Other).   Hurricane exposure states are comprised of those states in which hurricanes are the primary catastrophe exposure. However, the catastrophe losses for these states include losses due to other kinds of catastrophes.  A catastrophe is defined by Allstate as an event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess of $1 million, and involves multiple first party policyholders, or an event that produces a number of claims in excess of a preset per-event threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring within a certain amount of time following the event.
(2)
 
Hurricane Exposure States
Hurricane exposure states include the following coastal locations:  Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia and Washington, D.C.
(3)
 
Incurred Losses
Incurred losses (which include catastrophe losses) and Catastrophe losses, exclude the effects of those events for which the exposure is now covered, at least in part, by permanent industry reinsurance or insurance mechanism (i.e., Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF"), California Earthquake Authority) or with Hawaii hurricanes, coverage is being brokered to a non-affiliated insurance company.  Mechanisms such as the FHCF and external reinsurance are available and are reflected in our capital structure and help mitigate exposure to these types of events.   For the period 1992 - 2010, Incurred losses and Catastrophe losses for the Hurricane exposure states were adjusted to exclude $1.8 billion for losses related to Hurricane Andrew.  Incurred losses and Catastrophe losses for the Other catastrophe exposure states were adjusted to exclude an additional $1.8 billion for losses related to certain California earthquakes and Hawaii hurricanes.  Subsequent catastrophes of a similar magnitude are not excluded from the exhibit.  Through the use of the insurance mechanisms, Allstate may have a contingent liability for industry assessments and losses exceeding the claims paying capacity of these mechanisms as discussed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(4)
 
Earned Premiums
Earned premiums for the Hurricane exposure locations was adjusted to add back premium ceded to third party reinsurers of $178 million for hurricane reinsurance purchased in Florida, the Northeast and other states during the period 1992 to 2005.  These programs support management actions that address hurricane exposures.  Mechanisms such as the FHCF and external reinsurance are available and are reflected in our capital structure because they help mitigate exposure to these types of events, but no impact is reflected in earned premiums above.
(5)
 
Premium Rate Changes
Represents the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during the year as a percentage of total prior year-end premiums written in those states.
 
22
 
 
 
23
 
24
 
25
 
26
 
27
 
28
 
 
29
 
30
 
31
 
 
32
 
33
 
 
34
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
                     
Included in par value are zero-coupon securities that are generally purchased at a deep discount to the par value that is received at maturity.  These primarily included corporate, U.S. government and agencies, municipal and foreign government zero-coupon securities with par value of $534 million, $1.43 billion, $3.63 billion and $1.12 billion, respectively.
(2)
                     
Excluding the impact of zero-coupon securities, the percentage of amortized cost to par value would be 100.4% for corporates, 101.2% for U.S. government and agencies, 99.9% for municipals and 103.6% for foreign governments.  Similarly, excluding the impact of zero-coupon securities, the percentage of fair value to par value would be 104.7% for corporates, 104.6% for U.S. government and agencies, 101.1% for municipals and 110.1% for foreign governments.
35
 
 
(1)
           
Securities rated below investment grade comprise securities with a rating of Ba or lower. As of June 30, 2011, 58% of our below investment grade gross unrealized losses were concentrated in RMBS, specifically Alt-A and Subprime.  The fair value of these securities totaled $1.02 billion, a decrease of 5.7%, compared to $1.08 billion as of December 31, 2010.  Gross unrealized losses on these securities totaled $478 million as of June 30, 2011, an improvement of 13.7%, compared to $554 million as of December 31, 2010, due to impairment write-downs, principal collections, sales and improved valuations, partially offset by the downgrade of certain securities to below investment grade.
36
 
 
37
 
 
(1)
                
As of June 30, 2011, Property-Liability has commitments to invest in additional limited partnership interests totaling $1.01 billion.
(2)
                
Pre-tax yields are calculated as annualized investment income (including dividend income in the case of equity securities) divided by the average of investment balances at the end of each quarter during the year.  Investment balances, for purposes of the pre-tax yield calculation, exclude unrealized capital gains and losses.
(3)
                
The pre-tax yield for the total portfolio reflects the yield on total investments.  Total investments includes fixed income and equity securities, mortgage loans, cost limited partnership interests, short-term and other investments.
(4)
                
Includes $6 million and $9 million of write-downs for equity securities effectively carried on a lower of cost or fair value basis because we do not intend to hold them until recovery for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and six months ended June 30, 2011, respectively.
(5)
                
Average invested assets for the quarter are calculated as the average of the current and prior quarter invested assets. Year-to-date average invested assets are calculated as the average of invested assets at the end of each quarter during the year.  For purposes of the average invested assets calculation, unrealized capital gains and losses are excluded.
38
 
(1)
                
As of June 30, 2011, Allstate Financial has commitments to invest in additional limited partnership interests totaling $705 million.
 
(2)
                
Pre-tax yields are calculated as annualized investment income (including dividend income in the case of equity securities) divided by the average of investment balances at the end of each quarter during the year.  Investment balances, for purposes of the pre-tax yield calculation, exclude unrealized capital gains and losses.
 
(3)
                
The pre-tax yield for the total portfolio reflects the yield on total investments.  Total investments include fixed income and equity securities, mortgage loans, cost limited partnership interests, short-term and other investments.
 
(4)
                
Average invested assets for the quarter are calculated as the average of the current and prior quarter invested assets. Year-to-date average invested assets are calculated as the average of invested assets at the end of each quarter during the year.  For purposes of the average invested assets calculation, unrealized capital gains and losses are excluded.
39
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures
 
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following non-GAAP financial measures.  Our methods for calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss), excluding:
 - realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivative instruments, which are reported with realized capital gains and losses but included in operating income (loss),
- valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, after-tax,
 - amortization of deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") and deferred sales inducements ("DSI"), to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital gains and losses or valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, after-tax,
 - gain (loss) on disposition of operations, after-tax, and
 - adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years.  
 
Net income (loss) is the GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to operating income (loss).   We use operating income (loss) as an important measure to evaluate our results of operations.  We believe that the measure provides investors with a valuable measure of the Company's ongoing performance because it reveals trends in our insurance and financial services business that may be obscured by the net effect of realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, gain (loss) on disposition of operations and adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items.  Realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged and gain (loss) on disposition of operations may vary significantly between periods and are generally driven by business decisions and external economic developments such as capital market conditions, the timing of which is unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  Consistent with our intent to protect results or earn additional income, operating income (loss) includes periodic settlements and accruals on certain derivative instruments that are reported in realized capital gains and losses because they do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  These instruments are used for economic hedges and to replicate fixed income securities, and by including them in operating income (loss), we are appropriately reflecting their trends in our performance and in a manner consistent with the economically hedged investments, product attributes (e.g. net investment income and interest credited to contractholder funds) or replicated investments.  Non-recurring items are excluded because, by their nature, they are not indicative of our business or economic trends.  Accordingly, operating income (loss) excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period and highlights the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our business.  A byproduct of excluding these items to determine operating income (loss) is the transparency and understanding of their significance to net income variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Operating income (loss) is used by management along with the other components of net income (loss) to assess our performance.  We use adjusted measures of operating income (loss) and operating income (loss) per diluted share in incentive compensation.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to evaluate net income (loss), operating income (loss) and their components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing and evaluating our performance.  We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income (loss) results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the Company and management's performance.  We note that the price to earnings multiple commonly used by insurance investors as a forward-looking valuation technique uses operating income (loss) as the denominator.  Operating income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of operating income (loss) to net income (loss) is provided in the schedule, "Contribution to Income".
 
Underwriting income (loss)
is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expense ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP.  Management uses this measure in its evaluation of the results of operations to analyze the profitability of our Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results.  It is also an integral component of incentive compensation.  It is useful for investors to evaluate the components of income separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance.   Net income (loss) is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  Underwriting income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of Property-Liability underwriting income (loss) to net income (loss) is provided in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between two GAAP operating ratios:  the combined ratio and the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses.  These catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  The combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes to combined ratio is provided in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates ("underlying combined ratio")
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between three GAAP operating ratios: the combined ratio, the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio and the effect of prior year reserve reestimates on the combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  These catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude, and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  Prior year reserve reestimates are caused by unexpected loss development on historical reserves.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  We also provide it to facilitate a comparison to our outlook on the combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates.  The combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of the combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes and prior year reserve reestimates to combined ratio is provided in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Operating income return on shareholders' equity
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure. It is calculated by dividing the rolling 12-month operating income by the average of shareholders' equity at the beginning and at the end of the 12-months, after excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses. Return on shareholders' equity is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  We use operating income as the numerator for the same reasons we use operating income, as discussed above.  We use average shareholders' equity excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses for the denominator as a representation of shareholders' equity primarily attributable to the Company's earned and realized business operations because it eliminates the effect of items that are unrealized and vary significantly between periods due to external economic developments such as capital market conditions like changes in equity prices and interest rates, the amount and timing of which are unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  We use it to supplement our evaluation of net income and return on shareholders' equity because it excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period.  We believe that this measure is useful to investors and that it provides a valuable tool for investors when considered along with net income return on shareholders' equity because it eliminates the after-tax effects of realized and unrealized net capital gains and losses that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and that are driven by economic developments, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management.  In addition, it eliminates non-recurring items that are not indicative of our ongoing business or economic trends. A byproduct of excluding the items noted above to determine operating income return on shareholders' equity from return on shareholders' equity is the transparency and understanding of their significance to return on shareholders' equity variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to have operating income return on shareholders' equity and return on shareholders' equity when evaluating our performance.  We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income return on shareholders' equity results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the company and management's utilization of capital.  Operating income return on shareholders' equity should not be considered as a substitute for return on shareholders' equity and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of return on shareholders' equity and operating income return on shareholders' equity can be found in the schedule, "Return on Shareholders' Equity".
 
Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities,
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure.  It is calculated by dividing shareholders' equity after excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities and related DAC, DSI and life insurance reserves by total shares outstanding plus dilutive potential shares outstanding.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  We use the trend in book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities in conjunction with book value per share to identify and analyze the change in net worth attributable to management efforts between periods.  We believe the non-GAAP ratio is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and are generally driven by economic developments, primarily capital market conditions, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management, and we believe it enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers.  We note that book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, is a measure commonly used by insurance investors as a valuation technique.  Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, should not be considered as a substitute for book value per share, and does not reflect the recorded net worth of our business.  A reconciliation of book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains on fixed income securities, and book value per share can be found in the schedule, "Book Value per Share".
 
Operating Measure
 
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following operating financial measure.  Our method for calculating this measure may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
 
Premiums written
is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period.  Premiums earned is a GAAP measure.  Premiums are considered earned and are included in financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period.  The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  A reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned is presented in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Definitions of GAAP Operating Ratios and Impacts of Specific Items on the GAAP Operating Ratios
 
We use the following operating ratios to measure the profitability of our Property-Liability results.  We believe that they enhance an investor's understanding of our profitability.  They are calculated as follows:
 
Claims and claims expense ("loss") ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe losses.
 
Expense ratio
is the ratio of amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
 
Combined ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense, amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.  The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio.  The difference between 100% and the combined ratio represents underwriting income (loss) as a percentage of premiums earned or underwriting margin.
 
Effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on combined ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense and other costs and expenses in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment to Property-Liability premiums earned.  The sum of the effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on
the combined ratio and the Allstate Protection combined ratio is equal to the Property-Liability combined ratio.
 
Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio
is the percentage of catastrophe losses included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses. 
 
Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on combined ratio
is the percentage of prior year reserve reestimates included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.
 
Effect of pre-tax reserve reestimates on combined ratio
is the percentage of prior year reserve reestimates included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses. 
 
Effect of restructuring and related charges on combined ratio
is the percentage of restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
40


