FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20120822161523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[   ]    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[   ]    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[   ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[   ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
 
On August 22, 2012, the Registrant issued a press release announcing the selection of Sanjay Gupta as chief marketing officer effective as of September 1, 2012.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this report.
 
 
 
Item 9.01.
      
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
 
NEWS
 
 
NORTHBROOK, Ill.  August 22, 2012  Allstate (NYSE:ALL) today announced that Sanjay Gupta will join its senior leadership team as executive vice president and chief marketing officer. Gupta will be responsible for Allstate's marketing and consumer-focused initiatives to implement the strategy of offering unique products to different customer segments. Gupta will join Allstate effective September 1 and will report to Thomas J. Wilson, Allstate's chairman, president and chief executive officer.
 
"Sanjay's strategic and operating skills will further accelerate the implementation of our strategy to serve the four distinct customer segments in our marketplace," Wilson said. "His successful experience in branded consumer financial services, data analytics and electronic commerce will support increased customer loyalty, innovative product offerings and profitable growth in all of our businesses."
 
Gupta joins Allstate from Ally Financial, where as the chief marketing officer he led the global re-branding efforts and the rapid growth of the consumer deposit business. Prior to Ally, he was the senior vice president, Global Consumer and Small Business Marketing at Bank of America, where he spent seven years in a variety of marketing roles. Gupta has also held key marketing roles at SciQuest.com, Inc. and Federal Express. Gupta earned his bachelor's degree in Electronic Engineering from the University of Mumbai, India and his MBA from the University of Texas at Austin.
 
"I am excited to join Allstate's talented management team and look forward to leading the marketing programs for one of the strongest brands," Gupta said. "Allstate has a proven track record of introducing award-winning advertising and marketing campaigns, and I plan to continue to leverage those successes."
 
The Allstate Corporation
(NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer. Widely known through the "You're In Good Hands With Allstate
" slogan, Allstate is reinventing protection and retirement to help nearly 16 million households insure what they have today and
 
better prepare for tomorrow. Consumers access Allstate insurance products (auto, home, life and retirement) and services through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives in the U.S. and Canada, as well as via and 1-800 Allstate
www.allstate.com
. As part of to strengthen local communities, The Allstate Foundation, Allstate employees, agency owners and the corporation provided $28 million in 2011 to thousands of nonprofit organizations and important causes across the United States.
Allstate's commitment
 


