FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20120731161337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 2.  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02.             Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 31, 2012, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2012, and the availability of the registrant's second quarter investor supplement on the registrant's web site.  The press release and the investor supplement are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report.  The information contained in the press release and the investor supplement are furnished and not filed pursuant to instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
Section 9.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
Registrant's press release dated July 31, 2012
99.1
                                               
Second quarter 2012 Investor Supplement of The Allstate Corporation
99.2
                                               
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
NORTHBROOK, Ill., July 31, 2012  The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) today reported financial results for the second quarter of 2012:
 
 
NM = not meaningful
*
             
Measures used in this release that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("non-GAAP") are defined and reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure and operating measures are defined in the "Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures" section of this document.
 
 
"We made good progress this quarter on our 2012 operating priorities of maintaining auto profitability, improving returns in homeowners insurance and annuities, growing insurance premiums, and proactively managing our investments and capital," said Thomas J. Wilson, chairman, president and chief executive officer of The Allstate Corporation. "We improved our underlying margins in both auto and homeowners insurance.  Our investment portfolio generated solid returns in a challenging interest rate environment.  During the quarter, we repurchased 8.2 million shares of common stock for $275 million.  With an increase in book value per share of 9.8% since year-end 2011 and a dividend yield around 2.5%, we are generating solid value for our shareholders.
 
"Our strategy of offering unique products to different customer segments continued to show positive results," Wilson said.  "Overall, we grew insurance premiums in the second quarter despite the negative impact of raising returns in homeowners insurance.  Total Allstate brand premiums written grew compared to last year as higher average homeowners premiums and growth in emerging businesses more than offset a decline in Allstate brand homeowners and standard auto policies.  Allstate Financial increased unit sales of life insurance through our Allstate agency channel.  Esurance's premium growth accelerated with its policies in force increasing 13.5% since year-end 2011.  Encompass premiums written increased 5.9% compared to prior year on the strength of improved package policy sales."
Consolidated Results
 
Net income for the quarter was $423 million, or $0.86 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $624 million, or a loss of $1.19 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2011.  The increase in operating income of $1.1 billion was the primary driver of the improvement in net income.  For the quarter, operating income was $432 million, or $0.87 per diluted share versus an operating loss of $647 million, or a loss of $1.24 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2011.  The increase in operating income was due to lower catastrophe losses and an improvement in the underlying property-liability combined ratio.  Return on equity was 11.0% on a net income basis and 11.4%* on an operating income basis.
 
Property-Liability Premiums Grow while Profits Improve
 
Allstate's priority to grow premiums showed positive results in the second quarter.  Total property-liability premiums written* of $6.86 billion grew 3.8% from the second quarter of 2011 due to the acquisition of Esurance in early October 2011 and to a lesser extent, growth in both the Allstate and Encompass brands.  Allstate brand standard auto premiums written declined slightly from the prior year quarter as an expected reduction in units was partially offset by an increase in average premium.  Allstate brand homeowners, Emerging Businesses and Encompass contributed to the positive premiums written growth in the second quarter.  Overall policies in force declined by 0.6% from year-end 2011 as reductions in Allstate brand standard auto and homeowners were partially offset by growth in Canada, Emerging Businesses, Encompass and Esurance.
 
Allstate continued to execute successfully on its strategy to maintain auto margins while improving homeowners returns.  In the second quarter, the property-liability combined ratio was 98.0 compared to 123.3 in the prior year quarter.  The underlying combined ratio was 86.3, an improvement of 1.2 points from the second quarter of 2011 and below the outlook range of 88 to 91 for the full year 2012.  Catastrophe losses of $819 million in the quarter were substantial, but were significantly less than the catastrophe losses of $2.3 billion incurred in last year's second quarter.
 
For Allstate brand standard auto, the combined ratio was 95.5, an improvement of 2.8 points from the second quarter of 2011.  The underlying combined ratio for Allstate brand standard auto of 93.4 improved slightly from the second quarter of 2011 as implemented rate actions essentially matched the increase in loss costs.  Allstate brand homeowners combined ratio was 104.9 for the second quarter, a significant improvement from the combined ratio of 193.3 in the prior year quarter, driven by lower catastrophe losses and continued improvement in the underlying margin.  For the second quarter, the underlying combined ratio was 64.6, 4.8 points better than the 69.4 underlying combined ratio recorded in the prior year quarter, reflecting the impact of implemented rate changes as well as moderating loss costs.  Also contributing to the second quarter's positive results were improvements in the underlying margins for the other personal lines which comprise Emerging Businesses.
 
Allstate Financial Results Consistent with Strategy Execution
 
Allstate Financial continued to make progress on improving returns on attributed equity and shifting its focus to underwritten products from spread-based products.  Net income for the second quarter was $132 million, a $29 million decline from the prior year quarter driven by lower net realized capital gains.  Operating income increased 2.2% to $138 million in the second quarter of 2012, helped by the inclusion of equity method limited partnership results in operating income this year as well as lower crediting rates that were partially offset by worse mortality in both life insurance and annuities, lower yields on fixed income securities, and the continued managed reduction in spread business.
 
Premiums and contract charges on underwritten products totaled $540 million in the second quarter, an increase of 3.1% from the prior year period.  Consistent with the strategic direction to reduce Allstate Financial's annuity business, contractholder funds declined by $771 million from March 31, 2012 and $1.5 billion from year-end 2011.  Allstate agencies increased life unit sales, with issued policies growing 2.5% in the second quarter compared to the prior year quarter.
Proactive Management Drives Investment Results
 
Allstate delivered solid total returns on investments, reflecting continued proactive management of investment risk and return.  We remain focused on balancing yield and return considerations in this low rate environment, favoring corporate credit over Treasuries and equities, and intermediate over long-dated maturities.
 
Allstate's consolidated investment portfolio totaled $97.3 billion at June 30, 2012 compared to $95.6 billion at December 31, 2011, as solid investment returns and operating cash flow more than offset the impact of the ongoing managed reduction in Allstate Financial's liabilities.  For the second quarter of 2012, net investment income was $1.0 billion and total portfolio yield was 4.6%, higher than the second quarter of 2011 and consistent with the first quarter of 2012.  Inclusion of equity method limited partnership results in 2012, along with a higher amount, were the primary drivers of the favorable variance to the prior year quarter.  Excluding the limited partnership results, second quarter 2012 net investment income and portfolio yield were lower than the prior year, consistent with the reduction in Allstate Financial's liabilities and lower reinvestment rates.
 
Pre-tax net realized capital gains for the second quarter of 2012 were $27 million compared to $57 million in the second quarter of 2011.  Realized capital gains in the second quarter of 2012 reflect lower gains from sales of fixed income and equity securities and included lower impairment write-downs than last year's second quarter and derivative gains compared to losses in the prior year quarter.  Pre-tax net unrealized capital gains were $4.2 billion at June 30, 2012 compared to $2.9 billion at December 31, 2011, as a result of lower interest rates, tightened credit spreads and higher equity values.
 
Book Value per Share Increased 3% Sequentially; Repurchased $275 Million in Shares
 
"We continue to focus on effective capital management as a key priority," said Steve Shebik, chief financial officer.  "In the second quarter, Allstate repurchased shares worth $275 million, bringing total purchases to $681 million under the current $1 billion authorization.  With our strong operating performance, increased portfolio valuation and an active share repurchase program, book value per diluted share increased to $39.73."
 
Book value per diluted share increased 3% from March 31, 2012, 9.8% from year-end 2011, and 12.8% from June 30, 2011.
 
Statutory surplus at June 30, 2012 was an estimated $16.5 billion for the combined insurance operating companies.  Property-liability surplus was an estimated $12.9 billion with Allstate Financial companies accounting for the remainder.  Deployable assets at the holding company level were $2.3 billion at June 30, 2012.  Also during the quarter, Allstate maintained its dividend of $0.22 per share.
 
 
Visit to view additional information about Allstate's results, including a webcast of its quarterly conference call and the presentation discussed on the call.  The conference call will be held at 9 a.m. ET on Wednesday, August 1st.
www.allstateinvestors.com
 
The Allstate Corporation
(NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer, serving approximately 16 million households through its Allstate, Encompass, Esurance and Answer Financial brand names and Allstate Financial business segment.  Allstate branded insurance products (auto, home, life and retirement) and services are offered through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives, as well as via and 1-800 Allstate
www.allstate.com
, and are widely known through the slogan "You're In Good Hands With Allstate
."
 
 
 
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following non-GAAP and operating financial measures.  Our methods for calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss), excluding:
 
realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivative instruments, which are reported with realized capital gains and losses but included in operating income (loss),
 
valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, after-tax,
 
amortization of DAC and deferred sales inducements (DSI), to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital gains and losses or valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, after-tax,
 
business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets, after-tax,
 
gain (loss) on disposition of operations, after-tax, and
 
adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years.
 
Net income (loss) is the GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to operating income (loss).
 
We use operating income (loss) as an important measure to evaluate our results of operations.  We believe that the measure provides investors with a valuable measure of the company's ongoing performance because it reveals trends in our insurance and financial services business that may be obscured by the net effect of realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets, gain (loss) on disposition of operations and adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items.  Realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged and gain (loss) on disposition of operations may vary significantly between periods and are generally driven by business decisions and external economic developments such as capital market conditions, the timing of which is unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  Consistent with our intent to protect results or earn additional income, operating income (loss) includes periodic settlements and accruals on certain derivative instruments that are reported in realized capital gains and losses because they do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  These instruments are used for economic hedges and to replicate fixed income securities, and by including them in operating income (loss), we are appropriately reflecting their trends in our performance and in a manner consistent with the economically hedged investments, product attributes (e.g., net investment income and interest credited to contractholder funds) or replicated investments.  Business combination expenses are excluded because they are non-recurring in nature and the amortization of purchased intangible assets is excluded because it relates to the acquisition purchase price and is not indicative of our underlying insurance business results or trends.  Non-recurring items are excluded because, by their nature, they are not indicative of our business or economic trends.  Accordingly, operating income (loss) excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period and highlights the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our business.  A byproduct of excluding these items to determine operating income (loss) is the transparency and understanding of their significance to net income variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Operating income (loss) is used by management along with the other components of net income (loss) to assess our performance.  We use adjusted measures of operating income (loss) and operating income (loss) per diluted share in incentive compensation.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to evaluate net income (loss), operating income (loss) and their components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing and evaluating our performance.  We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income (loss) results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the company and management's performance.We note that the price to earnings multiple commonly used by insurance investors as a forward-looking valuation technique uses operating income (loss) as the denominator.  Operating income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.
 
The following tables reconcile operating income (loss) and net income (loss).
 
 
 
Operating income (loss) return on shareholders' equity
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure.  It is calculated by dividing the rolling 12-month operating income (loss) by the average of shareholders' equity at the beginning and at the end of the 12-months, after excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses.  Return on shareholders' equity is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  We use operating income (loss) as the numerator for the same reasons we use operating income (loss), as discussed above.  We use average shareholders' equity excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses for the denominator as a representation of shareholders' equity primarily attributable to the company's earned and realized business operations because it eliminates the effect of items that are unrealized and vary significantly between periods due to external economic developments such as capital market conditions like changes in equity prices and interest rates, the amount and timing of which are unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  We use it to supplement our evaluation of net income (loss) and return on shareholders' equity because it
excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period
.  We believe that this measure is useful to investors and that it provides a valuable tool for investors when considered along with net income (loss) return on shareholders' equity because it eliminates the after-tax effects of realized and unrealized net capital gains and losses that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and that are driven by economic developments, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management.  In addition, it eliminates non-recurring items that are not indicative of our ongoing business or economic trends.  A byproduct of excluding the items noted above to determine operating income (loss) return on shareholders' equity from return on shareholders' equity is the transparency and understanding of their significance to return on shareholders' equity variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to have operating income (loss) return on shareholders' equity and return on shareholders' equity when evaluating our performance.  We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income (loss) return on shareholders' equity results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the company and management's utilization of capital.  Operating income (loss) return on shareholders' equity should not be considered as a substitute for return on shareholders' equity and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.
 
The following table reconciles return on shareholders' equity and operating income return on shareholders' equity.
 
 
 
Underwriting income (loss)
is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expense ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP.  Management uses this measure in its evaluation of the results of operations to analyze the profitability of our Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results.  It is also an integral component of incentive compensation.  It is useful for investors to evaluate the components of income separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance.   Net income (loss) is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  Underwriting income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of Property-Liability underwriting income (loss) to net income (loss) is provided in the "Segment Results" page.
 
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes, prior year reserve reestimates, business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets ("underlying combined ratio")
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between four GAAP operating ratios: the combined ratio, the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio, the effect of prior year non-catastrophe reserve reestimates on the combined ratio, the effect of business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets on the combined ratio.  We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses, prior year reserve reestimates, business combination expenses and
the amortization of purchased intangible assets.  Catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude, and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  Prior year reserve reestimates are caused by unexpected loss development on historical reserves.  Business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets primarily relate to the acquisition purchase price and are not indicative of our underlying insurance business results or trends.   We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  We also provide it to facilitate a comparison to our
outlook on the underlying combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  The underlying combined ratio should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.
A reconciliation of the Property-Liability underlying combined ratio to the Property-Liability combined ratio is provided in the following table.
 
 
Underwriting margin is calculated as 100% minus the combined ratio.
 
The Property-Liability underlying combined ratio by brand is provided in the following table.
 
 
In this news release, we provide our outlook range on the Property-Liability 2012 underlying combined ratio.  A reconciliation of this measure to the combined ratio is not possible on a forward-looking basis because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of catastrophes.  Future prior year reserve reestimates are expected to be zero because reserves are determined based on our best estimate of ultimate loss reserves as of the reporting date.
 
A reconciliation of the Allstate brand standard auto underlying combined ratio to the Allstate brand standard auto combined ratio is provided in the following table.
 
 
A reconciliation of the Allstate brand homeowners underlying combined ratio to the Allstate brand homeowners combined ratio is provided in the following table.
 
 
Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities,
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure.  It is calculated by dividing shareholders' equity after excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities and related DAC, DSI and life insurance reserves by total shares outstanding plus dilutive potential shares outstanding.  We use the trend in book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, in conjunction with book value per share to identify and analyze the change in net worth attributable to management efforts between periods.  We believe the non-GAAP ratio is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and are generally driven by economic developments, primarily capital market conditions, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management, and we believe it enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers.  We note that book value per share, excluding the impact
of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, is a measure commonly used by insurance investors as a valuation technique.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, should not be considered as a substitute for book value per share, and does not reflect the recorded net worth of our business.  The following table shows the reconciliation.
 
 
Premiums written
is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period.  Premiums earned is a GAAP measure.  Premiums are considered earned and are included in financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period.  The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  A reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned is presented in the following table.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This news release contains forward-looking statements about our outlook for the Property-Liability combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes, prior year reserve reestimates, business combination expenses, and the amortization of purchased intangible assets for 2012.  These statements are subject to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections.  Actual results may differ materially from those projected based on the risk factors described below.
                 
Premiums written and premiums earned, the denominator of the underlying combined ratio, may be materially less than projected.  Policyholder attrition may be greater than anticipated resulting in a lower amount of insurance in force.
                 
Unanticipated increases in the severity or frequency of standard auto insurance claims may adversely affect our underwriting results.  Changes in the severity or frequency of claims may affect the profitability of our Allstate Protection segment.  Changes in bodily injury claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in the medical sector of the economy and litigation.  Changes in auto physical damage claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices.  The short-term level of claim frequency we experience may vary from period to period and may not be sustainable over the longer term.  A decline in gas prices, increase in miles driven, and higher unemployment are examples of factors leading to a short-term frequency change.  A significant long-term increase in claim frequency could have an adverse effect on our underwriting results.
We undertake no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statements.  This news release contains unaudited financial information.
 

Exhibit 99.2
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits included herein are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 2, 2012 (retrospective adoption of deferred acquisition costs "DAC") and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  The results of operations for interim periods should not be considered indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
 
Measures used in these financial statements and exhibits that are not based on generally accepted accounting principles ("non-GAAP") and operating measures are denoted with an asterisk (*) the first time they appear.  These measures are defined on the page "Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures" and non-GAAP measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure herein.
 
 
 
1
 
2
 
 
 
(1)
      For presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, service fees of the Corporate and Other segment are reclassified to Operating costs and expenses.
3
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
                 
Reinsurance recoverables of unpaid losses related to Property-Liability were $2,544 million, $2,571 million, $2,588 million, $2,271 million and $2,099 million as of June 30, 2012, March 31, 2012, December 31, 2011, September 30, 2011 and June 30, 2011, respectively.
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
(1)
                
Net income and operating income reflect a trailing twelve-month period.
(2)
                
Average shareholders' equity and average adjusted shareholders' equity are determined using a two-point average, with the beginning and ending shareholders' equity and adjusted shareholders' equity, respectively, for the twelve-month period as data points.
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
10
11
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
(1)
   Other personal lines includes commercial, condominium, renters, involuntary auto and other personal lines.
(2)
   Ratios are calculated using the premiums earned for the respective line of business.
14
 
 
 
(1)
   Other personal lines includes commercial, condominium, renters, involuntary auto and other personal lines.
15
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
(1)
     Loss ratios include prior year reserve reestimates.
17
 
 
18
 
19
20
21
 
 
 
22
 
23
 
 
 
24
 
 
 
 
(1) 
Basis of Presentation
This homeowners supplemental information schedule displays financial results for the homeowners business (defined to include standard homeowners, scheduled personal property and other than primary residence lines).  Each state in which the Company writes business has been categorized into one of two exposure groupings (Hurricane or Other).   Hurricane exposure states are comprised of those states in which hurricanes are the primary catastrophe exposure. However, the catastrophe losses for these states include losses due to other kinds of catastrophes.  A catastrophe is defined by Allstate as an event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess of $1 million, and involves multiple first party policyholders, or an event that produces a number of claims in excess of a preset per-event threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring within a certain amount of time following the event.
(2) 
Hurricane Exposure States
Hurricane exposure states include the following coastal locations:  Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia and Washington, D.C.
(3) 
Premium Rate Changes
Represents the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during the year as a percentage of total prior year-end premiums written in those states.
25
 
 
 
(1)
                   
The effect of Catastrophe losses on the combined ratio is presented excluding the effects of those events for which the exposure is now covered by an industry reinsurance or insurance mechanism (i.e., Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund and California Earthquake Authority) or with Hawaii hurricanes, coverage is being brokered to a non-affiliated insurance company (see the "Commitments, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities" footnote to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
(2)
                   
The effect of Catastrophes and Catastrophes excluding extraordinary catastrophes on the Combined Ratio calculated as an average for all periods since 1992.
(3)
                   
The years 1992-1994 have been adjusted to exclude the premiums earned of the PMI Group, a mortgage guarantee insurer that was sold in 1995.
26
 
27
 
 
 
(1)
         
Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
(2)
         
Favorable reserve reestimates included in catastrophe losses totaled $93 million and $17 million in the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Favorable reserve reestimates included in catastrophe losses totaled $254 million and $51 million in the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
28
 
 
29
 
 
30
 
 
 
(1)
 
             
Net income and operating income reflect a trailing twelve-month period.
(2)
 
             
Allstate Financial attributed equity is the sum of equity for Allstate Life Insurance Company, the applicable equity for American Heritage Life Investment Corporation, and the equity for Allstate Bank. Allstate Bank's equity is zero beginning March 31, 2012.
(3)
 
             
Average attributed equity and average adjusted attributed equity are determined using a two-point average, with the beginning and ending attributed equity and adjusted attributed equity, respectively, for the twelve-month period as data points.
31
 
 
 
(1)        
Includes products directly sold through call centers and internet.
(2)        
Excludes Allstate Benefits and non-proprietary products.
32
 
 
33
 
34
 
 
 
35
 
 
 
 
36
 
37
 
38
 
 
 
39
 
 
 
 
 
40
 
 
 
41
 
 
 
 
42
 
 
 
(1)
     
As of June 30, 2012, Property-Liability has commitments to invest in additional limited partnership interests totaling $1.38 billion.
(2)
     
Income from EMA limited partnerships is reported in net investment income in 2012 and realized capital gains and losses in 2011.
(3)
     
Pre-tax yields are calculated as annualized investment income (including dividend income in the case of equity securities) divided by the average of investment balances at the end of each quarter during the year.  Investment balances, for purposes of the pre-tax yield calculation, exclude unrealized capital gains and losses.  EMA limited partnership interests are included in the 2012 yields since their 2012 income is reported in net investment income. Total portfolio yield for The Allstate Corporation was 4.6% in the second quarter of 2012 compared to 4.5% in the second quarter of 2011.
(4)
     
Average invested assets for the quarter are calculated as the average of the current and prior quarter invested assets. Year-to-date average invested assets are calculated as the average of invested assets at the end of each quarter during the year.  For purposes of the average invested assets calculation, unrealized capital gains and losses are excluded.
43
 
 
 
(1)
      
As of June 30, 2012, Allstate Financial has commitments to invest in additional limited partnership interests totaling $714 million.
(2)
      
Income from EMA limited partnerships is reported in net investment income in 2012 and realized capital gains and losses in 2011.
(3)
      
Pre-tax yields are calculated as annualized investment income (including dividend income in the case of equity securities) divided by the average of investment balances at the end of each quarter during the year.  Investment balances, for purposes of the pre-tax yield calculation, exclude unrealized capital gains and losses.  EMA limited partnership interests are included in the 2012 yields since their 2012 income is reported in net investment income.
(4)
      
Average invested assets for the quarter are calculated as the average of the current and prior quarter invested assets. Year-to-date average invested assets are calculated as the average of invested assets at the end of each quarter during the year.  For purposes of the average invested assets calculation, unrealized capital gai
ns and losses are excluded.
44
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP and Operating Measures
 
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following non-GAAP financial measures.  Our methods for calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss), excluding:
- realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivative instruments, which are reported with realized capital gains and losses but included in operating income (loss),
- valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, after-tax,
- amortization of deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") and deferred sales inducements ("DSI"), to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital gains and losses or valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, after-tax,
- business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets, after-tax,
- gain (loss) on disposition of operations, after-tax, and
- adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years.
 
Net income (loss) is the GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to operating income (loss).   We use operating income (loss) as an important measure to evaluate our results of operations.  We believe that the measure provides investors with a valuable measure of the Company's ongoing performance because it reveals trends in our insurance and financial services business that may be obscured by the net effect of realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets, gain (loss) on disposition of operations and adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items.  Realized capital gains and losses, valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged and gain (loss) on disposition of operations may vary significantly between periods and are generally driven by business decisions and external economic developments such as capital market conditions, the timing of which is unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  Consistent with our intent to protect results or earn additional income, operating income (loss) includes periodic settlements and accruals on certain derivative instruments that are reported in realized capital gains and losses because they do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  These instruments are used for economic hedges and to replicate fixed income securities, and by including them in operating income (loss), we are appropriately reflecting their trends in our performance and in a manner consistent with the economically hedged investments, product attributes (e.g., net investment income and interest credited to contractholder funds) or replicated investments.  Business combination expenses are excluded because they are non-recurring in nature and the amortization of purchased intangible assets is excluded because it relates to the acquisition purchase price and is not indicative of our underlying insurance business results or trends. Non-recurring items are excluded because, by their nature, they are not indicative of our business or economic trends.  Accordingly, operating income (loss) excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period and highlights the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our business.  A byproduct of excluding these items to determine operating income (loss) is the transparency and understanding of their significance to net income variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Operating income (loss) is used by management along with the other components of net income (loss) to assess our performance.  We use adjusted measures of operating income (loss) and operating income (loss) per diluted share in incentive compensation.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to evaluate net income (loss), operating income (loss) and their components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing and evaluating our performance.  We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income (loss) results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the Company and management's performance.  We note that the price to earnings multiple commonly used by insurance investors as a forward-looking valuation technique uses operating income (loss) as the denominator.  Operating income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of operating income (loss) to net income (loss) is provided in the schedule, "Contribution to Income".
 
Underwriting income (loss)
is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expense ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP.  Management uses this measure in its evaluation of the results of operations to analyze the profitability of our Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results.  It is also an integral component of incentive compensation.  It is useful for investors to evaluate the components of income separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance.   Net income (loss) is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  Underwriting income (loss) should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of Property-Liability underwriting income (loss) to net income (loss) is provided in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between two GAAP operating ratios:  the combined ratio and the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio. We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses.  Catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  The combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes to combined ratio is provided in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Combined ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes, prior year reserve reestimates, business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets ("underlying combined ratio")
is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between four GAAP operating ratios: the combined ratio, the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio, the effect of prior year reserve reestimates on the combined ratio, the effect of business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets on the combined ratio.   We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses, prior year reserve reestimates, business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets.  Catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude, and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio.  Prior year reserve reestimates are caused by unexpected loss development on historical reserves.  Business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets primarily relate to the acquisition purchase price and are not indicative of our underlying insurance business results or trends.  We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance.  We also provide it to facilitate a comparison to our outlook on the underlying combined ratio. The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio.  The underlying combined ratio should not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of the underlying combined ratio to combined ratio is provided in the schedules, "Property-Liability Results", "Standard Auto Profitability Measures" and "Homeowners Profitability Measures".
 
Operating income return on shareholders' equity
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure. It is calculated by dividing the rolling 12-month operating income by the average of shareholders' equity at the beginning and at the end of the 12-months, after excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses. Return on shareholders' equity is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  We use operating income as the numerator for the same reasons we use operating income, as discussed above.  We use average shareholders' equity excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses for the denominator as a representation of shareholders' equity primarily attributable to the Company's earned and realized business operations because it eliminates the effect of items that are unrealized and vary significantly between periods due to external economic developments such as capital market conditions like changes in equity prices and interest rates, the amount and timing of which are unrelated to the insurance underwriting process.  We use it to supplement our evaluation of net income and return on shareholders' equity because it excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period.  We believe that this measure is useful to investors and that it provides a valuable tool for investors when considered along with net income return on shareholders' equity because it eliminates the after-tax effects of realized and unrealized net capital gains and losses that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and that are driven by economic developments, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management.  In addition, it eliminates non-recurring items that are not indicative of our ongoing business or economic trends. A byproduct of excluding the items noted above to determine operating income return on shareholders' equity from return on shareholders' equity is the transparency and understanding of their significance to return on shareholders' equity variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.  Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to have operating income return on shareholders' equity and return on shareholders' equity when evaluating our performance.  We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize operating income return on shareholders' equity results in their evaluation of our and our industry's financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the company and management's utilization of capital.  Operating income return on shareholders' equity should not be considered as a substitute for return on shareholders' equity and does not reflect the overall profitability of our business.  A reconciliation of return on shareholders' equity and operating income return on shareholders' equity can be found in the schedule, "Return on Shareholders' Equity".
 
Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities,
is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure.  It is calculated by dividing shareholders' equity after excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities and related DAC, DSI and life insurance reserves by total shares outstanding plus dilutive potential shares outstanding.  We use the trend in book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, in conjunction with book value per share to identify and analyze the change in net worth attributable to management efforts between periods.  We believe the non-GAAP ratio is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period and are generally driven by economic developments, primarily capital market conditions, the magnitude and timing of which are generally not influenced by management, and we believe it enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers.  We note that book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, is a measure commonly used by insurance investors as a valuation technique.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  Book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses on fixed income securities, should not be considered as a substitute for book value per share, and does not reflect the recorded net worth of our business.  A reconciliation of book value per share, excluding the impact of unrealized net capital gains on fixed income securities, and book value per share can be found in the schedule, "Book Value per Share".
 
Operating Measure
 
We believe that investors' understanding of Allstate's performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following operating financial measure.  Our method for calculating this measure may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
 
Premiums written
is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period.  Premiums earned is a GAAP measure.  Premiums are considered earned and are included in financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period.  The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  A reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned is presented in the schedule, "Property-Liability Results".
 
Definitions of GAAP Operating Ratios and Impacts of Specific Items on the GAAP Operating Ratios
 
We use the following operating ratios to measure the profitability of our Property-Liability results.  We believe that they enhance an investor's understanding of our profitability.  They are calculated as follows:
 
Claims and claims expense ("loss") ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe losses.
 
Expense ratio
is the ratio of amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
 
Combined ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense, amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.  The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio.  The difference between 100% and the combined ratio represents underwriting income (loss) as a percentage of premiums earned or underwriting margin.
 
Effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on combined ratio
is the ratio of claims and claims expense and operating costs and expenses in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment to Property-Liability premiums earned.  The sum of the effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on the combined ratio and the Allstate Protection combined ratio is equal to the Property-Liability combined ratio.
 
Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio
is the percentage of catastrophe losses included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.
 
Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on combined ratio
is the percentage of prior year reserve reestimates included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned.  This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.
 
Effect of restructuring and related charges on combined ratio
is the percentage of restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
 
Effect of business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets on the combined and expense ratio
is the percentage of business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets to premiums earned.
45


