FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20120307153344.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[   ]       Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[   ]       Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[   ]       Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[   ]       Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
As previously reported in a current report on Form 8-K filed by the Registrant on February 27, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Registrant, at a meeting held on February 26, 2012, appointed Steven E. Shebik as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Don Civgin (until this appointment, the Chief Financial Officer of the Registrant) as President of Allstate Financial, and Matthew E. Winter (until this appointment, President of Allstate Financial and a named executive officer) as President of Allstate Auto, Home and Agencies.  Mr. Civgin will also retain responsibility for the Esurance companies.  Each appointment was effective February 27, 2012.
 
Mr. Shebik, age 55, was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Allstate Investments from January 2009 until February 27, 2012, prior to which he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of both the Registrant's Allstate Protection segment, from 2005 to December 2008, and Allstate Financial segment, from 2003 to 2005.  Between 2002 and 2003, he was Senior Vice President, Accounting, Financial Systems & Integration, of the Registrant.  Previously, Mr. Shebik held various positions within the Registrant as an Assistant Treasurer and a vice president in finance and in mergers and acquisitions from 1995 to 2002.
 
In connection with Mr. Shebik's appointment as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, on March 6, 2012, the Registrant's Compensation and Succession Committee awarded Mr. Shebik 9,736 shares of performance stock and an option to purchase 35,014 shares of the Registrant's common stock.  The awards were granted under the Registrant's 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  Mr. Shebik's annual salary as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is currently $550,000.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: March 7, 2011

Exhibit 10.1
 
Article 1.
Establishment, Purpose and Duration
                                  
 
.  The Allstate Corporation, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter, together with any successor as provided in Article 18 herein, referred to as the "Company"), hereby establishes an incentive compensation plan for employees, as set forth in this document.  The Plan permits the grant of nonqualified stock options (NQSOs), incentive stock options (ISOs), stock appreciation rights (SARs), unrestricted stock, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units, performance stock and other awards.
.1
1
                           
Establishment of the Plan
 
The Plan was formerly known as "The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan."  The Plan was approved by the Board of Directors on March 13, 2001 and became effective when approved by the Company's stockholders on May 15, 2001 (the "Effective Date").  The Plan was amended by the Board of Directors on March 9, 2004.  On March 14, 2006 the Plan was amended and restated effective upon approval by stockholders at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 16, 2006.  The Plan was further amended and restated by the Board at meetings held on September 10, 2006, February 20, 2007, and September 15, 2008.  On March 10, 2009, the Plan was amended, restated and renamed as "The Allstate Corporation 2009 Equity Incentive Plan," effective upon approval by stockholders at the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 19, 2009.  The Plan was further amended and restated on February 22, 2011, and February 21, 2012, and shall thereafter remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 herein.
 
.2. The primary purpose of the Plan is to provide a means by which employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries can acquire and maintain stock ownership, thereby strengthening their commitment to the success of the Company and its Subsidiaries and their desire to remain employed by the Company and its Subsidiaries.  The Plan also is intended to attract and retain employees and to provide such employees with additional incentive and reward opportunities designed to encourage them to enhance the profitable growth of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
1
       Purpose of the Plan
 
.  The Plan shall commence on the Effective Date, as described in Section 1.1 herein, and shall remain in effect subject to the right of the Board of Directors to terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Article 15 herein, until all Stock subject to it shall have been purchased or acquired according to the Plan's provisions.
.3
1
        
Duration of the Plan
 
Article 2.
Definitions
                                  
 
Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when such meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:
 
 
means, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of NQSOs, ISOs, SARs, Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units, Performance Stock or any other type of award permitted under Article 10 of the Plan.
2.1
                           
Award
 
means an agreement setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to an Award granted to a Participant under the Plan.
2.2
                           
Award Agreement
 
of an SAR means the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date the SAR is granted.
2.3
                           
Base Value
 
means a person or entity designated as a beneficiary in accordance with Section 6.7.
2.4
                           
Beneficiary
 
means a form provided by the Company for the purpose of designating a beneficiary in accordance with Section 6.7.
2.5
Beneficiary Designation Form 
                           
 
or means the Board of Directors of the Company.
2.6
                           
Board
Board of Directors
 
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
2.7
                           
Code
 
means the committee, as specified in Article 3, appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.
2.8
                           
Committee
 
has the meaning provided in Section 1.1 herein.
2.9
                           
Company
 
means any Participant who would be considered a "covered employee" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
2.10
                   
Covered Employee
 
means an impairment which renders a Participant disabled within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(C).
2.11
                   
Disability
 
means, with respect to Stock subject to an Award (other than an Option or SAR), a right to be paid an amount equal to cash dividends, other than large, nonrecurring cash dividends, declared on an equal number of outstanding shares of Stock.
2.12
                   
Dividend Equivalent
 
means a Person who is eligible to participate in the Plan, as set forth in Section 5.1 herein.
2.13
                   
Eligible Person
 
means an individual who is paid on the payroll of the Company or of one of the Company's Subsidiaries, who is not covered by any collective bargaining agreement to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, and is classified on the employer's human resource payroll system as a regular full-time or regular part-time employee.
2.14
                   
Employee
 
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto.
2.15
                   
Exchange Act
 
means the period during which an SAR or Option is exercisable, as set forth in the related Award Agreement.
.16
2
                   
Exercise Period
 
means the price at which a share of the Stock was last sold in the principal United States market for the Stock as of the date for which fair market value is being determined.
.17
2
                   
Fair Market Value
 
means any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, domestic partner, or sibling, including adoptive relationships, a trust in which these persons have more than fifty (50) percent of the beneficial interest, a foundation in which these persons (or the Employee) control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or the Employee) own more than fifty (50) percent of the voting interests.
.18
2
                   
Family Member
 
means an SAR that is not a Tandem SAR.
.19
2
                   
Freestanding SAR
 
means an Award granted on or after May 19, 2009, other than an Option or a SAR.
2.20
                   
Full-Value Award
 
or means an option to purchase Stock, granted under Article 6 herein, which is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and satisfies the requirements of Section 422 of the Code.
.21
2
                   
Incentive Stock Option
ISO
 
means the $.01 par value per share or such larger amount determined pursuant to resolution of the Board to be capital within the meaning of Section 154 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
.22
2
                   
Minimum Consideration
 
or means an option to purchase Stock, granted under Article 6 herein, which is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option under Section 422 of the Code.
.23
2
                   
Nonqualified Stock Option
NQSO
 
means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option.
.24
2
                   
Option
 
means the price at which a share of Stock may be purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option, as determined by the Committee and set forth in the Option Award Agreement.
.25
2
                   
Option Exercise Price
 
means an Eligible Person who has outstanding an Award granted under the Plan.
.26
2
                   
Participant
 
means an Award intended to qualify for the exemption from the limitation on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code as set forth in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code.
.27
2
                   
Performance-Based Compensation
 
means the performance goals established by the Committee, which shall be based on one or more of the following measures:  sales, revenues, premiums, financial product sales, earnings per share, stockholder return and/or value, funds from operations, operating
2.28
                   
Performance Goals
 
income, gross income, net income, combined ratio, underwriting income, cash flow, return on equity, return on capital, return on assets, values of assets, market share, net earnings, earnings before interest, operating ratios, stock price, customer satisfaction, customer retention, customer loyalty, strategic business criteria based on meeting specified revenue goals, market penetration goals, investment performance goals, business expansion goals or cost targets, accomplishment of mergers, acquisitions, dispositions or similar extraordinary business transactions, profit returns and margins, financial return ratios, market performance and/or risk-based capital goals or returns.  Performance Goals may be based solely on a corporate, subsidiary, business unit or other grouping basis, or a combination thereof.  Performance Goals may reflect absolute entity performance or a relative comparison of entity performance to the performance of a peer group of entities or other external measure.
 
means the time period during which Performance Unit/Performance Stock Performance Goals must be met.
.29
2
Performance Period
                   
 
means an Award described in Article 9 herein.
.30
2
                   
Performance Stock
 
means an Award described in Article 9 herein.
.31
2
                   
Performance Unit
 
means the period during which the transfer of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units is limited in some way, as provided in Article 8 herein.
.32
2
                   
Period of Restriction
 
means any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, association, corporation, institution, public benefit corporation, entity or government instrumentality, division, agency, body or department.
.33
2
                   
Person
 
means The Allstate Corporation 2009 Equity Incentive Plan.
.34
2
                         
Plan
 
means an Award of Restricted Stock designated as Qualified Restricted Stock by the Committee at the time of grant and intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation.
.35
2
                   
Qualified Restricted Stock
 
means an Award of Restricted Stock Units designated as Qualified Restricted Stock Units by the Committee at the time of grant and intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation.
.36
2
                   
Qualified Restricted Stock Unit
 
means an additional Option related to Options awarded prior to 2004 as described in Article 6 herein.
.37
2
                   
Reload Option
 
means an Award described in Article 8 herein.
.38
2
                   
Restricted Stock
 
means an Award described in Article 8 herein.
.39
2
                   
Restricted Stock Unit
 
means a Participant's termination from employment with the Company or a Subsidiary at the Participant's Early or Normal Retirement Date, as applicable.  An Early Retirement Date may only occur before February 21, 2012.
.40
2
                   
Retirement
 
(a)
                              
Early Retirement Date
 
For Awards granted before February 22, 2011, shall mean the date prior to the Participant's Normal Retirement Date on which a Participant terminates employment, if such termination date occurs on or after the Participant attains age fifty-five (55) with twenty (20) years of service and such retirement is in accordance with the voluntary early retirement policy of the Company or the Subsidiary with which the Participant is employed on the date of termination of employment.
(i)
                                
 
For Awards granted on or after February 22, 2011, but before February 21, 2012, shall mean the date prior to the Participant's Normal Retirement Date on which a Participant terminates employment, if such termination date occurs on or after the Participant attains age fifty-five (55) with ten (10) years of service.
(ii)
                             
 
(b)
Normal Retirement Date
                             
 
For awards granted before February 21, 2012, shall have the meaning given to it by the Company or the Subsidiary with which the Participant is employed on the date of termination of employment, provided that such termination is voluntary and occurs on or after the Participant attains age sixty (60) with at least one (1) year of service at termination of employment.
(i)
                                
 
For awards granted on or after February 21, 2012, shall mean the date on which a Participant terminates employment, if such termination date occurs on or after the Participant attains age fifty-five (55) with ten (10) years of service, or age sixty (60) with five (5) years of service.
(ii)
                             
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 19.5 herein.
2.41
                   
Section 409A
 
means any Participant who was designated by the Board as an "executive officer" or as an officer for purposes of Section 16 of the 1934 Act.
.42
2
                   
Section 16 Officer
 
means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
.43
2
                   
Securities Act
 
means the common stock, $.01 par value, of the Company.
.44
2
                   
Stock
 
or means a right, granted alone or in connection with a related Option, designated as an SAR, to receive a payment on the day the right is exercised, pursuant to the terms of Article 7 herein. Each SAR shall be denominated in terms of one share of Stock.
.45
2
                   
Stock Appreciation Right
SAR
 
means any corporation, business trust, limited liability company or partnership with respect to which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, Voting Securities representing more than 50% of the aggregate Voting Power of the then-outstanding Voting Securities.
.46
2
                   
Subsidiary
 
means an SAR that is granted in connection with a related Option, the exercise of which shall require forfeiture of the right to purchase Stock under the related Option (and when Stock is purchased under the Option, the Tandem SAR shall be similarly canceled).
.47
2
                   
Tandem SAR
 
occurs the first day on which an individual is for any reason no longer employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or with respect to an individual who is an Employee of a Subsidiary, the first day on which the Company no longer owns, directly or indirectly, Voting Securities possessing at least 50% of the Voting Power of such Subsidiary.  For purposes of the Plan, transfer of employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of its Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) shall not be deemed a termination of employment.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no issuance of Stock or payment of cash shall be made upon a Termination of Employment with respect to any Award that constitutes deferred compensation for purposes of Section 409A unless the Termination of Employment constitutes a "separation from service" as that term is used in Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Code.
.48
2
                   
Termination of Employment
 
means an Award of Stock not subject to restrictions described in Article 8 herein.
.49
2
                   
Unrestricted Stock
 
for purposes of Sections 2.46 and 2.48 means the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
.50
2
                   
Voting Power
 
of a corporation means securities of such corporation that are entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of such corporation.
.51
2
                   
Voting Securities
 
Article 3.
Administration
                                  
 
. The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation and Succession Committee or such other committee (the "Committee") as the Board of Directors shall select, consisting solely of two or more nonemployee members of the Board.  The members of the Committee shall be appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the discretion of, the Board of Directors.
.1
3
                           
The Committee
 
.  The Committee shall have full power except as limited by law, the articles of incorporation or the bylaws of the Company, subject to such other restricting limitations or directions as may be imposed by the Board and subject to the provisions herein, to determine the Eligible Persons to receive Awards; to determine when Awards may be granted and to
.2
3
                           
Authority of the Committee
 
grant Awards under the Plan; to determine the size and types of Awards; to determine the terms and conditions of such Awards; to assess whether Performance Goals have been met; to construe and interpret the Plan and any agreement or instrument entered into under the Plan; to establish, amend or waive rules and regulations for the Plan's administration; to amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award, including but not limited to amendments with respect to exercisability and non-forfeitability of Awards upon a Termination of Employment; to make such adjustments or modifications to Awards to Participants working outside the United States as are necessary or advisable to fulfill the purposes of the Plan; to accelerate the exercisability of, and to accelerate or waive any or all of the restrictions and conditions applicable to, any Award; and to authorize any action of or make any determination by the Company as the Committee shall deem necessary or advisable for carrying out the purposes of the Plan; , , that the Committee may not amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award so as to adversely affect in any material way such Award without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award (or if the Participant is not then living, the Participant's personal representative or estate), unless such amendment is required by applicable law; and , , that any discretion exercised by the Committee pursuant to Section 4.2 and the following paragraph of this Section 3.2 shall not be deemed to adversely affect in any material way an Award.  The Committee may designate which Subsidiaries participate in the Plan and may authorize foreign Subsidiaries to adopt plans as provided in Article 14.  Further, the Committee shall interpret and make all other determinations which may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  As permitted by law, the Committee may delegate its authorities as identified hereunder.
provided
however
provided
further
 
or other transaction or event described in Section 4.2), the terms of outstanding Awards may not be amended to reduce the exercise price of outstanding Options or SARs or to cancel outstanding Options or SARs in exchange for other Awards or Options or SARs with an Option Exercise Price or Base Value, as applicable, that is less than the Option Exercise Price or Base Value of the original Options or SARs, without stockholder approval.
If the Committee determines it is in the best interest of the Company's stockholders to cancel any Awards granted hereunder, it may, in its discretion, elect at any time to cancel all or any of the Awards granted hereunder and pay the holders of any such Awards an amount (payable in such proportion as the Committee may determine in cash or in Stock (valued at the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of cancellation of such Award)) equal to (i) for Options, the number of shares of Stock subject to such cancelled Option, multiplied by the amount (if any) by which the Fair Market Value of Stock on the date of cancellation of the Option exceeds the Option Exercise Price; (ii) for Restricted Stock or Performance Stock, the number of shares of Restricted Stock or Performance Stock multiplied by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the date of cancellation of the Award; and (iii) for Restricted Stock Units or Performance Units, the number of units multiplied by an amount not less than the initial value thereof; , , the Committee shall not exercise discretion and pay the holder of any Award in cash or Stock to the extent such Award constitutes deferred compensation for purposes of Section 409A.  Amounts payable may be prorated based upon the number of months elapsed in any related vesting period or Performance Period, in the sole discretion of the Committee.  Except in connection with a corporate transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, large, nonrecurring cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off
provided
however
 
Notwithstanding the general authority of the Committee to
3.3
                           
Delegation of Authority. 
 
grant Awards under the Plan, the Board may, by resolution, expressly delegate to another committee, established by the Board and consisting of one or more employee or non-employee directors, the authority, within parameters specified by the Board, to determine the Eligible Persons to receive Awards; to determine when Awards may be granted and to grant Awards under the Plan; to determine the size and types of Awards; and to determine the terms and conditions of such Awards; provided, however that such committee may not grant Awards to Eligible Persons who (i) are subject to Section 16of the Exchange Act at the time of grant, or (ii) are at the time of grant, or are anticipated to become during the term of the Award, "covered employees" as defined in Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.  Such committee shall report regularly to the Committee, who shall report to the Board, regarding any Awards so granted.
 
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Company shall have no liability to deliver any Stock or benefits under the Plan unless such delivery would comply with all applicable laws (including, without limitation, the Code, the Securities Act, and the Exchange Act) and applicable requirements of any securities exchange or similar entity and unless the Participant's tax obligations have been satisfied as set forth in Article 16.
.4
3
                           
Delivery of Stock by Company; Restrictions on Stock
 
The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Stock acquired pursuant to Awards under the Plan as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions to comply with applicable Federal securities laws, with the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Stock is then listed and/or traded and with any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Stock.
 
.  All determinations and decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and all related orders or resolutions of the Board shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders, Eligible Persons, Employees, Participants and their Beneficiaries and estates.  No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award.
.5
3
                           
Decisions Binding
 
. The Company shall pay all costs of administration of the Plan.
.6
3
                           
Costs
 
Article 4.
Stock Subject to the Plan
                                  
 
.  Subject to Section 4.2 herein, the maximum number of shares of Stock available for grant under the Plan shall be 70,380,000 shares (which includes the 37,000,000 shares originally provided in the Plan as approved by stockholders in 2001, as increased to 49,000,000 shares as approved by stockholders in 2006) plus any shares of Stock remaining for awards pursuant to the terms of The Allstate Corporation Equity Incentive Plan.  The number of shares of Stock to which an Award pertains shall be counted against the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 as two and one-tenth (2.1) shares of Stock for each Full Value Award and as one (1) share of Stock for each other type of Award.  Shares of Stock underlying lapsed or forfeited Awards of Restricted Stock shall not be treated as having been issued pursuant to an Award under the Plan.  Shares of Stock thatare potentially deliverable under an Award that expires or is cancelled, forfeited, settled in cash or otherwise settled without delivery of shares of Stock shall not be treated as having been issued under the Plan.  With respect to an SAR that is settled in Stock, the full
.1
4
                           
Number of Shares
 
number of shares underlying the exercised portion of the SAR shall be treated as having been issued under the Plan, regardless of the number of shares used to settle the SAR upon exercise.  Shares of Stock that are tendered or withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations related to an Award or to satisfy the Option Exercise Price related to an Option or other Award shall be deemed to be shares of Stock issued under the Plan.  If, before June 30, 2003, the Option Exercise Price is satisfied by tendering Stock, only the number of shares issued net of the shares tendered shall be deemed issued under the Plan.  For avoidance of doubt, if a share of Stock that underlies an Award other than a Full-Value Award was counted against the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 and pursuant to this Section 4.1 subsequently is treated as having not been issued under the Plan, the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 shall be credited with one share of Stock, and if a share of Stock pertaining to a Full-Value Award was counted against the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 and pursuant to this Section 4.1 subsequently is treated as having not been issued under the Plan, the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 shall be credited with 2.1 shares of Stock.  Stock granted pursuant to the Plan may be (i) authorized but unissued shares of common stock or (ii) treasury stock.
 
.  In the event of any equity restructuring (within the meaning of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004)) that causes the per share value of shares of Stock to change, such as a stock dividend, stock split, spin off, rights offering, or recapitalization through a large, nonrecurring cash dividend, the Committee shall cause there to be made an equitable adjustment to (i) the number and kind of shares available for grant under the Plan, (ii) the number of shares or Awards that may be granted to any individual under the Plan or that may be granted pursuant to any Articles or types of Awards and (iii) the number and kind of shares or units subject to and the Option Exercise Price or Base Value (if applicable) of any then outstanding Awards of or related to shares of Stock.  In the event of any other change in corporate capitalization, such as a merger, consolidation, any reorganization (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition of such term in Section 368 of the Code) or any partial or complete liquidation of the Company, such equitable adjustments described in the foregoing sentence shall be made as may be determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights.  In either case, any such adjustment shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of the Plan.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board upon recommendation of the Committee, the number of shares of Stock subject to an Award shall always be a whole number.  In no event shall an outstanding Option or SAR be amended for the sole purpose of reducing the Option Exercise Price or Base Value thereof, without stockholder approval.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) each such adjustment with respect to an Incentive Stock Option shall comply with the rules of Section 424(a) of the Code and (ii) in no event shall any adjustment be made which would render any Incentive Stock Option granted hereunder to be other than an incentive stock option for purposes of Section 422 of the Code.
.2
4
        
Adjustments in Authorized Stock and Awards
 
.  Subject to Section 4.2 above, the following limitations shall apply to Awards intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation: (i) the total number of shares of Stock with respect to which Options or SARs may be granted in any calendar year to any Participant shall not exceed 4,000,000 shares; (ii) the total number of shares of Qualified Restricted Stock or Qualified Restricted Stock Units that may be granted in any calendar year to any Participant shall not exceed 3,000,000 shares or Units, as the case may be; (iii) the total number of shares of Performance Stock that may be granted in any calendar year to any Participant shall not exceed
.3
4
        
Award Limitations
 
4,000,000 shares and the maximum amount that may be paid pursuant to Performance Units granted in any one calendar year to any Participant shall not exceed $10,000,000; (iv) the total number of shares of Stock granted pursuant to Article 10 herein in any calendar year to any Participant shall not exceed 4,000,000 shares; (v) the total cash Award that may be paid pursuant to an Award granted under Article 10 herein in any calendar year to any Participant shall not exceed $10,000,000; and (vi) the aggregate value of cash dividends (other than large, nonrecurring cash dividends) or Dividend Equivalents that a Participant may receive in any calendar year shall not exceed $11,500,000.
 
The maximum number of shares of Stock that may be issued pursuant to Incentive Stock Options shall be 5,500,000 shares.
 
Article 5.         Eligibility and Participation
 
.1       .  Persons eligible to participate in the Plan ("Eligible Persons") include all Employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries, as determined by the Committee.
5
Eligibility
 
.2       . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all Eligible Persons those to whom Awards shall be granted.
5
Actual Participation
 
Article 6.         Stock Options
 
.1       .  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Options may be granted to an Eligible Person at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.
6
Grant of Options
 
The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of shares of Stock subject to Options granted to each Eligible Person (subject to Article 4 herein) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such Options.  The Committee may grant ISOs, NQSOs or a combination thereof.
 
.2       .  Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Option Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Exercise Price, the term of the Option (which shall not be greater than ten (10) years), the number of shares of Stock to which the Option pertains, the Exercise Period and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine, including but not limited to special provisions relating to a change of control.  The Option Award Agreement shall also specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or NQSO.  The Option Exercise Price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date of grant.  No Dividend Equivalents shall be provided with respect to Options.
6
Option Award Agreement
 
.3       .  Options granted under the Plan shall be exercisable at such times and shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve.
6
Exercise of and Payment for Options
 
A Participant may exercise an Option at any time during the Exercise Period.  Options shall be exercised by the delivery of a written notice of exercise to the Company, or such method
 
acceptable to the Company, setting forth the number of shares of Stock with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by provision for full payment of the Stock.
 
The Option Exercise Price shall be payable:  (i) in cash or its equivalent, (ii) by tendering (by actual delivery of shares or by attestation) previously acquired Stock (owned for at least six months) having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Exercise Price, (iii) by broker-assisted cashless exercise, (iv) with respect to Options granted on and after May 16, 2006, by share withholding or (v) by a combination of (i), (ii), (iii) and/or (iv).
 
Options may not be exercised for less than 25 shares of Stock unless the exercise represents the entire remaining balance of the Award.
 
Stock received upon exercise of an Option may be granted subject to restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee.
 
.4       .  The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement with respect to an Option granted prior to 2004 that a Participant who exercises all or any portion of an Option with Stock which has a Fair Market Value equal to not less than 100% of the Option Exercise Price for such Option shall be granted, subject to Article 4, an additional option ("Reload Option") for a number of shares of Stock equal to the sum ("Reload Number") of the number of shares of Stock tendered in payment of the Option Exercise Price for the Options plus, if so provided by the Committee, the number of shares of Stock, if any, retained by the Company in connection with the exercise of the Options to satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding requirements.  Reload Options may not be included in any Option Awards granted in 2004 or later.
6
Reload Options Related to Options Granted Prior to 2004
 
To the extent that a Reload Option is granted upon exercise of Options granted prior to 2004, the Reload Options shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
(i)         the grant date for each Reload Option shall be the date of exercise of the Option to which it relates;
 
(ii)        subject to (iii) below, the Reload Option, upon vesting, may be exercised at any time during the unexpired term of the Option to which it relates (subject to earlier termination thereof as provided in the Plan and in the applicable Award Agreement); and
 
(iii)       the terms of the Reload Option shall be the same as the terms of the Option to which it relates, except that (A) the Option Exercise Price shall be the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the grant date of the Reload Option and (B) the Reload Option shall be subject to new vesting provisions, commencing one (1) year after the grant date of the Reload Option and vesting upon the same schedule as the Option to which it relates.
 
Reload Options may not be granted to Participants who exercise Options after a Termination of Employment.
Stock subject to this Plan may be used for Reload Options granted under The Allstate Corporation Equity Incentive Plan.
 
.5       .  Each Option Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee (subject to applicable law), shall be included in the Option Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all Options granted pursuant to the Plan or among Participants and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
6
Termination
 
To the extent the Option Award Agreement does not set forth termination provisions, the provisions of Article 13 shall control.
 
.6       .  Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, all Options granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant, and no Option granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  ISOs are not transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The Committee shall have the authority, in its discretion, to grant (or to sanction by way of amendment to an existing Award) Nonqualified Stock Options, the vested portions of which may be transferred by the Participant during his lifetime to any Family Member.  A transfer of an Option pursuant hereto may only be effected by the Company at the written request of a Participant and shall become effective only when recorded in the Company's record of outstanding Options.  In the event an Option is transferred as contemplated herein, any Reload Options associated with such transferred Option shall terminate, and such transferred Option may not be subsequently transferred by the transferee except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  Otherwise, a transferred Option shall continue to be governed by and subject to the terms and limitations of the Plan and the relevant Award Agreement, and the transferee shall be entitled to the same rights as the Participant, as if no transfer had taken place.  In no event shall an Option be transferred for consideration.
6
Transferability of Options
 
6.7       (a)  Each Participant may designate a Beneficiary who shall have the right to exercise the Option in the event of the Participant's death.  Participants shall designate a Beneficiary by executing a Beneficiary Designation Form.  A Beneficiary designation is not binding on the Company unless it receives a properly completed Beneficiary Designation Form prior to the Participant's death.  If no designation is made or no designated Beneficiary is alive (or in the case of an entity designated as a Beneficiary, in existence) at the time of the Participant's death, the executor or personal representative of the Participant's estate shall have the right to exercise the Option.  If there is any question as to the legal right of any Beneficiary to exercise the Option under the Plan, the Company may determine in its sole discretion whether to provide the right of exercise to the executor or personal representative of the Participant's estate.  The Company's determination shall be binding and conclusive on all persons and it will have no further liability to anyone with respect to such Option.
Designation of Beneficiary. 
 
(b) . A Participant may change an earlier Beneficiary designation by executing a later Beneficiary Designation Form. The execution of a Beneficiary Designation Form revokes and rescinds any prior Beneficiary Designation Form.
Change of Beneficiary Designation
 
Article 7.         Stock Appreciation Rights
 
.1       .  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, an SAR may be granted to an Eligible Person at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee.  The Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs or any combination of these forms of SARs.
7
Grant of SARs
 
The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Eligible Person (subject to Article 4 herein) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs.
 
the term of the SAR (which shall not be greater than ten (10) years), the Exercise Period and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine, including but not limited to special provisions relating to a change of control.  No Dividend Equivalents shall be provided with respect to SARs.
.2       .  Each SAR grant shall be evidenced by an SAR Award Agreement that shall specify the number of SARs granted, the Base Value (which shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant),
7
SAR Award Agreement
 
.3       .  Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or part of the Stock subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option.  A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the shares of Stock for which its related Option is then exercisable.
7
Exercise and Payment of SARs
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, with respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an ISO:  (i) the Tandem SAR will expire no later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (ii) the value of the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR may be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the Option Exercise Price of the underlying ISO and the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock subject to the underlying ISO at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised; (iii) the Tandem SAR may be exercised only when the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock subject to the ISO exceeds the Option Exercise Price of the ISO; and (iv) the Tandem SAR may be transferred only when the underlying ISO is transferable, and under the same conditions.
 
Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes upon them.
 
A Participant may exercise an SAR at any time during the Exercise Period.  SARs shall be exercised by the delivery of a written notice of exercise to the Company, or such method acceptable to the Company, setting forth the number of SARs being exercised.  Upon exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount equal to the product of:
 
the excess of (i) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise over (ii) the Base Value multiplied by
(a)
                              
 
the number of shares of Stock with respect to which the SAR is exercised.
(b)
                             
 
At the sole discretion of the Committee, the payment to the Participant upon SAR exercise may be in cash, in shares of Stock of equivalent value or in some combination thereof.
 
.4       .  Each SAR Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participant's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the SAR Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all SARs granted pursuant to the Plan or among Participants and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
7
Termination
 
To the extent the SAR Award Agreement does not set forth termination provisions, the provisions of Article 13 shall control.
 
.5       .  Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, all SARs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or his or her legal representative, and no SAR granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  To the extent the Committee permits the transfer of an SAR, in no event shall an SAR be transferred for consideration.
7
Transferability of SARs
 
Article 8.         Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock
and Restricted Stock Units
 
.1       . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units may be granted to an Eligible Person at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.
8
Grant of Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
 
The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of shares of Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted to each Eligible Person (subject to Article 4 herein) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such Awards.
 
In addition, the Committee may, prior to or at the time of grant, designate an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units as Qualified Restricted Stock or Qualified Restricted Stock Units, as the case may be, in which event it will condition the grant or vesting, as applicable, of such Qualified Restricted Stock or Qualified Restricted Stock Units, as the case may be, upon the attainment of the Performance Goals selected by the Committee.
 
.2       .  Each grant of Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the number of shares of Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock
8
Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock/Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement
 
and/or Restricted Stock Units granted, the initial value (if applicable), the Period or Periods of Restriction (if applicable), and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine, including but not limited to special provisions relating to a change of control.
 
.3       .  Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction established by the Committee and specified in the Award Agreement.  During the applicable Period of Restriction, all rights with respect to the Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be available during his or her lifetime only to such Participant or his or her legal representative.
8
Transferability
 
.4       .  No certificates representing Stock shall be delivered to a Participant until such time as all restrictions applicable to such shares have been satisfied.
8
Certificates
 
.5       .  Restricted Stock shall become freely transferable by the Participant after the last day of the Period of Restriction applicable thereto.  Once Restricted Stock is released from the restrictions, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a certificate.
8
Removal of Restrictions
 
Payment of Restricted Stock Units shall be made after the last day of the Period of Restriction applicable thereto.  The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay Restricted Stock Units in cash or in shares of Stock of equivalent value (or in some combination thereof).
 
.6       .  During the Period of Restriction, Participants may exercise full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Stock.
8
Voting Rights
 
.7       .  Subject to the Committee's right to determine otherwise at the time of grant, during the Period of Restriction, Participants shall receive all cash dividends, other than large, nonrecurring cash dividends, paid with respect to the Restricted Stock while they are so held.  All other distributions paid with respect to such Restricted Stock shall be credited to Participants subject to the same restrictions on transferability and forfeitability as the Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid and shall be paid to the Participant promptly after the full vesting of the Restricted Stock with respect to which such distributions were made.
8
Dividends and Other Distributions
 
Rights, if any, to Dividend Equivalents on Restricted Stock Units shall be established by the Committee at the time of grant and set forth in the Award Agreement.
 
.8       .  Each Restricted Stock/Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive Restricted Stock and/or a Restricted Stock Unit payment following termination of the Participant's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all grants of Restricted Stock/Restricted Stock Units or among Participants and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
8
Termination
 
To the extent the Restricted Stock/Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement does not set forth termination provisions, the provisions of Article 13 shall control.
Article 9.         Performance Units and Performance Stock
 
.1       .  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Performance Units and/or Performance Stock may be granted to an Eligible Person at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.
9
Grant of Performance Units and Performance Stock
 
The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of Performance Units and/or shares of Performance Stock granted to each Eligible Person (subject to Article 4 herein) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such Awards.
 
.2       .  Each grant of Performance Units and/or shares of Performance Stock shall be evidenced by a Performance Unit and/or Performance Stock Award Agreement that shall specify the number of Performance Units and/or shares of Performance Stock granted, the initial value (if applicable), the Performance Period, the Performance Goals and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine, including but not limited to special provisions relating to a change of control and any rights to Dividend Equivalents.
9
Performance Unit/Performance Stock Award Agreement
 
.3       .  Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee at the time of grant.  The value of a share of Performance Stock shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the Stock.  The Committee shall set Performance Goals in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number and/or value of Performance Units/Performance Stock that will be paid out to the Participants.
9
Value of Performance Units/Performance Stock
 
.4       .  After the applicable Performance Period has ended, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a payout with respect to the Performance Units/Performance Stock earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding Performance Goals have been achieved.
9
Earning of Performance Units/Performance Stock
 
.5       .  Payment of earned Performance Units/Performance Stock shall be made following the close of the applicable Performance Period.  The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units/Performance Stock in cash or in Stock (or in a combination thereof), which has an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the value of the earned Performance Units/Performance Stock at the close of the applicable Performance Period.  Such Stock may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee.
9
Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Performance Stock
 
.6       .  Each Performance Unit/Performance Stock Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive a Performance Unit/Performance Stock payment following termination of the Participant's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries during a Performance Period.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all grants of Performance Units/Performance Stock or among Participants and may reflect distinctions based on reasons for termination.
9
Termination
 
To the extent the Performance Unit/Performance Stock Award Agreement does not set forth termination provisions, the provisions of Article 13 shall control.
 
.  Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, a Participant's rights with respect to Performance Units/Performance Stock granted under the Plan shall be available during the Participant's lifetime only to such Participant or the Participant's legal representative and Performance Units/Performance Stock may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  To the extent the Committee permits the transfer of Performance Units/Performance Stock, in no event shall Performance Units/Performance Stock be transferred for consideration.
.7
9
                           
Transferability
 
Article 10.
Other Awards
                          
 
The Committee shall have the right to grant other Awards which may include, without limitation, the payment of Stock in lieu of cash, the payment of cash based on attainment of Performance Goals established by the Committee and the payment of Stock in lieu of cash under other Company incentive or bonus programs.  Payment under or settlement of any such Awards shall be made in such manner and at such times as the Committee may determine.
 
Article 11.
Deferrals
                          
 
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit a Participant to defer the Participant's receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Stock that would otherwise be due to such Participant under the Plan.  If any such deferral election is permitted, the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, establish rules and procedures for such payment deferrals.
 
Article 12.
Rights of Participants
                          
 
. Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate any Participant's employment or other relationship with the Company or any Subsidiary at any time, for any reason or no reason in the Company's or the Subsidiary's sole discretion, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of, or otherwise in any relationship with, the Company or any Subsidiary.
.1
12
                   
Termination
 
.  No Eligible Person shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under the Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
.2
12
                   
Participation
 
.  Neither a Participant nor any other Person shall, by reason of the Plan, acquire any right in or title to any assets, funds or property of the Company or any Subsidiary whatsoever, including, without limitation, any specific funds, assets or other property which the Company or any Subsidiary, in its sole discretion, may set aside in anticipation of a liability under the Plan.  A Participant shall have only a contractual right to the Stock or amounts, if any, payable under the Plan, unsecured by any assets of the Company or any Subsidiary.  Nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a guarantee that the assets of such companies shall be sufficient to pay any benefits to any Person.
.3
12
                   
Limitation of Implied Rights
Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, no Award under the Plan shall confer upon the holder thereof any right as a stockholder of the Company prior to the date on which the individual fulfills all conditions for receipt of such rights.
 
.  Each Participant, by acceptance of an Award, waives all rights to specific performance or injunctive or other equitable relief and acknowledges that he has an adequate remedy at law in the form of damages.
.4
12
                   
Waiver
 
Article 13.
Termination of Employment
                          
 
If a Participant has a Termination of Employment, then, unless otherwise provided by the Committee or in the Award Agreement, all Awards shall terminate and be forfeited on the date of such Termination of Employment.
 
Article 14.
                          
Equity Incentive Plans of Foreign Subsidiaries
 
The Committee may authorize any foreign Subsidiary to adopt a plan for granting Awards ("Foreign Equity Incentive Plan") and awards granted under such Foreign Equity Incentive Plans may be treated as grants under the Plan, if the Committee so determines.  Such Foreign Equity Incentive Plans shall have such terms and provisions as the Committee permits not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan and which may be more restrictive than those contained in the Plan.  Awards granted under such Foreign Equity Incentive Plans shall be governed by the terms of the Plan except to the extent that the provisions of the Foreign Equity Incentive Plans are more restrictive than the terms of the Plan, in which case such terms of the Foreign Equity Incentive Plans shall control.
 
Article 15.
Amendment, Modification and Termination
                          
 
The Board may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part, provided that no amendment shall be made which shall increase the total number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan, materially modify the requirements for participation in the Plan, or materially increase the benefits accruing to Participants under the Plan, in each case unless such amendment is approved by the stockholders of the Company.
 
No termination, amendment or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award, unless such termination, modification or amendment is required by applicable law and except as otherwise provided herein.
Article 16.
Payment for Awards and Withholding
                          
 
.  In the event a Participant elects to pay the Option Exercise Price or make payment for any other Award through tender of previously acquired Stock, (i) only a whole number of share(s) of Stock (and not fractional shares of Stock) may be tendered in payment, (ii) such Participant must present evidence acceptable to the Company that he has owned any such shares of Stock tendered in payment (and that such shares of Stock tendered have not been subject to any substantial risk of forfeiture) for at least six months prior to the date of exercise and (iii) Stock must be tendered to the Company, either by actual delivery of the shares or by attestation.  When payment is made by tender of Stock, the difference, if any, between the aggregate amount payable and the Fair Market Value of the share(s) of Stock tendered in payment (plus any applicable taxes) shall be paid by check.  No Participant may tender shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value exceeding the aggregate Option Exercise Price or other payment due.
.1
16
                   
Payment for Awards
 
.  The Committee may, on the grant date or any later date, prohibit a Participant from making the election described below.  If the Committee has not prohibited such Participant from making such election, and the Participant shall, in connection with the exercise of any Option, or the grant of any share of Restricted Stock, make the election permitted under Section 83(b) of the Code (i.e., an election to include in such Participant's gross income in the year of transfer the amounts specified in Section 83(b) of the Code), such Participant shall notify the Company of such election within 10 days of filing notice of the election with the Internal Revenue Service, in addition to any filing and notification required pursuant to regulations issued under the authority of Section 83(b) of the Code.
.2
16
                   
Notification under Section 83(b)
 
.  The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount (including any Stock withheld as provided below) sufficient to satisfy Federal, state and local taxes (including the Participant's FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to an Award made under the Plan.
.3
16
                   
Tax Withholding
 
.  With respect to tax withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or upon any other taxable event arising out of or as a result of Awards granted hereunder, Participants may elect to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by tendering Stock held by the Participant (by actual delivery of the shares or by attestation) or by having the Company withhold Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum statutory total tax which could be imposed on the transaction.  All elections shall be irrevocable, made in writing (or other method acceptable to the Company) and signed by the Participant.  In the event a Participant fails to make an election by the date required, the Participant will be deemed to have made an election to have the Company withhold Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum statutory total tax which could be imposed on the transaction.
.4
16
                   
Stock Withholding
Article 17.
Repayment of Awards, Non-Solicitation, and Non-Competition
                          
 
.In the event of a restatement of the Company's financial results to correct a material error or inaccuracy resulting in whole or in part from the fraud or intentional misconduct of a Section 16 Officer, as determined by the Board or a committee thereof, the Board or the committee may, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
17.1
                   
Restatements
 
 
cancel or cause to be cancelled any or all of the Section 16 Officer's outstanding Awards granted after May 19, 2009;
(i)
                                  
 
recover or cause to be recovered any or all "Proceeds" (as defined below) resulting from any sale or other disposition (including to the Company) of shares of Stock issued or issuable upon vesting, settlement or exercise, as the case may be, of any Award granted after May 19, 2009, plus a reasonable rate of interest; and/or
(ii)
                               
 
recover or cause to be recovered any cash paid or shares of Stock issued to the Participant in connection with any vesting, settlement or exercise of an Award granted after May 19, 2009, plus a reasonable rate of interest.
(iii)
                            
 
The term "Proceeds" means, with respect to any sale or other disposition (including to the Company) of shares of Stock acquired pursuant to an Award, an amount determined by the Committee, (a) in the case of an Award other than an Option, SAR or cash-settled Award, up to the amount equal to the Fair Market Value per share of Stock at the time of such sale or other disposition multiplied by the number of shares sold or disposed of, or (b) in the case of an Option or SAR, up to the amount equal to the number of shares of Stock sold or disposed of multiplied by the excess of the Fair Market Value per share of Stock at the time of such sale or disposition over the Option Exercise Price or Base Value, as applicable.  The return of Proceeds is in addition to and separate from any other relief available to the Company or any other actions as may be taken by the Committee in its sole discretion.  Any determination by the Committee with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive and binding on all interested parties.
 
.  While employed and for the one-year period following termination of employment, any Participant who has received an Award under the Plan shall not, directly or indirectly:
17.2
                   
Non-Solicitation
 
other than in connection with the good-faith performance of his or her normal duties and responsibilities as an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary, encourage any employee or agent of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate his or her relationship with the Company or any Subsidiary;
(i)
                                  
 
employ, engage as a consultant or adviser, or solicit the employment or engagement as a consultant or adviser of, any employee or agent of the Company or Subsidiary (other than by the Company or its Subsidiaries), or cause or encourage any Person to do any of the foregoing;
(ii)
                               
 
establish (or take preliminary steps to establish) a business with, or encourage others to establish (or take preliminary steps to establish) a business with, any employee or exclusive agent independent contractor of the Company or its Subsidiaries; or
(iii)
                            
 
interfere with the relationship of the Company or its Subsidiaries with, or endeavor to entice away from the Company or its Subsidiaries, any Person who or which at any time since the Participant's hire date was or is a material customer or material supplier of, or maintained a material business relationship with, the Company or its Subsidiaries.
(iv)
                           
 
If a Participant violates any of the non-solicitation provisions set forth above, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Board or a committee thereof may, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
 
cancel or cause to be cancelled any or all of the Participant's outstanding Awards granted after May 19, 2009;
(i)
                                  
 
recover or cause to be recovered any or all Proceeds resulting from any sale or other disposition (including to the Company) of shares of Stock issued or issuable upon vesting, settlement or exercise, as the case may be, of any Award granted after May 19, 2009 if the sale or disposition was effected on or after the date that is one year prior to the date on which the Participant first violated the non-solicitation provision(s); and/or
(ii)
                               
 
recover or cause to be recovered any cash paid or shares of Stock issued to the Participant in connection with any vesting, settlement or exercise of an Award granted after May 19, 2009 if the vesting, settlement or exercise occurred on or after the date that is one year prior to the date on which the Participant first violated the non-solicitation provision(s).
(iii)
                            
 
.  Any Participant who has received an Award under the Plan on or after February 21, 2012, that remains subject to a Period of Restriction or other performance or vesting condition, shall not, for the two-year period following Termination of Employment, directly or indirectly engage in, own or control an interest in or act as principal, director, officer, or employee of, or consultant to, any firm or company that is a Competitive Business.  "Competitive Business" is defined as a business that designs, develops, markets, or sells a product, product line, or service that competes with any product, product line, or service of the division in which Participant works.  This section is not meant to prevent Participant from earning a living, but rather to protect the Company's legitimate business interests.  A Participant is not subject to this non-competition provision if:
17.3
                   
Non-Competition
 
employed in any jurisdiction where the applicable law prohibits such non-competition provision; or
(i)
           
 
Termination of Employment occurs during a Post-Change Period (as defined in the applicable Award Agreement) and:
(ii)
          
 
the Participant's Termination of Employment is initiated by the Employer other than for Cause (as defined in the applicable Award Agreement), death, or Disability, or
(A)
                          
the Participant is a participant in The Allstate Corporation Change in Control Severance Plan and the Participant's Termination of Employment is initiated by the Participant for Good Reason (as defined in the applicable Award Agreement).
(B)
                           
 
If a Participant violates the non-competition provision set forth above, the Board or a committee thereof may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, cancel or cause to be cancelled any or all of the Participant's outstanding Awards granted on or after February 21, 2012, that remain subject to a Period of Restriction or other performance or vesting condition as of the date on which the Participant first violated the non-competition provision.
 
.  Nothing contained in this Article 17 shall be deemed to (i) limit any additional legal or equitable rights or remedies the Company may have under applicable law with respect to any Participant who may have caused or contributed to the Company's need to restate its financial results or who may have violated the non-solicitation or non-competition provisions in the Plan or in any other plan, policy, agreement or arrangement or (ii) affect any other non-solicitation, non-competition, or other restrictive covenants to which a Participant is subject.
17.4
                   
No Limitation on Other Rights
 
Article 18.
Successors
                          
 
All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
 
Article 19.
Legal Construction
                          
 
.   Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
19.1
                   
Gender and Number
 
.  In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
19.2
                   
Severability
 
.  The granting of Awards and the issuance of Stock under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
19.3
                   
Requirements of Law
 
.  To the extent not preempted by Federal law, the Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the State of Delaware, except with regard to conflicts of law provisions.
19.4
                   
Governing Law
 
.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Plan and any Awards granted hereunder comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and any related regulations or other guidance promulgated with respect to such Section by the U.S.
19.5
                   
Code Section 409A Compliance
Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service ("Section 409A") and the Plan and any Awards granted under the Plan shall be interpreted and construed in a manner consistent with such intent.


