FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20120607200724.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]        Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR   230.425)
 
[  ]        Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
 
On June 7, 2012, the Registrant issued a press release announcing the selection of Susie Lees as executive vice president and general counsel of The Allstate Corporation, effective as of June 7, 2012, and the retirement of Michele Coleman Mayes as executive vice president and general counsel.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this report.
 
Item 9.01.       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)        Exhibits
 
 
99         Registrant's press release dated June 7, 2012
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
NORTHBROOK, Ill.,
June 7, 2012  The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) today announced that Susie Lees, 54, has been named executive vice president and general counsel. After 30 years in the private sector, Michele Coleman Mayes, 62, executive vice president and general counsel, is retiring from her corporate career to leverage her capabilities in the nonprofit sector.
 
Lees brings 24 years of experience at Allstate to the position and is currently senior vice president, Allstate Financial law and deputy general counsel. She has held a variety of legal positions within Allstate and has successfully led many key initiatives. She holds an A.B. degree in political science from Brown University and a J.D. from the University of Oklahoma College of Law.
 
"Susie's breadth of experience, legal expertise and leadership skills will further build on the success of a legal team that rivals major law firms in scope and capabilities," said Thomas J. Wilson, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
 
During her tenure as general counsel, Mayes guided Allstate on legal and regulatory matters, public policy and corporate governance while championing inclusive diversity and the highest ethical standards.
 
"Michele has been a great partner over the last five years as we have proactively addressed the challenges from the financial market meltdown, embraced new regulatory requirements and taken action to improve returns in homeowners insurance," Wilson said. "She has also been a fabulous ambassador as we work to help victims of domestic violence."
 
"My experience at Allstate has been very rewarding and I'm proud of the legal team's accomplishments in advancing the company and supporting the communities we serve across the country," Mayes said. "With Allstate's strategy, leadership team and breadth of talent, I'm confident the company will build on its legacy of success."
 
"We know Michele's leadership and legal expertise will enable her to make a significant difference in the nonprofit world and we wish her well," Wilson concluded.
 
The Allstate Corporation
(NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer, serving approximately 16 million households through its Allstate, Encompass, Esurance and
Answer Financial brand names. Widely known by its slogan "You're In Good Hands With Allstate
," Allstate offers insurance products (auto, home, life and retirement) and services through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives, as well as via and 1-800 Allstate
www.allstate.com
. As part of to strengthen local communities, The Allstate Foundation, Allstate employees, agency owners and the corporation provided $28 million in 2011 to thousands of nonprofit organizations and important causes across the United States.
Allstate's commitment


