FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20121115090752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]
                             
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]
                             
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]
                             
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
[  ]
                             
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On November 15, 2012, the Registrant issued a press release regarding its estimated catastrophe losses for October 2012. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference. The press release is furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)       Exhibits
 
Exhibit No.
                                                                                                                    
Description
 
Registrant's press release dated November 15, 2012. The press release is furnished and not filed, pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
99
                                                                                                                                                                               
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
NEWS
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
NORTHBROOK, Ill., Nov. 15, 2012  The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) today announced that estimated catastrophe losses for the month of October 2012 will exceed $150 million, but an estimate cannot be made at this time. The company's practice is to release an estimate of monthly catastrophe losses on the third Thursday following month-end when the amount exceeds $150 million. Allstate will issue a catastrophe loss estimate for October when losses from Sandy can be estimated.
 
The Allstate Corporation
(NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer, serving approximately 16 million households through its Allstate, Encompass, Esurance and Answer Financial brand names and Allstate Financial business segment. Allstate branded insurance products (auto, home, life and retirement) and services are offered through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives, as well as via and 1-800 Allstate
www.allstate.com
, and are widely known through the slogan "You're In Good Hands With Allstate
.
 
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This news release contains forward-looking statements about catastrophe losses.  These statements are based on our estimates and assumptions that are subject to uncertainty.  These statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements in this news release for a variety of reasons, including the following:
  
Our policyholders' ability to report and our ability to adjust claims have been impeded by the extent of the devastation and the number of areas affected; restrictions on access to the affected areas; gasoline shortages; and large areas of electricity outages.
  
It is particularly difficult to assess the extent of damage in the initial stages of adjusting residential property losses.
  
Our estimate for costs of repairs may prove to be incorrect because of increased demand for services and supplies in the areas affected by the catastrophes.
  
The number of incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims may be greater or less than currently anticipated.
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 


