FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20120227164159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (847) 402-5000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 26, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Registrant appointed Steven E. Shebik as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Don Civgin (until this appointment, the Chief Financial Officer of the Registrant) as President of Allstate Financial, and Matthew E. Winter (until this appointment, President of Allstate Financial and a named executive officer) as President of Allstate Auto, Home and Agencies.  Mr. Civgin will also retain responsibility for the Esurance companies.  Each appointment is effective February 27, 2012.
Mr. Shebik, age 55, was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Allstate Investments from January 2009 until February 27, 2012, prior to which he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of both the Registrants Allstate Protection segment, from 2005 to December 2008, and Allstate Financial segment, from 2003 to 2005.  Between 2002 and 2003, he was Senior Vice President, Accounting, Financial Systems & Integration, of the Registrant.  Previously, Mr. Shebik held various positions within the Registrant as an Assistant Treasurer and a vice president in finance and in mergers and acquisitions from 1995 to 2002.
On February 27, 2012, the Registrant issued a press release announcing the appointments, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99 to this report.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits
                                            
Exhibit No.
Description
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 27, 2012
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
4
 

 
 
 
NEWS
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Contact:   Brian Faith
(847) 402-5600
 
 
 
 
February 27, 2012  The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas J. Wilson today announced senior leadership changes at the company. Matt Winter is named president, Allstate Auto, Home and Agencies, Don Civgin becomes president, Allstate Financial, and Steve Shebik is promoted to chief financial officer.
Northbrook, Ill.,
 
In his new role, Winter will lead Allstates personal lines businesses that provide auto and home insurance through Allstate agencies. Winter was previously senior executive vice president, Insurance Operations, and president and chief executive officer, Allstate Financial. He successfully repositioned the Allstate Financial business by shifting its focus to underwritten products sold through Allstate agencies and the workplace.
 
Prior to these changes, Mark LaNeve, senior executive vice president, agency operations and chief marketing officer, had resigned for personal reasons.
 
I regret having to leave Allstate since our strategy and hard work are beginning to pay off, said LaNeve. Allstate is a great company with an awesome brand, a winning strategy and strong leadership. Tom Wilson has set a bold course by focusing on differentiating products for unique customer segments. I will be cheering as they continue to build on a fabulous franchise.
 
"Mark's resignation was a personal one, Wilson said. Mark and Matt have made tremendous progress together over the last five months, working as a team to establish the priorities for the Allstate Auto, Home and Agencies organization. We accept Marks decision and are confident in the abilities of our strong leadership team to generate results that will have Allstate win in the marketplace."    
 
Civgin assumes the leadership responsibilities for Allstate Financial, building on the strong progress Matt Winter has made over the last three years. Civgin has been chief financial officer since 2009 and has significantly expanded risk management capabilities, proactively managed the companys capital and led the acquisition of Esurance and Answer Financial. Civgin will continue to oversee the Esurance and Answer Financial management teams.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With Civgins change in roles, Shebik is being promoted to chief financial officer. Shebik will continue efforts to expand risk management functions and effectively manage the companys capital. He has held senior finance roles in property and casualty, Allstate Financial, investments and treasury areas over the last 16 years.
 
Steve Verney will remain as chief risk officer and is being promoted to the senior leadership team. He will report to Wilson. Verney began his Allstate career in 1981 and has served in a broad array of positions, including vice president, treasurer and vice president, finance for both Allstate Protection and Allstate Financial.
 
This new structure leverages our strong leadership team, is consistent with our strategy of providing differentiated products and services for unique customer segments and will drive focus on our 2012 operating priorities, said Wilson.
 
(NYSE: ALL) is the nations largest publicly held personal lines insurer. Widely known through the Youre In Good Hands With Allstate slogan, Allstate is reinventing protection and retirement to help nearly 16 million households insure what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow. Consumers access Allstate insurance products (auto, home, life and retirement) and services through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives in the U.S. and Canada, as well as via and 1-800 Allstate. As part of to strengthen local communities, The Allstate Foundation, Allstate employees, agency owners and the corporation provided $28 million in 2011 to thousands of nonprofit organizations and important causes across the United States.
The Allstate Corporation
www.allstate.com
Allstates commitment
 


