FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20120719090827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]
                             
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]
                             
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]
                             
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
[  ]
                             
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On July 19, 2012, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its estimated catastrophe losses for June 2012 and for the second quarter of 2012.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.  The press release is furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
Date:    July 19, 2012

Exhibit 99
NEWS
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
NORTHBROOK, Ill., July 19, 2012 - The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) today announced estimated catastrophe losses for the month of June 2012 of $440 million, pre-tax, and an estimated $820 million, pre-tax, for the second quarter 2012. Catastrophe losses occurring in the second quarter comprised 30 events at an estimated cost of $960 million, partially offset by favorable reestimates of prior reported catastrophes. Four events accounted for over half of the estimated loss for the quarter.
 
This announcement is made as part of Allstate's previously announced plan to release month and quarter-to-date catastrophe losses when a monthly estimate exceeds $150 million. The company plans to release this information no later than the third Thursday of the following month.
 
The Allstate Corporation
(NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer, serving approximately 16 million households through its Allstate, Encompass, Esurance and Answer Financial brand names and Allstate Financial business segment. Allstate branded insurance products (auto, home, life and retirement) and services are offered through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives, as well as via and 1-800 Allstate
www.allstate.com
, and are widely known through the slogan "You're In Good Hands With Allstate
.
 
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This news release contains forward-looking statements about catastrophe losses.  These statements are based on our estimates and assumptions that are subject to uncertainty.  These statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Management believes the estimated impact of catastrophe losses, including net loss reserves, are appropriately established and recorded based on available facts, information, laws and regulations.  However, actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements in this news release and from the amounts currently recorded for a variety of reasons, including the following:
              
Our policyholders' ability to report and our ability to adjust claims have been impeded by the extent of the devastation and the number of areas affected.
              
It is particularly difficult to assess the extent of damage in the initial stages of adjusting residential property losses.
              
Our estimate for the ultimate costs of repairs may not prove to be correct because of increased demand for services and supplies in the areas affected by the catastrophes.
              
The number of incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims may be greater or less than currently anticipated.
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.


