FILE:ALL/ALL-8K-20121217104614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[   ]       Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[   ]       Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[   ]       Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[   ]       Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On December 17, 2012, the Registrant announced the election of Kermit R. Crawford to its Board of Directors effective January 30, 2013, increasing the size of the Board to 13 directors.  The Board has not yet determined Mr. Crawford's committee assignments.  Mr. Crawford's compensation will be consistent with the Registrant's previously disclosed standard compensatory arrangements for non-employee directors, which are described in the Registrant's most recent proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 11, 2012, file number 001-11840, under the heading "Director Compensation."  Mr. Crawford's compensation will be prorated to reflect the commencement date of his service on the Board.  In addition, the Registrant expects to enter into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Crawford in substantially the form filed as Exhibit 10.2 to its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.   A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Crawford's election is attached as Exhibit 99 to this report.  The Board took action to elect Mr. Crawford as a director on December17, 2012.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)        Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
 
NEWS
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Contact:          Maryellen Thielen
(847) 402-5600
 
NORTHBROOK, Ill.,
December 17, 2012  The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) announced that Kermit R. Crawford, 53, Walgreen Co. president of pharmacy, health and wellness, has been elected to its board of directors, effective January 30, 2013. Crawford's election will increase the number of Allstate board members to 13. Crawford will stand for election at Allstate's shareholder meeting in May, as the company's board members are elected annually.
 
Crawford has been Walgreens president of pharmacy, health and wellness since 2010. He joined the company in 1983 as a pharmacist and successfully took on increasing operating responsibilities, becoming senior vice president of pharmacy services in 2007.
 
"Kermit's operating experience at a trusted national brand dedicated to providing an excellent customer experience will complement the strong capabilities of the Allstate board," said Thomas J. Wilson, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "His expertise is highly relevant to our strategy of providing unique products to different customer segments, the largest of which is served by local Allstate agencies."
 
"I am thrilled to be joining such a talented and respected board that helps keep Allstate at the forefront of change," said Crawford.
 
Crawford serves on the boards of the National Association of Chain Drug Stores, Northwestern Lake Forest Hospital, the American Diabetes Association (Northern Illinois and Indiana Region) and the Commercial Club of Chicago. He is also a member of the board of councilors at the University of Southern California School of Pharmacy and the apothecary board of advisors at Florida A&M University College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences. Crawford received his bachelor's degree from Texas Southern University College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences in 1983. Among other recognition, Crawford was honored by in 2009 as Pharmacy Executive of the Year.
Chain Drug Review
 
The Allstate Corporation
(NYSE: ALL) is the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer, serving approximately 16 million households through its Allstate, Encompass, Esurance and Answer Financial brand names and Allstate Financial business segment. Allstate branded insurance products (auto, home, life and retirement) and services are offered through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives, as well as via and 1-800 Allstate, and are widely known through the slogan "You're In Good Hands With Allstate."
www.allstate.com
 


