FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20040817161318.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 17, 2004, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied Materials") announced its financial results for the third fiscal quarter ended August 1, 2004. A copy of Applied Materials' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied Materials, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
To supplement the consolidated condensed financial statements prepared under United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), Applied Materials uses a non-GAAP financial measure, as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, of net income that is GAAP net income, adjusted to exclude special items. Reconciliations of reported results of operations under GAAP to ongoing results have been included as a supplement to the press release. Due to the amount of charges incurred in prior periods as a result of realignment activities, Applied Materials believes that ongoing results are useful to investors because they reflect baseline performance exclusive of charges associated with realignment activities. Ongoing results are the primary indicator used by Applied Materials' management to plan and forecast future periods. These non-GAAP measures are neither in accordance with, nor an alternative for, GAAP, and may be materially different from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered as a substitute for net income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 17, 2004
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1 Release: Immediate Contact: Paul Bowman (investment community) Jeff Lettes (editorial/media) (408) 563-1698 (408) 563-5161 APPLIED MATERIALS ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR THIRD FISCAL QUARTER 2004 New Orders Increase to $2.46 Billion; Net Sales Increase to $2.24 Billion SANTA CLARA, Calif., August 17, 2004 -- Applied Materials, Inc., the world's largest supplier of equipment and services to the global semiconductor industry, reported results for its third fiscal quarter ended August 1, 2004. Net sales were $2.24 billion, up 11 percent from $2.02 billion for the second fiscal quarter of 2004, and up 104 percent from $1.09 billion for the third fiscal quarter of 2003. Gross margin for the third fiscal quarter of 2004 was 47.4 percent, up from 46.5 percent for the second fiscal quarter of 2004, and up from 31.7 percent for the third fiscal quarter of 2003. Net income for the third fiscal quarter of 2004 was $441 million, or $0.26 per share, up from net income of $373 million, or $0.22 per share, for the second fiscal quarter of 2004, and up from a net loss of $37 million, or $0.02 per share, for the third fiscal quarter of 2003. The company's ongoing net income was $441 million, or $0.26 per share, for the third fiscal quarter of 2004, up from $373 million, or $0.22 per share, for the second fiscal quarter of 2004, and up from $78 million, or $0.05 per share, for the third fiscal quarter of 2003. Ongoing results for the second and third fiscal quarters of 2004 were the same as reported net income since there were no special items. New orders of $2.46 billion for the third fiscal quarter of 2004 increased 11 percent from $2.21 billion for the second fiscal quarter of 2004, and increased 134 percent from $1.05 billion for the third fiscal quarter of 2003. Regional distribution of new orders for the third fiscal quarter of 2004 was: Taiwan 28 percent, North America 19 percent, Japan 17 percent, Southeast Asia and China 15 percent, Korea 12 percent, and Europe 9 percent. Backlog at the end of the third fiscal quarter of 2004 was $2.99 billion, compared to $2.80 billion at the end of the second fiscal quarter of 2004. "Our financial results demonstrate that Applied Materials is continuing to grow while delivering excellent profitability and productivity," said Mike Splinter, president and chief executive officer. "We are building on our technology leadership, introducing leading-edge products and entering new businesses to provide more capability to our customers." Applied Materials continues to deliver breakthrough technologies with a broad portfolio of transistor, interconnect, and inspection solutions for manufacturing chips at 65 nanometers and beyond. During the quarter, the company launched the Applied Quantum(TM) X, Applied Reflexion LK Ecmp(TM) and Applied Producer(R) HARP(TM) products, and added the FlexStar(TM) system through the acquisition of Torrex. Applied Materials also entered into agreements with Brooks Automation, Praxair Electronics, and Phoenix Silicon to broaden its service product offerings. In addition, Applied Materials announced yesterday a definitive agreement to acquire the operating subsidiaries and businesses of Metron Technology, which provides a wide range of oursource solutions to the semiconductor industry. "With our growth strategy in place, our focus is clearly on building a stronger Applied Materials as we further expand our product offerings and capabilities," concluded Splinter.
Applied Materials, Inc. August 17, 2004 Page 2 of 6 Reconciliations of reported results of operations under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) to ongoing results are included as a supplement to this press release. Due to the amount of realignment charges incurred in certain prior periods, Applied Materials believes that ongoing results are useful to investors because they reflect baseline performance exclusive of charges associated with realignment activities. Ongoing results are the primary indicator used by Applied Materials' management to plan and forecast future periods. These non-GAAP measures are neither in accordance with, nor an alternative for, GAAP, and may be materially different from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered as a substitute for net income prepared in accordance with GAAP. This press release contains forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, those relating to the company's strategic position and business outlook, as well as the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries' trends. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "may," "should," "will," "estimate," "forecast," "see," or similar expressions, and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the sustainability, timing, rate and amount of increased demand in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries, which is subject to many factors, including global economic conditions, business spending, consumer confidence, demand for electronic products and semiconductors, and geopolitical uncertainties; customers' capacity requirements, including capacity utilizing the latest technology (such as 300mm and nanometer applications); the company's ability to timely develop, deliver and support a broad range of products and services and successfully develop new markets; the company's ability to timely satisfy manufacturing requirements; the company's ability to timely align its cost structure with business conditions; changes in management; the possible inability to complete acquisition(s) as anticipated or at all and the possible inability to realize the potential benefits of the integration and performance of acquired business(es); effectiveness of strategic transactions and other risks described in Applied Materials' Securities and Exchange Commission filings. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. The company assumes no obligation to update the information in this press release. Applied Materials will be discussing its third fiscal quarter results, along with its outlook for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2004, on a conference call today beginning at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time. A webcast of the conference call will be available on Applied Materials' web site under the "Investors" section. Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq: AMAT) is the largest supplier of equipment and services to the global semiconductor industry. Applied Materials' web site is http://www.appliedmaterials.com. ###
Applied Materials, Inc. August 17, 2004 Page 3 of 6 APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)
Applied Materials, Inc. August 17, 2004 Page 4 of 6 APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS - ------------------ Amounts as of August 1, 2004 are unaudited. Amounts as of October 26, 2003 are derived from the October 26, 2003 audited financial statements.
Applied Materials, Inc. August 17, 2004 Page 5 of 6 APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - ONGOING BASIS (UNAUDITED) - ---------------- (1) Reported results of operations are presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). (2) Special items for the third fiscal quarter of 2003 consisted of the following: (a) Charges to cost of products sold for inventory write-offs as a result of the implementation of the global spares distribution system and refocused product efforts, which included the Etec mask pattern products. (b) Charges to research, development and engineering expense for laboratory tool write-offs as a result of refocused product efforts associated with realignment activities. (c) Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges consisted of a reduction in the workforce, the consolidation of facilities and impairment of certain assets associated with realignment activities. (d) Provision for the tax effect of special items. (3) There were no special items for the third fiscal quarter of 2004. Therefore, ongoing results are the same as reported results of operations.
Applied Materials, Inc. August 17, 2004 Page 6 of 6 APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - ONGOING BASIS (UNAUDITED) - ---------------- (1) Reported results of operations are presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). (2) Special items for the nine months ended July 27, 2003 consisted of the following: (a) Charges to cost of products sold for inventory write-offs as a result of the implementation of the global spares distribution system and refocused product efforts, which included the Etec mask pattern products. (b) Charges to research, development and engineering expense for laboratory tool write-offs as a result of refocused product efforts associated with realignment activities. (c) Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges consisted of reduction in the workforce, the consolidation of facilities and impairment of certain assets associated with realignment activities. (d) Provision for the tax effect of special items. (3) Special items for the nine months ended August 1, 2004, all of which occurred in the first fiscal quarter of 2004, consisted of the following: (e) Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges resulting primarily from the consolidation of facilities associated with realignment activities. (f) Provision for the tax effect of special items.


