FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20061024165539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(c) Appointment of a Principal Officer.
On October 23, 2006, the Board of Directors of Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied") appointed George S. Davis as Chief Financial Officer, effective Wednesday, November 1, 2006, the first week of fiscal year 2007. Mr. Davis, age 49, had been head of Corporate Business Development, with responsibility for merger and acquisition activities, strategic planning, and management of Applied's venture investments, since February 2005. From November 1999 to February 2005, Mr. Davis served as Corporate Treasurer. In that position, Mr. Davis was responsible for managing Applied's global treasury and tax activities. Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Davis served as Vice President of Finance, Europe, Middle East and Africa, for Atlantic Richfield Company, an oil exploration, production and refining company.
Mr. Davis will succeed Nancy H. Handel, who has served as Chief Financial Officer since 2004. Ms. Handel, who previously announced her intention to retire, will remain at Applied through January 5, 2007 and will assist Mr. Davis in his transition.
Applied has not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Davis.
In June 2002, in order to assist with his relocation and pursuant to Applied's Employee Financial Assistance Plan, Applied granted to Mr. Davis an interest-free loan in the amount of $500,000 for a term of five years. In October 2006, Mr. Davis fully repaid the loan before its due date and prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer.
A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Davis is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., October 24, 2006  Applied Materials, Inc. announced today that George S. Davis, 49, has been named chief financial officer, effective Wednesday, November 1, 2006, the first week of the 2007 fiscal year. Nancy H. Handel, who served as chief financial officer since 2004 and previously announced her intention to retire, will remain at Applied through January 5, 2007 and will assist in the transition.
"George's strong leadership and industry experience, as well as his corporate finance and business development acumen, make him an excellent choice to be Applied's new CFO," said Mike Splinter, president and CEO. "George's proven track record in finance, treasury and business development has contributed to Applied's position as a global industry leader."
Davis had been head of Corporate Business Development since February 2005. In this position, he was responsible for merger and acquisition activities, strategic planning, and management of the Company's venture investments. From November 1999 to February 2005, Davis served as corporate treasurer, where he managed Applied's worldwide treasury operations and was responsible for investments, tax, and financial risk management and trade and export matters.
Prior to joining Applied Materials, Davis served as vice president of finance, Europe, Middle East and Africa for Atlantic Richfield Company (ARCO), where he was chief financial officer for ARCO's operations throughout that region. Davis is vice chairman of the North American Advisory Board of Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI). He received his undergraduate degree in economics and political science from Claremont McKenna College and his M.B.A. from the University of California, Los Angeles.
"We appreciate Nancy's leadership and her many important contributions during her 21-year career with Applied," Splinter said. "We wish her well in her retirement."
Applied Materials, Inc. is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology(TM) solutions for the electronics industry with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, service and software products. At Applied Materials, we apply Nanomanufacturing Technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at
www.appliedmaterials.com


