FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20070515161417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 15, 2007, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied Materials") announced its financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended April 29, 2007. A copy of Applied Materials' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied Materials, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     SANTA CLARA, Calif., May 15, 2007  Applied Materials, Inc. reported results for its second fiscal quarter ended April 29, 2007. Net sales were $2.53 billion, up 13 percent from $2.25 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, and up 11 percent from $2.28 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Gross margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 was 44.9 percent, down from 46.5 percent for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, and down from 46.7 percent for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 was $411 million, or $0.29 per share, compared to net income of $413 million, or $0.26 per share, for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, and compared to net income of $403 million, or $0.29 per share, for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Current quarter results reflected charges related to the previously announced decision to cease development of beamline implant products and certain charges associated with the acquisition of the software division of Brooks Automation, Inc.
     Non-GAAP net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 was $509 million, or $0.36 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $457 million, or $0.29 per share, for the second quarter of fiscal 2006. Non-GAAP net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 was $405 million, or $0.29 per share. Non-GAAP adjustments are explained further below and detailed in the accompanying Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP Results.
     "Applied Materials delivered higher than expected revenue and earnings this quarter," said Mike Splinter, president and CEO. "We demonstrated our ability to execute across our business lines, deliver enhanced operational performance and open new opportunities for growth, announcing our first contracts for solar cell production lines. While the market for Display remained soft, Silicon and Fab Solutions exceeded expectations fueled by continued high levels of memory investment and momentum from market share gains."
     New orders of $2.65 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 increased 6 percent from $2.49 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, and increased 4 percent from $2.54 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Regional distribution of new orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 was: Taiwan 30 percent, North America 15 percent, Korea 15 percent, Southeast Asia and China 15 percent, Japan 14 percent and Europe 11 percent. Backlog at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2007 was $3.67 billion, compared to $3.55 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
     Results by reportable segment for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 were:
 
     Non-GAAP net income and Non-GAAP EPS, detailed in the accompanying Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Results, exclude charges related to (i) equity-based compensation, (ii) asset impairment and restructuring activities, (iii) ceasing development of beamline implant products, (iv) certain items associated with acquisitions, including amortization of intangibles, inventory fair value adjustments on products sold and an in-process research and development charge, and (v) the resolution of income tax audits and retroactive reinstatement of tax credits. Management uses non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS to evaluate the company's operating and financial performance in light of business objectives and for planning purposes. These measures are not in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and may differ from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. Applied believes that these measures enhance investors' ability to review the company's business from the same perspective as the company's management and facilitate comparisons of this period's results with prior periods. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered a substitute for net income or EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the company's performance, growth opportunities, solar business, strategic position and technology leadership; and the industry outlook. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "may," "should," "will," "estimate," "forecast," "continue" or similar expressions, and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the sustainability of demand in the nanomanufacturing technology industry and broadening of demand for emerging applications such as solar, which are subject to many factors, including global economic conditions, business and consumer spending, demand for electronic products and semiconductors, and geopolitical uncertainties; customers' capacity requirements, including capacity utilizing the latest technology, and fab utilization; the timing, rate, amount and sustainability of capital spending for new nanomanufacturing technology products; the company's ability to (i) successfully develop, deliver and support a broad range of products and expand its markets and develop new markets, (ii) maintain effective cost controls and timely align its cost structure with business conditions, (iii) effectively manage its resources and production capability, including its supply chain, and (iv) attract, motivate and retain key employees; the successful implementation and effectiveness of initiatives to enhance global operations; the successful integration and performance of acquired businesses; the effectiveness of joint ventures; and other risks described in Applied Materials' Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
     Applied Materials will discuss its fiscal 2007 second quarter results, along with its outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2007, on a conference call today beginning at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time. A webcast of the conference call will be available on Applied Materials' web site.
     Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq:AMAT) is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, services and software products for the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panels, solar photovoltaic cells, flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass. At Applied Materials, we apply Nanomanufacturing Technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
 
 
 


