FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20070724162445.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On July 23, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied") appointed Aart J. de Geus to serve as a member of the Board, effective immediately. Applied's Board also appointed Dr. de Geus to serve on the Strategy Committee.
 
On July 24, 2007, Applied issued a press release announcing the appointment of Dr. de Geus to the Board, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 7.01, including the exhibit, is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities under that section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of Applied under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., July 24, 2007  Applied Materials, Inc. today announced the appointment of Aart J. de Geus to serve on its Board of Directors, effective immediately. Dr. de Geus has also been appointed to serve as a member of the Strategy Committee of the Board.
"We are delighted to have someone with Aart's tremendous knowledge of the semiconductor industry and chip design on our Board," said James C. Morgan, chairman of Applied Materials. "His global experience, leadership skills and broad-based expertise will complement and enhance the existing composition of our Board. I am confident that he will make valuable contributions to Applied."
Since co-founding Synopsys in 1986, Dr. de Geus has built the company to be a world leader in electronic design automation (EDA). He currently serves as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Synopsys. Since 1986, Dr. de Geus has served as a director of and held various positions at Synopsys, including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. From 1982 to 1986, Dr. de Geus was employed by General Electric Corporation, where he was the Manager of the Advanced Computer-Aided Engineering Group.
Dr. de Geus was made a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in 1999. He is a member of the board of the Silicon Valley Leadership Group, TechNet, the Fabless Semiconductor Association and is Chairman of the Electronic Design Automation Consortium. Dr. de Geus is active in the community and is well known for his philanthropic endeavors, particularly in promoting education in math and science. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University.
Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq:AMAT) is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, services and software products for the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panels, solar photovoltaic cells, flexible electronics and energy efficient glass. At Applied Materials, we apply Nanomanufacturing Technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at .
www.appliedmaterials.com


