FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20070105172141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On December 29, 2006, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied") received a request for additional information (a "second request")from the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") in connection with the DOJ's regulatory review under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended ("HSR Act"), of Applied's proposed acquisition of certain assets of Brooks Software, a division of Brooks Automation, Inc. Applied intends to respond promptly to the second request and will continue to work closely with the DOJ as the DOJ conducts its review.
The effect of the second request is to extend the waiting period imposed by the HSR Act until 30 days after Applied has substantially complied with the second request and Brooks Automation has substantially complied with the second request that it received. Closing of the proposed acquisition is subject to a number of conditions, including expiration of waiting periods under U.S. and applicable foreign antitrust laws.
The information furnished in this Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing. The information in this report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


