FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20070912172220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On September 11, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied") appointed Dennis D. Powell to serve as a member of the Board, effective immediately. Mr. Powell has not been appointed to serve on any Board committee at this time.
Pursuant to the terms of Applied's Employee Stock Incentive Plan, Mr. Powell was automatically granted 20,000 performance shares (or restricted stock units) on September 11, 2007, the day of his appointment. These performance shares are scheduled to vest in four equal annual installments beginning one year after the grant date, subject to Mr. Powell's continued service as a director. Mr. Powell will also participate in the standard non-employee director compensation arrangements described in Applied's 2007 Proxy Statement that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 14, 2007.
 
On September 12, 2007, Applied issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Powell to the Board. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 7.01, including the exhibit, is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities under that section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of Applied under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
 
On September 11, 2007, the Board approved Charles Y.S. Liu's request to step down as a member of the Audit Committee of the Board, effective immediately. Mr. Liu will continue to serve as Chair of the Investment Committee and as a member of the Strategy Committee.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., September 12, 2007  Applied Materials, Inc. today announced the appointment of Dennis D. Powell to serve on its Board of Directors, effective immediately.
"We are very pleased to have an executive with Dennis' reputation for integrity and strong financial governance join our Board," said James C. Morgan, chairman of Applied Materials. "His financial expertise and experience in mergers and acquisitions as well as leading a world-class finance organization makes Dennis a valuable addition to our Board."
Mr. Powell is currently Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cisco Systems, Inc. Since joining Cisco in 1997, Mr. Powell has served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance and Vice President, Corporate Controller. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Powell was employed by Coopers & Lybrand LLP for 26 years, where he was last a senior partner. Mr. Powell currently serves as a member of the board of directors of Intuit, Inc. and serves as Chairman of Intuit's Audit Committee. Mr. Powell holds a B.S. in business administration with a concentration in accounting from Oregon State University.
Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq:AMAT) is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, services and software products for the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panels, solar photovoltaic cells, flexible electronics and energy efficient glass. At Applied Materials, we apply Nanomanufacturing Technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at .
www.appliedmaterials.com


