FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20081112161227.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 12, 2008, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied" or "the Company") announced its financial results for its fiscal year and fourth quarter ended October 26, 2008. A copy of Applied's press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On November 12, 2008, Applied announced that in light of deteriorating economic conditions and market uncertainties, it intends to implement a restructuring program designed to streamline the organization and reduce operating costs. Applied plans to begin implementing the program in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and to complete the program by the end of fiscal 2009. When completed, the program is expected to result in annualized cost savings of approximately $400 million. As part of the program, Applied expects to eliminate 1,800 positions, or approximately 12% of its global workforce, through a combination of attrition, voluntary separation and other workforce reduction actions. Changes to the Company's workforce will vary by country, based on local legal requirements and consultations with employee works councils and other employee representatives, as applicable. The Company expects that all employee-related charges under the program will result in cash expenditures and that these charges will be recorded in fiscal 2009.
Due to the variability of costs associated with voluntary separation programs, Applied is unable at this time to make a good faith determination of cost estimates, or ranges of cost estimates, associated with the program as set forth in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Item 2.05 of Form 8-K. In accordance with paragraph (d) of Item 2.05, Applied will timely file an amendment to this report after its determination of such estimates or ranges of estimates.
Safe Harbor Statement
This report contains forward-looking statements, including those regarding the expected nature, timing, reductions, objectives, annualized cost savings, and charges of the restructuring program. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to: uncertain global and economic market conditions; Applied's ability to implement the program as planned; retention of key employees; changes in Applied's business requirements; the possibility that benefits of the program may not materialize as expected; and other risks described in Applied's SEC filings and the press release furnished herewith. Applied undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1
Release: Immediate
     SANTA CLARA, Calif., November 12, 2008  Applied Materials, Inc. reported results for its fiscal year and fourth quarter ended October 26, 2008.
     Fourth quarter net sales were $2.04 billion, down from $2.37 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, and up from $1.85 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Gross margin was 39.1 percent, down from 45.5 percent for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, and down from 40.2 percent for the third quarter of fiscal 2008. GAAP net income was $231 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, down from net income of $422 million, or $0.30 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, and up from $165 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, for the third quarter of fiscal 2008.
     New orders of $2.21 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 were comparable to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, and increased from $2.03 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Regional distribution of new orders for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 was: Taiwan 26 percent, North America 22 percent, Southeast Asia and China 22 percent, Europe 11 percent, Korea 10 percent, and Japan 9 percent. Backlog at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 was $4.85 billion, up from $4.74 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2008 and up from $3.65 billion at the end of fiscal 2007.
     Fiscal 2008 net sales were $8.13 billion, down from $9.73 billion for fiscal 2007. Gross margin for fiscal 2008 was 42.4 percent, down from 46.1 percent for fiscal 2007. GAAP net income for fiscal 2008 was $961 million, or $0.70 per diluted share, down from net income of $1.71 billion, or $1.20 per diluted share, for fiscal 2007. New orders of $9.16 billion for fiscal 2008 decreased from $9.68 billion for fiscal 2007.
     "Fiscal 2008 was a pivotal year for Applied as we made significant progress in advancing our Silicon and Display businesses and expanding in the solar market. Our fourth quarter results demonstrate effective performance in a very challenging environment," said Mike Splinter, president and CEO. "We passed a major milestone as the first SunFab Thin Film Solar Line began volume production demonstrating Applied's commitment to deliver exciting new technology to the solar industry.
tm
     "As Applied moves into fiscal 2009, we will implement further cost-reduction actions due to declining market conditions, and we will invest in strategic priorities," concluded Splinter.
     Applied will implement a restructuring program beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, designed to streamline the organization and reduce operating costs. When completed the program is expected to drive annualized cost savings of approximately $400 million. As part of this program, the company plans to reduce its global workforce by approximately 12% or 1,800 positions by the end of fiscal 2009 through a combination of attrition, voluntary separation and other workforce reduction programs consistent with local legal requirements and in consultation with employee representatives, where applicable.
 
     Non-GAAP net income for fiscal 2008 was $1.20 billion, or $0.87 per diluted share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $1.90 billion, or $1.33 per diluted share, for fiscal 2007. Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 was $264 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $472 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, and $228 million or $0.17 per diluted share for the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Non-GAAP adjustments are explained below and detailed in the accompanying Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Results.
     Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, Applied changed its management reporting system for services, with all service results reported in the Applied Global Services segment. Fiscal 2007 segment information has been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2008 presentation. Results by reportable segment for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 were:
     Results by reportable segment for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the third quarter of fiscal 2008, and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 were:
 
     Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS, detailed in the accompanying Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Results, exclude charges related to (i) equity-based compensation, (ii) certain items associated with acquisitions, including inventory fair value adjustments on products sold and amortization of purchased intangible assets, (iii) restructuring and asset impairments, (iv) certain costs associated with ceasing development of beamline implant products, and/or (v) the resolution of income tax audits and changes in tax credits. Management uses non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS to evaluate the company's operating and financial performance in light of business objectives and for planning purposes. These measures are not in accordance with GAAP and may differ from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. Applied believes that these measures enhance investors' ability to review the company's business from the same perspective as the company's management and facilitate comparisons of this period's results with prior periods. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered a substitute for net income or EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     Applied Materials will discuss its fiscal 2008 full year and fourth quarter results, along with its outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2009, on the earnings call today beginning at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time. A webcast of the earnings call will be available at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
     This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Applied's performance, operational execution, products, technologies, growth, cost-reductions actions and anticipated savings, as well as industry and global economic outlooks. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "can," "should," "will," "forecast" or similar expressions, and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to: the level of demand for nanomanufacturing technology products, which is subject to many factors, including uncertain global economic and market conditions, business and consumer spending, demand for electronic products and semiconductors, governmental renewable energy policies and incentives, and geopolitical uncertainties; customers' utilization rates and capacity requirements, including capacity utilizing the latest technology; adverse conditions in the global banking system and financial markets; customers' ability to acquire sufficient capital, obtain regulatory approvals and/or fulfill infrastructure requirements; variability of operating results among the company's segments caused by differing conditions in the served markets; the successful performance of acquired businesses and joint ventures; changes in Applied's business requirements; Applied's ability to (i) develop, deliver and support a broad range of products, expand its markets and develop new markets, (ii) maintain effective cost controls and timely align its cost structure with business conditions, (iii) plan and manage its resources and production capability, including its supply chain, (iv) implement initiatives that enhance global operations and efficiencies, (v) obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies, (vi) implement its restructuring program as planned and realize expected benefits, and (vii) attract, motivate and retain key employees; and other risks described in Applied Materials' SEC filings, including its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
     Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq: AMAT) is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, services and software products for the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panel displays, solar photovoltaic cells, flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass. At Applied Materials, we apply Nanomanufacturing Technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at
www.appliedmaterials.com.
 
 
 
 
 


