FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20080513160634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 13, 2008, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied Materials") announced its financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended April 27, 2008. A copy of Applied Materials' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied Materials, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
     SANTA CLARA, Calif., May 13, 2008  Applied Materials, Inc. reported results for its second fiscal quarter ended April 27, 2008. Net sales were $2.15 billion, down 15 percent from $2.53 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2007, and up 3 percent from $2.09 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Gross margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 was 45.0 percent, up from 44.9 percent for the second quarter of fiscal 2007, and up from 44.8 percent for the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 was $303 million, or $0.22 per share, down from net income of $411 million, or $0.29 per share, for the second quarter of fiscal 2007, and up from net income of $262 million, or $0.19 per share, for the first quarter of fiscal 2008.
     New orders of $2.41 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 decreased 9 percent from $2.65 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2007, and decreased 3 percent from $2.50 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Regional distribution of new orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 was: Korea 22 percent, Taiwan 22 percent, Southeast Asia and China 18 percent, Japan 13 percent, Europe 13 percent, and North America 12 percent. Backlog at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2008 was $4.59 billion, compared to $4.10 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2008.
     "This quarter's performance demonstrates our focus on operational execution and prudent cost controls across all of our businesses," said Mike Splinter, president and CEO. "We are ramping our display and solar businesses while addressing the challenges of a weaker global chip equipment market.
     "During the quarter, we established our leadership in the crystalline silicon solar equipment market, built on our momentum in thin film solar products and disclosed the industry's first gigawatt-scale, thin film solar project. In addition, we launched a new mask inspection system, the Aera2. Applied has significant opportunities ahead as we deliver on our promise to utilize our nanomanufacturing technology to improve the way people live," concluded Splinter.
     Non-GAAP net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 was $362 million, or $0.26 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $509 million, or $0.36 per share, for the second quarter of fiscal 2007, and $345 million or $0.25 per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Non-GAAP adjustments are explained below and detailed in the accompanying Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Results.
 
     Results by reportable segment for the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the first quarter of fiscal 2008, and the second quarter of fiscal 2007 were:
     Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, Applied changed its management reporting system for services, with all service results reported in the Applied Global Services segment. Fiscal 2007 segment information has been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2008 presentation.
     Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS, detailed in the accompanying Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Results, exclude charges related to (i) equity-based compensation, (ii) certain items associated with acquisitions, including amortization of intangibles and inventory fair value adjustments on products sold, (iii) restructuring and asset impairments, (iv) certain costs associated with ceasing development of beamline implant products, and/or (v) the resolution of income tax audits and changes in tax credits. Management uses non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS to evaluate the company's operating and financial performance in light of business objectives and for planning purposes. These measures are not in accordance with GAAP and may differ from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. Applied believes that these measures enhance investors' ability to review the company's business from the same perspective as the company's management and facilitate comparisons of this period's results with prior periods. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered a substitute for net income or EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     Applied Materials will discuss its fiscal 2008 second quarter results, along with its outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2008, on the earnings call today beginning at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time. A webcast of the earnings call will be available at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
     This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Applied's performance, operational efficiencies, products, strategic position and opportunities, and the industry outlook. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "should," "will," "forecast" or similar expressions, and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to: the level of demand for nanomanufacturing technology products, which is subject to many factors, including global economic and market conditions, business and consumer spending, demand for electronic products and semiconductors, governmental renewable energy policies and incentives, and geopolitical uncertainties; customers' utilization rates and capacity requirements, including capacity utilizing the latest technology; customers' ability to acquire sufficient capital,
 
obtain regulatory approvals and/or fulfill infrastructure requirements; variability of operating results among the company's reportable segments caused by differing conditions in the served markets; the successful implementation and effectiveness of initiatives to enhance global operations and efficiencies; the successful performance of acquired businesses and joint ventures; Applied's ability to (i) successfully develop, deliver and support a broad range of products and expand its markets and develop new markets, (ii) maintain effective cost controls and timely align its cost structure with business conditions, (iii) effectively plan and manage its resources and production capability, including its supply chain, (iv) obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies, and (v) attract, motivate and retain key employees; and other risks described in Applied Materials' SEC filings, including its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
     Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq:AMAT) is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, services and software products for the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panel displays, solar photovoltaic cells, flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass. At Applied Materials, we apply Nanomanufacturing Technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
 
 
 
 
 


