FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20080212161651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 12, 2008, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied Materials") announced its financial results for its first fiscal quarter ended January 27, 2008. A copy of Applied Materials' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied Materials, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     SANTA CLARA, Calif., February 12, 2008  Applied Materials, Inc. reported results for its first fiscal quarter ended January 27, 2008. Net sales were $2.09 billion, down 8 percent from $2.28 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, and down 12 percent from $2.37 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 was 44.8 percent, down from 46.7 percent for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, and down from 45.5 percent for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 was $262 million, or $0.19 per share, down from net income of $403 million, or $0.29 per share, for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, and down from net income of $422 million, or $0.30 per share, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.
     New orders of $2.50 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 decreased 2 percent from $2.54 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, and increased 13 percent from $2.21 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Regional distribution of new orders for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 was: Taiwan 32 percent, North America 20 percent, Korea 14 percent, Japan 12 percent, Southeast Asia and China 11 percent, and Europe 11 percent. Backlog at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2008 was $4.10 billion, compared to $3.65 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.
     "We executed well in a challenging global chip equipment market," said Mike Splinter, president and CEO. "The strength in our new orders reflects robust demand for our display products and recognition of our first Applied SunFab Thin Film Line orders.
     "This is a pivotal year for Applied and we are focused on execution and growth throughout the company. Our long-term prospects are excellent as we build on our foundation of semiconductor equipment and services to add new businesses and move into new markets," concluded Splinter.
     Non-GAAP net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 was $345 million, or $0.25 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $405 million, or $0.29 per share, for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, and $472 million or $0.34 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Non-GAAP adjustments are explained below and detailed in the accompanying Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Results.
 
     Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, Applied renamed two of its reportable segments. The Fab Solutions segment is now called Applied Global Services, and the Adjacent Technologies segment is now called Energy and Environmental Solutions. In addition, Applied changed its management reporting system for services, with all service results reported in the Applied Global Services segment. Fiscal 2007 segment information has been reclassified to conform to fiscal 2008.
     Results by reportable segment for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 and the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2007 were:
     Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS, detailed in the accompanying Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Results, exclude charges related to (i) restructuring and asset impairments, (ii) equity-based compensation, (iii) certain items associated with acquisitions, including amortization of intangibles and inventory fair value adjustments on products sold, (iv) certain costs associated with ceasing development of beamline implant products, and/or (v) the resolution of income tax audits and changes in tax credits. Management uses non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS to evaluate the company's operating and financial performance in light of business objectives and for planning purposes. These measures are not in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and may differ from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. Applied believes that these measures enhance investors' ability to review the company's business from the same perspective as the company's management and facilitate comparisons of this period's results with prior periods. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered a substitute for net income or EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     Applied Materials will discuss its fiscal 2008 first quarter results, along with its outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2008, on the earnings call today beginning at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. A webcast of the earnings call will be available at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
     This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Applied's performance, growth opportunities and prospects. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as
 
"expect," "believe," "may," "should," "will," "forecast" or similar expressions, and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to: the sustainability of demand in the nanomanufacturing technology industry and broadening of demand for emerging applications such as solar, which are subject to many factors, including global economic conditions, business and consumer spending, demand for electronic products and semiconductors, and geopolitical uncertainties; customers' capacity requirements, including capacity utilizing the latest technology, and fab utilization; the timing, rate, amount and sustainability of capital spending for nanomanufacturing technology products; variability of operating results among the company's reportable segments caused by differing conditions in the served markets; difficulties in production planning and execution in new businesses such as solar; the successful implementation and effectiveness of initiatives to enhance global operations and efficiencies; the successful performance of acquired businesses and joint ventures; Applied's ability to (i) successfully develop, deliver and support a broad range of products and expand its markets and develop new markets, (ii) maintain effective cost controls and timely align its cost structure with business conditions, (iii) effectively manage its resources and production capability, including its supply chain, (iv) obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies, and (v) attract, motivate and retain key employees; and other risks described in Applied Materials' SEC filings, including its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
     Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq:AMAT) is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, services and software products for the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panel displays, solar photovoltaic cells, flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass. At Applied Materials, we apply Nanomanufacturing Technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
 
 
 
 


