FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20090811161028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 11, 2009, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied Materials") announced its financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended July 26, 2009. A copy of Applied Materials' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied Materials, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
SANTA CLARA, Calif., August 11, 2009  Applied Materials, Inc. today reported results for its third fiscal quarter ended July 26, 2009. Net sales were $1.13 billion, and the GAAP net loss was $55 million, or $0.04 per share. The company also reported a non-GAAP net loss for the period of $2 million, or breakeven per share.
     "In a difficult environment, Applied improved its operating performance and generated significant cash flow while making substantial investments in new technologies for next-generation semiconductor chips, flat panel displays and solar panels," said Mike Splinter, chairman and CEO.
GAAP Results
Non-GAAP Results
     The non-GAAP results exclude the impact of any of the following for a particular quarter: investment impairments, equity-based compensation, restructuring and asset impairments, acquisition-related costs, ceasing implant development, and amounts associated with the resolution of income tax audits. A reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the financial statements included in this release.
Order and Backlog Summary
     New orders for the quarter totaled $1.07 billion. Regional distribution was: Southeast Asia and China 25 percent, Taiwan 24 percent, Japan 14 percent, North America 14 percent, Europe 12 percent, and Korea 11 percent. Within the Silicon Systems Group (SSG), new order composition was: foundry 42 percent, DRAM 25 percent, logic and other 18 percent, and flash 15 percent. Backlog for the company as of the end of the quarter was $2.95 billion, down from $3.16 billion in the previous quarter.
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 2 of 7
Reportable Segment Results
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     Management uses non-GAAP results to evaluate the company's operating and financial performance in light of business objectives and for planning purposes. These measures are not in accordance with GAAP and may differ from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. Applied believes these measures enhance investors' ability to review the company's business from the same perspective as the company's management and facilitate comparisons of this period's results with prior periods. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Webcast Information
     Applied Materials will discuss these results during an earnings call that begins at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live webcast will be available at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
Forward-Looking Statements
     This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Applied's performance and the industry environment. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "can," "should," "will," "forecast" or similar expressions, and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to: the level of demand for nanomanufacturing technology products, which is subject to many factors, including uncertain global economic and industry conditions, the duration and severity of the recession, customers' ability to acquire sufficient capital, business and consumer spending, demand for electronic products and semiconductors, governmental renewable energy policies and incentives, and customers' utilization rates and capacity requirements, including capacity utilizing the latest technology; variability of operating results among the company's segments caused by differing conditions in the served markets; Applied's ability to (i) develop, deliver and support a broad range of products, expand its markets and develop new markets, (ii) timely implement and maintain effective cost reduction programs, realize expected benefits, and align its cost structure with business conditions, (iii) plan and manage its resources and production capability, including its supply chain, (iv) implement initiatives that enhance global operations and
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 3 of 7
efficiencies, (v) obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies, and (vi) attract, motivate and retain key employees; and other risks described in Applied Materials' SEC filings. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
     Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq: AMAT) is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, services and software products for the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panel displays, solar photovoltaic cells, flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass. At Applied Materials, we apply Nanomanufacturing Technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 4 of 7
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 5 of 7
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 6 of 7
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 7 of 7
 


