FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20090210161556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 10, 2009, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied Materials") announced its financial results for its first fiscal quarter ended January 25, 2009. A copy of Applied Materials' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied Materials, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
     SANTA CLARA, Calif., February 10, 2009  Applied Materials, Inc. today reported that for its first fiscal quarter ended January 25, 2009, net sales were $1.33 billion, gross margin was 29.4 percent, GAAP net loss was $133 million, GAAP net loss per share was $0.10, and new orders were $903 million. These results included a restructuring charge of $133 million associated with a global cost reduction program announced on November 12, 2008.
     "We acted early and decisively to reduce costs in line with economic conditions that have resulted in an unprecedented decline in demand," said Mike Splinter, president and CEO. "With our leading technology and strong balance sheet, Applied is positioned to weather this recession and invest in new products and services."
     The following table shows comparisons to the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008.
     Regional distribution of new orders was: Europe 39 percent, North America 26 percent, Japan 17 percent, Southeast Asia and China 9 percent, Korea 7 percent, and Taiwan 2 percent. Backlog at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2009 was $4.05 billion, down from $4.85 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.
     Non-GAAP net loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 was $3 million, or $0.00 per share. The following table shows comparisons of non-GAAP results to the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008. Non-GAAP adjustments are explained below and detailed in the accompanying Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Results.
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 2 of 7
     Non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share, detailed in the accompanying Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Results, exclude charges related to one or more of the following: (i) equity-based compensation, (ii) gain on sale of facility, (iii) certain items associated with acquisitions, including amortization of intangibles and inventory fair value adjustments on products sold, (iv) restructuring and asset impairments, (v) certain costs associated with ceasing development of beamline implant products, and/or (vi) the resolution of income tax audits and changes in tax credits. Management uses non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share to evaluate the company's operating and financial performance in light of business objectives and for planning purposes. These measures are not in accordance with GAAP and may differ from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. Applied believes that these measures enhance investors' ability to review the company's business from the same perspective as the company's management and facilitate comparisons of this period's results with prior periods. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered a substitute for net income (loss) or earnings (loss) per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     Results by reportable segment for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008 were:
     Applied Materials will discuss its fiscal 2009 first quarter results on the earnings call today beginning at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. A webcast of the earnings call will be available at
www.appliedmaterials.com.
     This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Applied's performance, cost reductions, strategic position, financial strength and product investment. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "can," "should," "will," "forecast" or similar expressions, and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to: the level of demand for nanomanufacturing technology products, which is subject to many factors, including uncertain global economic and industry conditions, business and consumer spending, demand for electronic products and semiconductors, governmental renewable energy policies and incentives, and customers' utilization rates and
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 3 of 7
capacity requirements, including capacity utilizing the latest technology; the duration and severity of the recession; customers' ability to acquire sufficient capital and/or obtain regulatory approvals; variability of operating results among the company's segments caused by differing conditions in the served markets; Applied's ability to (i) develop, deliver and support a broad range of products, expand its markets and develop new markets, (ii) timely implement and maintain effective cost reduction programs, realize expected benefits, and align its cost structure with business conditions, (iii) plan and manage its resources and production capability, including its supply chain, (iv) implement initiatives that enhance global operations and efficiencies, (v) obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies, and (vi) attract, motivate and retain key employees; and other risks described in Applied Materials' SEC filings, including its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
     Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq: AMAT) is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, services and software products for the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panel displays, solar photovoltaic cells, flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass. At Applied Materials, we apply Nanomanufacturing Technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at
www.appliedmaterials.com.
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 4 of 7
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 5 of 7
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 6 of 7
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 7 of 7
 


