FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20091208172649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On December 7, 2009, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied") appointed Susan M. James to serve as a member of the Board and as a member of the Board's Audit Committee, effective immediately.
Pursuant to the terms of Applied's Employee Stock Incentive Plan, Ms. James was automatically granted 3,845 performance shares (or restricted stock units) on December 7, 2009, the day of her appointment. These performance shares are scheduled to vest in four equal annual installments beginning one year after the grant date, subject to Ms. James' continued service as a director on each such installment date. Ms. James will also participate in the standard non-employee director compensation arrangements described in Applied's 2009 Proxy Statement that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 27, 2009, as updated by Item 8.01 below.
(e)(1) On December 7, 2009, the Board approved a "clawback" policy that will apply to certain officers of Applied, including (but not limited to) Michael R. Splinter, President and Chief Executive Officer; Franz Janker, Executive Vice President, Corporate Account Manager; George S. Davis, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer; Manfred Kerschbaum, Senior Vice President, Chief of Staff; and Mark R. Pinto, Senior Vice President, General Manager Energy and Environmental Solutions and Display and Chief Technology Officer. These individuals are Applied's named executive officers (the "NEOs").
Under the policy, if the Board determines that a material negative restatement of Applied's financial results was caused primarily by an NEO's intentional misconduct, then the Board may require reimbursement of any portion of the bonus and performance-based equity awards ("performance-based awards") that the NEO would not have received if Applied's financial results had been reported properly. The policy applies to financial statements filed in a rolling three-year look-back period. The Board administers the policy and determines, in its sole discretion, the amount of compensation to be reimbursed. The policy applies to bonuses paid and performance-based awards (whether or not vested) for which performance goals have been achieved within 12 months following the release of Applied's filed financial statements that become subject to a material negative restatement.
 
On December 8, 2009, Applied issued a press release announcing the appointment of Susan M. James to the Board. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 7.01, including the exhibit, is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities under that section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of Applied under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
In a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 13, 2009 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Applied announced a twenty percent (20%) reduction in the annual cash retainer for non-employee directors of the Board.
On December 7, 2009, the Board's Human Resources and Compensation Committee approved the termination of the 20% reduction in the annual cash retainer for non-employee directors of the Board, effective immediately. As a result, the non-employee directors' annual cash retainer has been reinstated to $65,000, the annual cash retainer for non-employee directors of the Board in effect prior to the 20% reduction. This termination of the 20% reduction in non-employee directors' compensation is consistent with the previously-announced termination of a 20% reduction in base salary for Applied's NEOs.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., December 8, 2009  Applied Materials, Inc. today announced the appointment of Susan M. James to serve on its Board of Directors, effective immediately. Ms. James has also been appointed to serve as a member of the Board's Audit Committee.
"Sue brings to Applied a wealth of financial knowledge and extensive finance and accounting experience from working with global technology companies," said Mike Splinter, chairman and CEO of Applied Materials. "Her expertise will be invaluable to the Board, and we look forward to her insight as we execute on our multi-business strategy."
Ms. James was a partner at Ernst & Young, serving as the partner-in-charge of the audit work for a significant number of technology companies, including Intel Corporation, Sun Microsystems, Amazon.com, Autodesk and the Hewlett-Packard Corporation. Ms. James joined Ernst & Young in 1975, became a partner in 1987, and since June 2006 has been a consultant to the firm. She also served on the Ernst & Young Americas Executive Board of Directors from January 2002 through June 2006. Ms. James is a certified public accountant and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. She serves on the boards of directors of Coherent, Inc. and the non-profit Tri-Valley Animal Rescue.
Ms. James holds B.S. degrees from Hunter College and San Jose State University.
Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq:AMAT) is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, services and software products for the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panels, solar photovoltaic cells, flexible electronics and energy efficient glass. At Applied Materials, we apply Nanomanufacturing Technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at www.appliedmaterials.com.


