FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20100712170136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Applied Materials, Inc. (Applied) has announced the retirement of Franz Janker, executive vice president, Corporate Account Management, effective July 30, 2010, after 28 years in sales and marketing roles with the company.
(e) On July 9, 2010, Applied entered into a retirement agreement and release with Mr. Janker (the Agreement). The Agreement provides Mr. Janker with a right of revocation through and including July 16, 2010. If Mr. Janker does not revoke the Agreement and it becomes effective and is not breached, Mr. Janker will receive cash severance payments totaling $1,979,314 in three installments due as follows: $714,657 on August 15, 2010, $550,000 on January 31, 2011, and $714,657 on August 1, 2011. The Agreement also includes, among other terms, a general release in favor of Applied, as well as confidentiality, non-disparagement, non-solicitation and non-competition obligations by Mr. Janker.
 
On July 10, 2010, Applied issued a press release announcing Mr. Janker's retirement. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 7.01 and in Exhibit 99.1 is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities under that section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of Applied under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., July 10, 2010  Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq: AMAT) today announced the retirement of Franz Janker, executive vice president, Corporate Account Management, effective on July 30, 2010, after 28 years in sales and marketing roles with the company.
"Franz has been integral to Applied's growth and success through his leadership of our global sales and marketing organization and management of strategic relationships with key customers," said Mike Splinter, chairman and CEO of Applied Materials. "We are grateful to Franz for his many contributions over the last 28 years, including his recent leadership in realigning our global sales teams into the business units."
Janker has served as executive vice president, Corporate Account Management, since September 2009. Since joining Applied Materials in 1982, Janker has held various sales and marketing management positions in the United States and Europe, including executive vice president, Sales and Marketing; senior vice president, Global Operations and Corporate Marketing; and group vice president, Corporate Marketing and Business Management.
Applied Materials, Inc. is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, service and software products for the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panel displays, solar photovoltaic cells, flexible electronics and energy efficient glass. At Applied Materials, we apply nanomanufacturing technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at www.appliedmaterials.com.


