FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20100519160522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 19, 2010, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied Materials") announced its financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended May 2, 2010. A copy of Applied Materials' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied Materials, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
SANTA CLARA, Calif., May 19, 2010  Applied Materials, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMAT), the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions for the semiconductor, flat panel display and solar industries, today reported results for its second quarter of fiscal 2010 ended May 2, 2010. Applied generated net sales of $2.30 billion, operating profit of $386 million, and net income of $264 million or $0.20 per share. Non-GAAP net income was $292 million or $0.22 per share.
"Applied's stronger second quarter results were led by revenue and profitability gains in our silicon and flat panel display businesses," said Mike Splinter, chairman and chief executive officer. "Global demand for computing and consumer electronics is giving our customers the confidence to make significant capacity additions, fueling what we believe will be a multiyear growth cycle. During the quarter, we announced a 17 percent increase in our quarterly dividend and resumed our stock repurchase program."
"Our results were at the high end of our expectations despite an inventory charge for thin film solar equipment that lowered the gross profit margin by 3.6 percentage points or approximately $0.04 per share," said George Davis, chief financial officer.
Financial Results Summary
Fiscal year 2010 is a 53-week year with 14 weeks in the first quarter.
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 2 of 9
The non-GAAP results exclude the impact of the following, where applicable: restructuring and asset impairments, certain acquisition-related costs, investment impairments, and amounts associated with the resolution of income tax audits. Effective the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the non-GAAP results no longer exclude the impact of equity-based compensation. A reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the financial statements included in this release.
Reportable Segment Results
Silicon had new orders of $1.42 billion, net sales of $1.40 billion and operating income of $498 million. The net sales increase of 45 percent over the first quarter reflected higher shipments to foundry and DRAM customers along with the addition of Semitool. New order composition was: DRAM 41 percent, foundry 37 percent, logic and other 12 percent, and flash 10 percent.
Applied Global Services (AGS) had new orders of $483 million. Net sales were $456 million, up 7 percent sequentially, and operating income was $90 million.
The Display group had new orders of $256 million, net sales of $270 million and operating income of $90 million. Net sales more than doubled over the first quarter primarily driven by Generation 8.5 system shipments.
The Energy and Environmental Solutions (EES) group had new orders of $378 million. Net sales were $166 million, down 48 percent from the first quarter, primarily due to lower thin film revenue. EES had an operating loss of $145 million, which included an $83 million inventory charge related to thin film solar manufacturing equipment.
Additional Quarterly Financial Information
Business Outlook
For the third quarter of fiscal 2010, Applied expects net sales to be in the range of down two percent to up five percent quarter over quarter. The company expects non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $0.22 to $0.26 which excludes known charges related to completed acquisitions of approximately $0.01 per share. This outlook does not take into account other non-GAAP adjustments that may arise subsequent to this release.
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 3 of 9
On March 30, 2010, Applied raised its fiscal year net sales outlook to growth of more than 60 percent over fiscal 2009.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Management uses non-GAAP results to evaluate the company's operating and financial performance in light of business objectives and for planning purposes. These measures are not in accordance with GAAP and may differ from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. Applied Materials believes these measures enhance investors' ability to review the company's business from the same perspective as the company's management and facilitate comparisons of this period's results with prior periods. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Webcast Information
Applied Materials will discuss these results during an earnings call that begins at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live webcast will be available at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Applied's performance, growth opportunities, third quarter and fiscal year 2010 business outlooks, industry outlooks, and customers' investments. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "can," "should," "will," "forecast," "anticipate" or similar expressions, and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to: the level of demand for Applied's products, which is subject to many factors, including uncertain global economic and industry conditions, customers' ability to acquire affordable capital, business and consumer spending, demand for electronic products and semiconductors, government renewable energy policies and incentives, and customers' utilization rates and new technology and capacity requirements; variability of operating expenses and results among the company's segments caused by differing conditions in the served markets; Applied's ability to (i) develop, deliver and support a broad range of products, expand its markets and develop new markets, (ii) timely implement effective cost reduction programs, realize expected benefits, and align its cost structure with business conditions, (iii) plan and manage its resources and production capability, including its supply chain, (iv) implement initiatives that enhance global operations and efficiencies, (v) realize synergies from, and successfully commercialize technologies acquired in, business acquisitions, (vi) maintain effective internal controls and procedures, (vii) obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies, (viii) attract, motivate and retain key employees, and (ix) accurately forecast future operating and financial results, which depends on multiple assumptions related to, without limitation, market conditions and business needs; and other risks described in Applied Materials' SEC filings. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 4 of 9
About Applied Materials
Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq: AMAT) is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, services and software products for the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panel displays, solar photovoltaic cells, flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass. At Applied Materials, we apply Nanomanufacturing Technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 5 of 9
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 6 of 9
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 7 of 9
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 8 of 9
Reportable Segment Results
Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, Applied changed its methodology for allocating certain expenses to its reportable segments. Applied has reclassified segment operating results for the three months ended April 26, 2009 to conform to the fiscal 2010 presentation.
Additional Information
 
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 9 of 9
These items are incremental charges attributable to acquisitions consisting of inventory fair value adjustments on products sold and amortization of purchased intangible assets.
1
Results for the three and six months ended May 2, 2010 included asset impairment charges of $9 million related to a facility held for sale.
2
Results for the three months ended January 31, 2010 and the six months ended May 2, 2010 included restructuring charges of $104 million associated with a restructuring program announced on November 11, 2009.
3
Results for the three months ended April 26, 2009 included asset impairment charges of $15 million related to wafer cleaning equipment and restructuring charges of $12 million primarily associated with a restructuring program announced on November 12, 2008. Results for the six months ended April 26, 2009 included asset impairment charges of $15 million related to wafer cleaning equipment and restructuring charges of $145 million associated with a restructuring program announced on November 12, 2008.
4
Effective the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the non-GAAP results no longer exclude the impact of equity-based compensation. Previously reported non-GAAP results have been restated to conform to the fiscal 2010 presentation.


