FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20100217160545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 17, 2010, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied Materials") announced its financial results for its first fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2010. A copy of Applied Materials' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied Materials, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Feb. 17, 2010  Applied Materials, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMAT), the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions for the semiconductor, flat panel display and solar industries, today reported results for its first quarter of fiscal 2010 ended January 31, 2010. Applied generated net sales of $1.85 billion, operating profit of $116 million, and net income of $83 million or $0.06 per share. Non-GAAP net income was $179 million or $0.13 per share.
"Applied posted solid first quarter results led by robust sales in our semiconductor equipment business," said Mike Splinter, chairman and CEO. "With global demand improving in our customers' end markets, we are raising our full-year revenue target to reflect higher anticipated demand in our semiconductor, LCD display and crystalline silicon solar businesses."
"During the quarter, we completed the acquisition of Semitool Inc., opening new growth opportunities in our core semiconductor equipment market, particularly in advanced packaging," Splinter added. "Applied enters its second quarter with considerable momentum, and we are off to an excellent start for the year."
Financial Results Summary
Fiscal year 2010 is a 53-week year with 14 weeks in the first quarter.
The non-GAAP results exclude the impact of the following, where applicable: restructuring and asset impairments, acquisition-related costs, investment impairments, gains on sales of facilities, and amounts associated with the resolution of income tax audits. Effective the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the non-GAAP results no longer exclude the impact of equity-
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 2 of 8
based compensation. A reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the financial statements included in this release.
Reportable Segment Results
The Silicon Systems Group (SSG) had new orders of $1.13 billion, net sales of $970 million and operating income of $306 million. The 48 percent sequential increase in net sales was led by shipments to foundry and DRAM customers. New order composition was: foundry 42 percent, DRAM 36 percent, flash 13 percent, and logic and other 9 percent.
Applied Global Services (AGS) had new orders of $474 million, net sales of $426 million and operating income of $63 million. Sequential growth in net sales of 9 percent was driven primarily by semiconductor customer increases in factory utilization levels and new wafer starts.
The Display group had new orders of $126 million, net sales of $132 million and operating income of $25 million. The sequential decline in net sales was expected following a strong prior quarter.
The Energy and Environmental Solutions (EES) group had new orders of $230 million, net sales of $321 million and an operating loss of $36 million. Net sales included revenue for two additional SunFab thin film solar production lines.
Financial Highlights
Applied generated operating cash flow of $367 million during the quarter. The company acquired Semitool Inc. in an all-cash transaction for $323 million, net of cash acquired, and paid cash dividends of $80 million. At the end of the period, the company held $3.2 billion in cash and investments.
Business Outlook
For the second quarter of fiscal 2010, Applied expects quarter over quarter net sales growth of between 15 percent and 25 percent. The company expects non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $0.17 to $0.22, which excludes anticipated charges related primarily to acquisitions.
For fiscal 2010, Applied expects net sales to grow by more than 50 percent, an increase from the previous outlook of greater than 30 percent.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Management uses non-GAAP results to evaluate the company's operating and financial performance in light of business objectives and for planning purposes. These measures are not in accordance with GAAP and may differ from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. Applied
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 3 of 8
Materials believes these measures enhance investors' ability to review the company's business from the same perspective as the company's management and facilitate comparisons of this period's results with prior periods. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Webcast Information
Applied Materials will discuss these results during an earnings call that begins at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live webcast will be available at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Applied's performance, second quarter and fiscal year 2010 business outlooks, and growth opportunities. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "can," "should," "will," "forecast," "anticipate" or similar expressions, and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to: the level of demand for nanomanufacturing technology products, which is subject to many factors, including uncertain global economic and industry conditions, customers' ability to acquire affordable capital, business and consumer spending, demand for electronic products and semiconductors, government renewable energy policies and incentives, and customers' utilization rates and capacity requirements, including capacity utilizing the latest technology; variability of operating expenses and results among the company's segments caused by differing conditions in the served markets; Applied's ability to (i) develop, deliver and support a broad range of products, expand its markets and develop new markets, (ii) timely implement and maintain effective cost reduction programs, realize expected benefits, and align its cost structure with business conditions, (iii) plan and manage its resources and production capability, including its supply chain, (iv) implement information technology, business process, outsourcing, business relocation and other initiatives that enhance global operations and efficiencies, (v) realize synergies from, and successfully commercialize technologies acquired in, business acquisitions, (vi) maintain effective internal controls and procedures, (vii) obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies, (viii) attract, motivate and retain key employees, and (ix) accurately forecast future operating and financial results, which depends on multiple assumptions related to, without limitation, market conditions and business needs; and other risks described in Applied Materials' SEC filings. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
About Applied Materials
Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq: AMAT) is the global leader in Nanomanufacturing Technology solutions with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, services and software products for the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panel displays, solar photovoltaic cells, flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass. At Applied Materials, we apply Nanomanufacturing Technology to improve the way people live. Learn more at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 4 of 8
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 5 of 8
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 6 of 8
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 7 of 8
Reportable Segment Results
Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, Applied changed its methodology for allocating certain expenses to its reportable segments. Applied has reclassified segment operating results for the three months ended October 25, 2009 and January 25, 2009 to conform to the fiscal 2010 presentation.
Additional Information
 
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 8 of 8
 
Effective the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the non-GAAP results no longer exclude the impact of equity-based compensation. Previously reported non-GAAP results have been restated to conform to the fiscal 2010 presentation.


