FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20110524160523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 24, 2011, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied Materials") announced its financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended May 1, 2011. A copy of Applied Materials' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied Materials, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
SANTA CLARA, Calif., May 24, 2011  Applied Materials, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMAT), the world's leading supplier of manufacturing solutions for the semiconductor, display and solar industries, today reported results for its second quarter of fiscal 2011 ended May 1, 2011. Applied generated orders of $3.19 billion, net sales of $2.86 billion, operating income of $677 million, and net income of $489 million or $0.37 per share. Non-GAAP operating income was $685 million, and non-GAAP net income was $501 million or $0.38 per share.
"Applied delivered one of the best quarters in the company's history, including record net sales in our solar business," said Mike Splinter, chairman and chief executive officer. "While near-term economic conditions have tempered our growth expectations, our outlook for the year remains strong driven by our customers' plans to invest in the advanced technologies needed to meet growing demand for mobile devices and consumer electronics."
Splinter added, "Earlier this month, we announced the planned acquisition of Varian Semiconductor to strengthen our leadership in the semiconductor industry and deliver value to our customers, shareholders and employees worldwide."
"We exceeded our guidance for net sales in the second quarter and delivered earnings per share at the high end of the range," said George Davis, chief financial officer. "During the quarter, we also raised our dividend by 14 percent to 8 cents per share and generated operating cash flow of more than $700 million."
Financial Results Summary
The non-GAAP results exclude the impact of the following, where applicable: restructuring and asset impairment charges and any associated adjustment related to restructuring actions, certain discrete tax items, certain acquisition-related costs, investment impairments, and gain or loss on sale of facilities.
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 2 of 9
A reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the financial statements included in this release. See also "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below.
Fiscal Second Quarter Reportable Segment Results
Silicon Systems Group (SSG) orders were $1.71 billion, up 7 percent sequentially. Net sales were $1.45 billion, down 3 percent sequentially. Operating income decreased 10 percent sequentially to $491 million or 34 percent of net sales on a weaker mix. New order composition was: foundry 47 percent, logic and other 25 percent, flash 16 percent, and DRAM 12 percent.
Applied Global Services (AGS) orders were $603 million, up 9 percent sequentially. Net sales were a record $614 million, up 8 percent sequentially, led by higher shipments of 200mm equipment. Operating income increased to $91 million or 15 percent of net sales and included $24 million in intangible asset impairment charges.
Display orders were $255 million, up 80 percent sequentially driven primarily by growth in equipment for producing touch panels and advanced mobile device displays. Net sales were $158 million, up 7 percent sequentially. Operating income increased to $31 million or 19 percent of net sales.
Energy and Environmental Solutions (EES) orders were $612 million, down 8 percent sequentially. Net sales set a record at $637 million, up 34 percent sequentially. Operating income increased to $170 million or 27 percent of net sales.
Additional Quarterly Financial Information
Business Outlook
For the third quarter of fiscal 2011, Applied expects net sales to be down in the range of 3 percent to 10 percent sequentially. The company expects non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $0.31 to $0.37. The non-GAAP EPS outlook excludes known charges related to completed acquisitions of approximately $0.01 per share, but does not exclude other non-GAAP adjustments that may arise subsequent to this release. The non-GAAP EPS outlook includes the potential cost of long-term financing related to the planned Varian acquisition of approximately $0.01 cent per share.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Management uses non-GAAP results to evaluate the company's operating and financial performance in light of business objectives and for planning purposes. These measures are not in accordance with GAAP and may differ from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. Applied Materials believes these measures enhance investors' ability to review the company's business from the
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 3 of 9
same perspective as the company's management and facilitate comparisons of this period's results with prior periods. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Webcast Information
Applied Materials will discuss these results during an earnings call that begins at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live webcast will be available at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Applied's performance and full-year outlook, customers' investments, the planned acquisition of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (Varian) and associated benefits, and the business outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "can," "should," "will," "forecast," "anticipate" or similar expressions, and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to: the level of demand for Applied's products, which is subject to many factors, including uncertain global economic and industry conditions, business and consumer spending, demand for electronic products and semiconductors, government renewable energy policies and incentives, and customers' utilization rates and new technology and capacity requirements; variability of operating expenses and results among the company's segments caused by differing conditions in the served markets; Applied's ability to (i) develop, deliver and support a broad range of products, expand its markets and develop new markets, (ii) timely align its cost structure with business conditions, (iii) plan and manage its resources and production capability, including its supply chain, (iv) implement initiatives that enhance global operations and efficiencies, (v) consummate the proposed merger with Varian in a timely manner or at all, which depends on satisfaction of conditions precedent, including receipt of certain regulatory approvals and approval by Varian's stockholders, (vi) complete anticipated financing arrangements, (vii) integrate Varian's operations, product lines, technology and employees and realize synergies from the proposed merger, (viii) obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies, (ix) attract, motivate and retain key employees, and (x) accurately forecast future operating and financial results, which depends on multiple assumptions related to, without limitation, market conditions, customer requirements and business needs; and other risks described in Applied Materials' SEC filings. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
About Applied Materials
Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq:AMAT) is the global leader in providing innovative equipment, services and software to enable the manufacture of advanced semiconductor, flat panel display and solar photovoltaic products. Our technologies help make innovations like smartphones, flat screen TVs and solar panels more affordable and accessible to consumers and businesses around the world. At Applied Materials, we turn today's innovations into the industries of tomorrow. Learn more at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 4 of 9
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 5 of 9
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 6 of 9
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 7 of 9
Reportable Segment Results
Corporate Unallocated Expenses
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 8 of 9
Additional Information
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 9 of 9
 


