FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20110824160702.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 24, 2011, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied Materials") announced its financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2011. A copy of Applied Materials' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied Materials, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., August 24, 2011  Applied Materials, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMAT), the world's leading supplier of manufacturing solutions for the semiconductor, display and solar industries, today reported results for its third quarter of fiscal 2011 ended July 31, 2011. Applied generated orders of $2.39 billion, net sales of $2.79 billion, operating income of $687 million, and net income of $476 million or $0.36 per share. Non-GAAP operating income was $683 million, and non-GAAP net income was $467 million or $0.35 per share.
"Applied delivered solid third quarter results, with earnings and revenue at the upper end of our expectations," said Mike Splinter, chairman and chief executive officer. "While the fundamental drivers of our markets remain strong, we are seeing softness in our business resulting from the uncertain economic environment and overcapacity in solar."
"Our cumulative net sales and non-GAAP earnings per share over the past four quarters have been the strongest in the company's history," said George Davis, chief financial officer. "In our most recent quarter, Applied generated nearly $600 million in operating cash flow and issued $1.75 billion in long-term debt to support the Varian acquisition."
Financial Results Summary
 
Applied's Q3 FY2010 results included $405 million in charges associated with the EES restructuring plan announced in July 2010, consisting in part of $250 million in inventory-related charges that reduced GAAP and non-GAAP EPS by $0.12. Non-GAAP results for the above periods exclude the impact of the following, where applicable: restructuring and asset impairment charges and any associated adjustment related to restructuring actions, certain discrete tax items, certain acquisition-related costs, investment impairments, and gain or loss on sale of facilities. A reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the financial statements included in this release. See also "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below.
Applied Materials, Inc.
Page 2 of 10
 
Fiscal Third Quarter Reportable Segment Results and Comparisons to the Prior Quarter
Silicon Systems Group (SSG) orders were $1.24 billion, down 28 percent primarily due to weaker demand in foundry. Net sales were $1.40 billion, down 4 percent. Operating income decreased to $452 million or 32 percent of net sales, reflecting the lower revenue. New order composition was: foundry 37 percent, logic and other 25 percent, flash 23 percent, and DRAM 15 percent.
Applied Global Services (AGS) orders were $613 million, up 2 percent. Net sales were $603 million, down 2 percent. Operating income increased by 61 percent to $146 million or 24 percent of net sales driven primarily by higher margins in 200 millimeter equipment as well as services.
Display orders were $220 million, down 14 percent due primarily to reduced demand from LCD TV customers. Net sales were $223 million, up 41 percent, and operating income increased to $58 million or 26 percent of net sales.
Energy and Environmental Solutions (EES) orders were $318 million, down 48 percent as customers digested record capital additions in recent quarters. Net sales were $563 million, down 12 percent. Operating income decreased to $123 million or 22 percent of net sales and included $3 million in asset impairment charges.
Additional Quarterly Financial Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, Applied expects net sales to be down in the range of 15 percent to 30 percent sequentially. The company expects non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $0.16 to $0.24. The non-GAAP EPS outlook excludes known charges related to completed acquisitions of approximately $0.01 per share, but does not exclude other non-GAAP adjustments that may arise subsequent to this release.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Management uses non-GAAP results to evaluate the company's operating and financial performance in light of business objectives and for planning purposes. These measures are not in accordance with GAAP and may differ from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. Applied believes these measures enhance investors' ability to review the company's business from the same perspective as the company's management and facilitate comparisons of this period's results with prior periods. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Applied Materials, Inc.
Page 3 of 10
 
Webcast Information
Applied Materials will discuss these results during an earnings call that begins at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live webcast will be available at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Applied's performance, market drivers, and the business outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "can," "should," "will," "anticipate" or similar expressions, and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to: the level of demand for Applied's products, which is subject to many factors, including uncertain global economic and industry conditions, business and consumer spending, demand for electronic products and semiconductors, government renewable energy policies and incentives, and customers' utilization rates and new technology and capacity requirements; variability of operating expenses and results among the company's segments caused by differing conditions in the served markets; Applied's ability to (i) develop, deliver and support a broad range of products, expand its markets and develop new markets, (ii) timely align its cost structure with business conditions, (iii) plan and manage its resources and production capability, including its supply chain, (iv) implement initiatives that enhance global operations and efficiencies, (v) consummate the proposed merger with Varian in a timely manner or at all, which depends on satisfaction of conditions precedent, including receipt of certain regulatory approvals, (vi) integrate Varian's operations, product lines, technology and employees and realize synergies, (vii) obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies, (viii) attract, motivate and retain key employees, and (ix) accurately forecast future operating and financial results, which depends on multiple assumptions related to, without limitation, market conditions, customer requirements and business needs; and other risks described in Applied Materials' SEC filings. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
About Applied Materials
Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq:AMAT) is the global leader in providing innovative equipment, services and software to enable the manufacture of advanced semiconductor, flat panel display and solar photovoltaic products. Our technologies help make innovations like smartphones, flat screen TVs and solar panels more affordable and accessible to consumers and businesses around the world. At Applied Materials, we turn today's innovations into the industries of tomorrow. Learn more at
www.appliedmaterials.com.
Applied Materials, Inc.
Page 4 of 10
 
 
Applied Materials, Inc.
Page 5 of 10
 
 
Applied Materials, Inc.
Page 6 of 10
 
 
Applied Materials, Inc.
Page 7 of 10
 
Reportable Segment Results
 
Corporate Unallocated Expenses
 
Applied Materials, Inc.
Page 8 of 10
 
Additional Information
 
Applied Materials, Inc.
Page 9 of 10
 
 
 
Applied Materials, Inc.
Page 10 of 10
 


