FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20110224160558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 24, 2011, Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied Materials") announced its financial results for its first fiscal quarter ended January 30, 2011. A copy of Applied Materials' press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of Applied Materials, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Feb. 24, 2011  Applied Materials, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMAT), the world's leading supplier of manufacturing solutions for the semiconductor, display and solar industries, today reported results for its first quarter of fiscal 2011 ended Jan. 30, 2011. Applied generated orders of $2.97 billion, net sales of $2.69 billion, operating income of $674 million, and net income of $506 million or $0.38 per share. Non-GAAP operating income was $659 million, and non-GAAP net income was $484 million or $0.36 per share.
"Applied's solid first quarter was driven by continued strength in semiconductor systems and record profitability in solar," said Mike Splinter, chairman and chief executive officer. "We see momentum building in our end markets and expect our company's fiscal year revenue to be more than $11 billion, exceeding our previous record by over a billion dollars. We now expect wafer fab equipment spending to be up 10 to 15 percent from approximately $31 billion in calendar 2010, with crystalline silicon solar equipment spending rising by more than 30 percent year over year."
"On a year-over-year basis, our non-GAAP earnings per share grew more than 170 percent on a 45 percent increase in net sales, demonstrating our focus on operating efficiencies and profitability improvement," said George Davis, executive vice president and chief financial officer. "With the improving market outlook, we expect to deliver record non-GAAP earnings of more than $1.50 per share in fiscal 2011."
Financial Results Summary
The non-GAAP results exclude the impact of the following, where applicable: restructuring and asset impairment charges and any associated adjustment related to restructuring actions, certain discrete tax items, certain acquisition-related costs, investment impairments, and gain or loss on sale of facilities. A reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the financial statements included in this release. See also "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below.
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 2 of 9
Reportable Segment Results
Silicon Systems Group (SSG) orders were $1.61 billion in the first quarter, down 4 percent from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Net sales increased to $1.50 billion, up 1 percent. Operating income decreased by 4 percent from the fourth quarter to $543 million or 36 percent of net sales. New order composition was: foundry 54 percent, logic and other 23 percent, DRAM 13 percent, and flash 10 percent.
Applied Global Services (AGS) orders were $552 million in the first quarter, down 13 percent from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Net sales increased to $567 million, up 10 percent from the fourth quarter, led by higher shipments of 200mm equipment. Operating income decreased to $85 million or 15 percent of net sales as a result of lower margins on 200mm equipment.
Display orders declined 19 percent from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 to $142 million. Net sales were $147 million, down 48 percent from the fourth quarter, primarily driven by a cyclical decline in LCD equipment demand. Operating income decreased to $28 million or 19 percent of net sales.
Energy and Environmental Solutions (EES) had record orders of $668 million in the first quarter, up 22 percent from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Net sales were $476 million, down 22 percent from the fourth quarter which included $230 million in thin film equipment sales. Net sales of crystalline silicon equipment set a record in the first quarter. Operating income increased to $144 million or 30 percent of net sales, and included a favorable adjustment of $28 million related to a previously announced restructuring program. Excluding this adjustment, operating income would have been 24 percent of net sales.
Additional Quarterly Financial Information
Business Outlook
For the second quarter of fiscal 2011, Applied expects net sales to be in the range of flat to up 5 percent quarter over quarter. The company expects non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $0.34 to $0.38, which excludes known charges related to completed acquisitions of approximately $0.01 per share. The expected full-year non-GAAP EPS of $1.50 excludes known charges related to completed acquisitions of approximately $0.04 per share along with favorable adjustments of $0.02 per share related to previously announced restructurings and the reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit. The non-GAAP EPS amounts do not take into account other non-GAAP adjustments that may arise subsequent to this release.
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 3 of 9
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Management uses non-GAAP results to evaluate the company's operating and financial performance in light of business objectives and for planning purposes. These measures are not in accordance with GAAP and may differ from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. Applied Materials believes these measures enhance investors' ability to review the company's business from the same perspective as the company's management and facilitate comparisons of this period's results with prior periods. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Webcast Information
Applied Materials will discuss these results during an earnings call that begins at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live webcast will be available at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Applied's performance, products, end markets, wafer fab and solar equipment spending outlooks, profitability, fiscal 2011 revenue and earnings expectations, and second quarter of fiscal 2011 business outlook. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "expect," "believe," "may," "can," "should," "will," "forecast," "anticipate" or similar expressions, and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to: the level of demand for Applied's products, which is subject to many factors, including uncertain global economic and industry conditions, business and consumer spending, demand for electronic products and semiconductors, government renewable energy policies and incentives, and customers' utilization rates and new technology and capacity requirements; variability of operating expenses and results among the company's segments caused by differing conditions in the served markets; Applied's ability to (i) develop, deliver and support a broad range of products, expand its markets and develop new markets, (ii) timely implement effective cost reduction programs, realize expected benefits, and align its cost structure with business conditions, (iii) plan and manage its resources and production capability, including its supply chain, (iv) implement initiatives that enhance global operations and efficiencies, (v) maintain effective internal controls and procedures, (vi) obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies, (vii) attract, motivate and retain key employees, and (viii) accurately forecast future operating and financial results, which depends on multiple assumptions related to, without limitation, market conditions, customer requirements and business needs; and other risks described in Applied Materials' SEC filings. All forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
About Applied Materials
Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq:AMAT) is the global leader in providing innovative equipment, services and software to enable the manufacture of advanced semiconductor, flat panel display and solar photovoltaic products. Our technologies help make innovations like smartphones, flat screen TVs and solar panels more affordable and accessible to consumers and businesses around the world. At Applied Materials, we turn today's innovations into the industries of tomorrow. Learn more at .
www.appliedmaterials.com
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 4 of 9
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 5 of 9
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 6 of 9
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 7 of 9
Reportable Segment Results
Corporate Unallocated Expenses
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 8 of 9
Additional Information
 
Applied Materials, Inc. Page 9 of 9
 


