FILE:AMAT/AMAT-8K-20120309163353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) The Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Applied Materials, Inc. ("Applied" or the "Company") was held on March 6, 2012 (the "Annual Meeting"). At the Annual Meeting, the Company's stockholders approved the Company's amended and restated Employee Stock Incentive Plan (the "Stock Plan") and amended and restated Senior Executive Bonus Plan (the "Bonus Plan").
Amended and Restated Employee Stock Incentive Plan
The Stock Plan is intended to attract, motivate, and retain (a) employees of Applied and its subsidiaries, (b) directors of the Company who are employees of neither the Company nor any subsidiary, and (c) consultants who provide significant services to the Company and its subsidiaries. The Stock Plan also is designed to encourage stock ownership by employees, directors, and consultants, thereby aligning their interests with those of Applied's stockholders, and to permit the payment of compensation that qualifies as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
The Stock Plan permits grants of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, performance units, performance shares and restricted stock units to eligible employees, directors and consultants of the Company. Stockholders had previously approved the Employee Stock Incentive Plan at the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. At the Annual Meeting, the Company's stockholders approved an increase in the number of shares of Applied common stock available for issuance under the Stock Plan by 125,000,000 shares.
The Stock Plan is administered by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee"). Subject to the terms of the Stock Plan, the Committee has the sole discretion to select the employees, directors and consultants who will receive awards, determine the terms and conditions of awards, and interpret the provisions of the plan and outstanding awards.
The foregoing description of the Stock Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Stock Plan, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Amended and Restated Senior Executive Bonus Plan
The Bonus Plan provides for the payment of awards upon the achievement of specified performance goals. The Committee selects the officers of the Company or its affiliates who may participate and be eligible to receive awards under the Bonus Plan, and assigns each participant a target award and performance goal(s) for a performance period. The target award typically will be expressed as a dollar amount or as a percentage of base salary earned during the applicable performance period. The performance goals set by the Committee may require the achievement of objectives for one or more of: cash flow, customer satisfaction, earnings per share, margin, market share, operating profit, product development and quality, profit, return on capital, return
on equity, revenue or total shareholder return. The Committee may choose to measure performance goals in absolute terms, in combination with one or more performance goal(s), in relative terms, on a per-share or per-capita basis, against the performance of the Company as a whole or of a specific business unit(s), business segment(s) or product(s) of the Company, or on a pre-tax or after-tax basis. Each performance period may last from one fiscal year (or a period of four consecutive fiscal quarters) to three fiscal years (or a period of twelve consecutive fiscal quarters).
The actual award that is payable to a participant under the Bonus Plan is determined using a formula that increases or decreases the participant's target award based on the level of actual performance attained. The Bonus Plan limits actual awards to a maximum of $5,000,000 per person for or in any fiscal year. The Committee has discretion to reduce or eliminate (but not to increase) the actual award of any participant.
The foregoing description of the Bonus Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Bonus Plan, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
At the Annual Meeting, Applied's stockholders cast their votes on five proposals, as set forth below.
Proposal 1. Election of Directors.
 
Each of the eleven nominees was elected to serve as a director for a one-year term and until he or she is succeeded by another qualified director who has been elected, or, if earlier, until his or her death, resignation or removal.
Proposal 2.  Approval of the Amended and Restated Employee Stock Incentive Plan.
 
The amended and restated Employee Stock Incentive Plan was approved.
Proposal 3.  Approval of the Amended and Restated Senior Executive Bonus Plan.
 
The amended and restated Senior Executive Bonus Plan was approved.
Proposal 4.  Approval, on an Advisory Basis, of the Compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers.
 
The compensation of the Company's named executive officers, as disclosed in the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting, was approved on an advisory basis.
Proposal 5.  Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
 
The appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2012 was ratified.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
1.1 . The Plan permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock Awards, Performance Units, Performance Shares, and Restricted Stock Units. The Plan is effective as of March 6, 2012 (the ""), subject to approval by an affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the Shares that are present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company.
Background and Effective Date
Effective Date
 
1.2 . The Plan is intended to attract, motivate, and retain (a) employees of the Company and its Affiliates, (b) consultants who provide significant services to the Company and its Affiliates, and (c) directors of the Company who are employees of neither the Company nor any Affiliate. The Plan also is designed to: (1) encourage stock ownership by Participants, thereby aligning their interests with those of the Company's stockholders, and (2) permit the payment of compensation that qualifies as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Purpose of the Plan
 
 
The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:
 
2.1 "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the 1933 Act or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
1933 Act
 
2.2 "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the 1934 Act or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
1934 Act
 
2.3 "" means any corporation or any other entity (including, but not limited to, partnerships and joint ventures) controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Company.
Affiliate
 
2.4 "" means the Company's annual meeting of stockholders.
Annual Meeting
2.5 "" means the requirements relating to the administration of equity-based awards under U.S. federal and state corporate laws, U.S. federal and state securities laws, the Code, any stock exchange or quotation system on which the Company's common stock is listed or quoted and the applicable laws of any foreign country or jurisdiction where Awards are, or will be, granted under the Plan.
Applicable Laws
 
2.6 "" means, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, SARs, Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units or Performance Shares.
Award
 
2.7 "" means the written agreement (which may be in electronic form) setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to each Award granted under the Plan.
Award Agreement
 
2.8 "" or "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
Board of Directors
 
2.9 "" means as to any Performance Period, cash generated from business activities.
Cash Flow
 
2.10 "" means the occurrence of any of the following: (a) an act of personal dishonesty taken by the Participant in connection with his or her responsibilities as an employee and intended to result in his or her substantial personal enrichment; (b) the Participant being convicted of, or pleading no contest or guilty to, (x) a misdemeanor that the Company reasonably believes has had or will have a material detrimental effect on the Company; or (y) any felony; (c) a willful act by the Participant that constitutes gross misconduct; (d) the Participant's willful and continued failure to perform the reasonable duties and responsibilities of his or her position after there has been delivered to the Participant a written demand for performance from the Company that describes the basis for the Company's belief that the Participant has not substantially performed his or her duties and/or responsibilities and the Participant has not corrected such failure within 30 days of such written demand; or (e) a material violation by the Participant of any written, material Company employment policy or standard of conduct.
Cause
 
2.11 "" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change of Control
 
(a) A change in the ownership of the Company that occurs on the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group (""), acquires ownership of the stock of the Company that, together with the stock held by such Person, constitutes more than fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power of the stock of the Company. For purposes of this subsection (a), the acquisition of additional stock by any one Person, who is considered to own more than fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power of the stock of the Company will not be considered an additional Change of Control; or
Person
 
(b) A change in the effective control of the Company that occurs on the date that a majority of members of the Board is replaced during any twelve (12) month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election; or for purposes of this subsection (b), once any Person is considered to be in effective control of the Company, the acquisition of additional control of the Company by the same Person will not be considered an additional Change of Control; or
 
(c) A change in the ownership of a "substantial portion of the Company's assets", as defined herein. For this purpose, a "substantial portion of the Company's assets" shall mean assets of the Company having a total gross fair market value equal to or more than fifty percent (50%) of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Company immediately prior to such change in ownership. For purposes of this subsection (c), a change in ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets occurs on the date that any Person acquires (or has acquired during the twelve (12) month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from the Company that constitute a "substantial portion of the Company's assets." For purposes of this subsection (c), the following will not constitute a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets: (A) a transfer to an entity that is controlled by the Company's stockholders immediately after the transfer, or (B) a transfer of assets by the Company to: (1) a stockholder of the Company (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for or with respect to the Company's stock, (2) an entity, fifty percent (50%) or more of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company, (3) a Person, that owns, directly or indirectly, fifty percent (50%) or more of the total value or voting power of all the outstanding stock of the Company, or (4) an entity, at least fifty percent (50%) of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a Person described in this subsection (c). For purposes of this subsection (c), gross fair market value means the value of the assets of the Company, or the value of the assets being disposed of, determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.
 
For purposes of this Section 2.11, persons will be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar business transaction with the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed a Change of Control unless the transaction qualifies as a change of control event within the meaning of Section 409A.
 
Further and for the avoidance of doubt, a transaction will not constitute a Change of Control if its primary purpose is to: (1) change the state of the Company's incorporation, or (2) create a holding company that will be owned in substantially the same proportions by the persons who held the Company's securities immediately before such transaction.
 
2.12 "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended . Reference to a specific section of the Code or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
Code
 
2.13 "" means the committee appointed by the Board (pursuant to Section 3 . 1) to administer the Plan.
Committee
 
2.14 "" means Applied Materials, Inc. , a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.
Company
 
2.15 "" means any consultant, independent contractor, or other person who provides significant services to the Company or its Affiliates, but who is not an Employee or a Director.
Consultant
 
2.16 "" means as to any Performance Period, the objective and measurable goals approved by the Committee that relate to fulfillment of customer expectations and/or attainment of customer ratings.
Customer Satisfaction
 
2.17 "" means the latest possible date that will not jeopardize the qualification of an Award granted under the Plan as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Determination Date
 
2.18 "" means any individual who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Director
 
2.19 "" means a permanent and total disability within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code. In the case of Awards other than Incentive Stock Options, the Committee, in its discretion, may determine that a different definition of Disability shall apply in accordance with standards adopted by the Committee from time to time.
Disability
 
2.20 "" means as to any Performance Period, the Company's Profit, divided by a weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive common equivalent shares deemed outstanding for the Performance Period.
Earnings Per Share
 
2.21 "" means any employee of the Company or of an Affiliate, whether such employee is so employed at the time the Plan is adopted or becomes so employed subsequent to the adoption of the Plan. Neither service as a Director nor payment of a director's fee by the Company will constitute "employment" by the Company.
Employee
 
2.22 "" means a program under which outstanding Awards are amended to provide for a lower Exercise Price or surrendered or cancelled in exchange for (a) Awards with a lower Exercise Price, (b) a different type of Award, (c) cash, or (d) a combination of (a), (b) and/or (c). Notwithstanding the preceding, the term Exchange Program does not include any (i) action described in Sections 4.3 or 4.5, nor (ii) transfer or other disposition permitted under Sections 13.7 and 13.8. The implementation of any Exchange Program is subject to stockholder approval as required under Section 3.2.
Exchange Program
 
2.23 "" means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a Participant pursuant to the exercise of an Option or SAR.
Exercise Price
 
2.24 "" means the closing per share selling price for Shares on the relevant date, or if there were no sales on such date, the average of the closing sale prices on the immediately following and preceding trading dates, in either case as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market/National Market or such other source selected in the discretion of the Committee (or its delegate). Notwithstanding the preceding, for federal, state, and local income tax reporting purposes, fair market value shall be determined by the Committee (or its delegate) in accordance with uniform and nondiscriminatory standards adopted by it from time to time.
Fair Market Value
 
2.25 "" means a fiscal quarter within a Fiscal Year of the Company.
Fiscal Quarter
 
2.26 "" means the fiscal year of the Company.
Fiscal Year
 
2.27 "" means without the Participant's written consent: (a) a material reduction in the Participant's level of base salary, unless such reduction is no greater (in terms of percentage) than base salary reductions imposed on all or substantially all of the Company's employees; or (b) a material relocation of the Participant's principal place of employment by at least 50 miles. In order for a termination to be for "Good Reason," the Participant must (x) provide notice to the Company of the Good Reason condition within 90 days of the initial existence of the condition, (y) give the Company at least 30 days to remedy such condition, and (z) actually terminate the Participant's employment within six months following the initial existence of the condition.
Good Reason
 
2.28 "" means, with respect to an Award, the date on which the Committee makes the determination granting such Award, or such later date as is determined by the Committee at the time it approves the grant. With respect to an Award granted under the automatic grant provisions of Section 12, "Grant Date" means the applicable date of grant specified in Section 12. The Grant Date of an Award shall not be earlier than the date the Award is approved by the Committee.
Grant Date
 
2.29 "" means an Option to purchase Shares that by its terms qualifies as and is intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
Incentive Stock Option
 
2.30 "" means as to any Performance Period, Revenue less appropriate costs and expenses for the type of margin determined by the Committee (for example, but not by way of limitation, gross margin, operating margin or contribution margin).
Margin
 
2.31 "" means as to any Performance Period, the percentage of a market segment with respect to one or more products or services.
Market Share
 
2.32 "" means a Director who is not an employee of the Company or any Affiliate.
Nonemployee Director
 
2.33 "" means an option to purchase Shares that by its terms does not qualify or is not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonqualified Stock Option
 
2.34 "" means as to any Performance Period, the difference between revenue and related costs of products sold and operating expenses, excluding income derived from other sources and before other income deductions.
Operating Profit
 
2.35 "" means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option.
Option
 
2.36 "" means the holder of an outstanding Award.
Participant
 
2.37 "" means the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the Committee (in its discretion) to be applicable to a Participant with respect to an Award. As determined by the Committee, the Performance Goals applicable to an Award shall provide for a targeted level or levels of achievement using one or more of the following measures: (a) Cash Flow, (b) Customer Satisfaction, (c) Earnings Per Share, (d) Margin, (e) Market Share, (f) Operating Profit, (g) Product Development and Quality, (h) Profit, (i) Return on Capital, (j) Return on Equity, (k) Revenue and (l) Total Shareholder Return. Any Performance Goal used may be measured (1) in absolute terms, (2) in combination with another Performance Goal or Goals (for example, but not by way of limitation, as a ratio or matrix), (3) in relative terms (including, but not limited to, as compared to results for other periods of time, and/or against another company, companies or an index or indices), (4) on a per-share or per-capita basis, (5) against the performance of the Company as a whole or a specific business unit(s), business segment(s) or product(s) of the Company, and/or (6) on a pre-tax or after-tax basis. Prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its discretion, will determine whether any significant element(s) or item(s) will be included in or excluded from the calculation of any Performance Goal with respect to any Participants (for example, but not by way of limitation, the effect of mergers and acquisitions). As determined in the discretion of the Committee prior to the Determination Date, achievement of Performance Goals for a particular Award may be calculated in accordance with the Company's financial statements, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or as adjusted for certain costs, expenses, gains and losses to provide non-GAAP measures of operating results.
Performance Goals
 
2.38 "" means any Fiscal Year (or period of four (4) consecutive Fiscal Quarters) or such other period longer than a Fiscal Year, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Performance Period
 
2.39 "" means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9.
Performance Share
 
2.40 "" means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8.
Performance Unit
 
2.41 "" means the Applied Materials, Inc. Employee Stock Incentive Plan, as set forth in this instrument and as hereafter amended from time to time. The Plan formerly was named the Applied Materials, Inc. 1995 Equity Incentive Plan.
Plan
 
2.42 "" means as to any Performance Period, the objective and measurable goals approved by the Committee for the design, creation or manufacture of products, which goals may include (but not by way of limitation) conformance to design or use specifications or requirements not to exceed specified defect levels.
Product Development and Quality
 
2.43 "" means as to any Performance Period, income.
Profit
 
2.44 "" means restricted Shares granted pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award.
Restricted Stock
 
2.45 "" means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 7.
Restricted Stock Award
 
2.46 "" means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10.
Restricted Stock Unit
 
2.47 "" means, in the case of an Employee, the first to occur of: (a) a Termination of Service occurring on or after age sixty-five (65), or (b) a Termination of Service occurring on or after age sixty (60) with at least ten (10) full Years of Service. With respect to a Consultant, no Termination of Service shall be deemed to be on account of "Retirement."
Retirement
 
2.48 "" means as to any Performance Period, Profit divided by invested capital.
Return on Capital
 
2.49 "" means as to any Performance Period, the percentage equal to Profit divided by stockholder's equity.
Return on Equity
 
2.50 "" means as to any Performance Period, net sales.
Revenue
 
2.51 "" means Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act, and any future regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such regulation.
Rule 16b-3
 
2.52 "" means Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act.
Section 16(b)
 
2.53 "" means an individual who, with respect to Shares, is subject to Section 16 of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Section 16 Person
 
2.54 "" means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the regulations and guidance thereunder, as they may be amended or modified from time to time.
Section 409A
 
2.55 "" means the shares of common stock of the Company.
Shares
 
2.56 "" or "" means an Award, granted alone or in connection with a related Option, that pursuant to Section 6 is designated as an SAR.
Stock Appreciation Right
SAR
 
2.57 "" means any corporation in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company as the corporation at the top of the chain, but only if each of the corporations below the Company (other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain) then owns stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain, or if Section 424(f) of the Code is modified after the Effective Date, a "subsidiary corporation" as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary
 
2.58 "" means tax and social insurance liability obligations and requirements in connection with the Awards, including, without limitation, (a) all federal, state, and local taxes (including the Participant's Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) obligation) that are required to be withheld by the Company or the employing Affiliate, (b) the Participant's and, to the extent required by the Company (or Affiliate), the Company's (or Affiliate's) fringe benefit tax liability, if any, associated with the grant, vesting, or exercise of an Award or sale of Shares, and (c) any other Company (or Affiliate) taxes the responsibility for which the Participant has, or has agreed to bear, with respect to such Award (or exercise thereof or issuance of Shares thereunder).
Tax Obligations
 
2.59 "" means (a) in the case of an Employee, a cessation of the employee-employer relationship between the Employee and the Company or an Affiliate for any reason, including, but not by way of limitation, a termination by resignation, discharge, death, Disability, Retirement, or the disaffiliation of an Affiliate, but excluding any such termination where there is a simultaneous reemployment by the Company or an Affiliate; (b) in the case of a Consultant, a cessation of the service relationship between the Consultant and the Company or an Affiliate for any reason, including, but not by way of limitation, a termination by resignation, discharge, death, Disability, or the disaffiliation of an Affiliate, but excluding any such termination where there is a simultaneous re-engagement of the consultant by the Company or an Affiliate; and (c) in the case of a Nonemployee Director, a cessation of the Director's service on the Board for any reason, including, but not by way of limitation, a termination by resignation, death, Disability or non-reelection to the Board. The Committee, in its discretion, may specify in an Award Agreement whether or not a Termination of Service will be deemed to occur when a Participant changes capacities (for example, when an Employee ceases to be such but immediately thereafter becomes a Consultant).
Termination of Service
 
2.60 "" means as to any Performance Period, the total return (change in share price, including treatment of dividends as determined by the Committee) of a Share.
Total Shareholder Return
 
2.61 "" means, in the case of an Employee, the number of full months from the Employee's latest hire date with the Company or an Affiliate to the date in question, divided by twelve (12). The Employee's latest hire date shall be determined after giving effect to the non-401(k) Plan principles of North American Human Resources Policy No. 2-06, Re-Employment of Former Employees/Bridging of Service, as such Policy may be amended or superseded from time to time. With respect to a Nonemployee Director, "Years of Service" means the number of years of continuous service on the Board of Directors.
Years of Service
 
 
3.1 . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall consist of not less than two (2) Directors who shall be appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the pleasure of, the Board of Directors. The Committee shall be comprised solely of Directors who are (a) "outside directors" under Section 162(m), and (b) "non-employee directors" under Rule 16b-3. Until and unless determined otherwise by the Board, the Committee shall be the Human Resources & Compensation Committee of the Board.
The Committee
 
3.2 . It shall be the duty of the Committee to administer the Plan in accordance with the Plan's provisions. The Committee shall have all powers and discretion necessary or appropriate to administer the Plan and to control its operation, including, but not limited to, the power to (a) determine which Employees, Consultants and Directors shall be granted Awards, (b) prescribe the terms and conditions of the Awards, (c) interpret the Plan and the Awards, (d) adopt such procedures and subplans as are necessary or appropriate for the purpose of satisfying applicable foreign laws or for qualifying for favorable tax treatment under applicable foreign laws, (e) adopt
Authority of the Committee
 
rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith, and (f) interpret, amend or revoke any such rules. Notwithstanding the preceding, the Committee shall not implement an Exchange Program without the approval of the holders of a majority of the Shares that are present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at any Annual or Special Meeting of Stockholders of the Company.
 
3.3 . Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan (but subject to the following sentence), the vesting period for an Award shall expire in full no earlier than (a) the third (3rd) annual anniversary of the grant date if the vesting period expires solely as the result of continued employment or service, and (b) the first (1st) annual anniversary of the grant date if expiration of the vesting period is conditioned on achievement of performance objectives and does not expire solely as the result of continued employment or service. The preceding minimum vesting periods shall not apply with respect to Awards to Nonemployee Directors under Section 12, or to an Award if determined by the Committee (in its discretion): (a) due to death, Disability, Retirement, or major capital change, (b) with respect to Options and SARs, or (d) with respect to Awards other than Options and SARs covering, in the aggregate, no more than five percent (5%) of the shares reserved for issuance under the Plan,
Minimum Vesting Periods
 
3.4 . The Committee, in its sole discretion and on such terms and conditions as it may provide, may delegate all or any part of its authority and powers under the Plan to one or more Directors or officers of the Company, except that the Committee may not delegate all or any part of its authority under the Plan with respect to Awards granted to any individual who is subject to Section 16(b). Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may not delegate its authority and powers with respect to such Awards if such delegation would cause the Awards to fail to so qualify. To the extent of any delegation by the Committee, references to the Committee in this Plan and any Award Agreement shall be deemed also to include reference to the applicable delegate(s).
Delegation by the Committee
 
3.5 . All interpretations, determinations and decisions made by the Committee, the Board, and any delegate of the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all persons, and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.
Decisions Binding
 
 
4.1 . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.3, the total number of Shares available issuance under the Plan shall not exceed the sum of (a) 125,000,000, plus (b) the 367,200,000 that were reserved for issuance prior to the Effective Date. Shares granted under the Plan may be either authorized but unissued Shares or treasury Shares. As of January 15, 2012, 73,473,915 Shares remained available for grant under the Plan.
Number of Shares
 
4.2 . If an Award expires without having been exercised in full, or, with respect to Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Units, is forfeited to or repurchased by the Company, the unpurchased Shares (or for Awards other than
Lapsed Awards
 
Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, the forfeited or repurchased Shares) which were subject thereto will become available for future grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated). Upon exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right settled in Shares, the gross number of Shares covered by the portion of the Award so exercised will cease to be available under the Plan. Shares that have been issued under the Plan under any Award will not be returned to the Plan and will not become available for future distribution under the Plan; provided, however, that if unvested Shares of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Units are repurchased by the Company or are forfeited to the Company, such Shares will become available for future grant under the Plan. Shares used to pay the exercise or purchase price of an Award and/or to satisfy the tax withholding obligations related to an Award will not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan. To the extent an Award under the Plan is paid out in cash rather than Shares, such cash payment will not reduce the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or any Award Agreement to the contrary, Shares covered by Awards that are surrendered or cancelled under any Exchange Program will not again be available for grant under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4.2, subject to adjustment provided in Section 4.3, the maximum number of Shares that may be issued upon the exercise of Incentive Stock Options will equal the aggregate Share number stated in Section 4.1, plus, to the extent allowable under Section 422 of the Code, any Shares that become available for issuance under the Plan under this Section 4.2.
 
4.3 . In the event that any dividend (other than regular, ongoing dividends) or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities, or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, or other change in the corporate structure of the Company affecting the Shares such that an adjustment is determined by the Committee (in its sole discretion) to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, adjust the number and class of Shares which may be delivered under the Plan, the number and class of Shares which may be added annually to the Shares reserved under the Plan, the number, class, and price of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, and the numerical limits of Sections 5.1, 6.1, 7.1, 8.1, 9.1, and 10.1. Notwithstanding the preceding, the number of Shares subject to any Award always shall be a whole number.
Adjustments in Awards and Authorized Shares
 
4.4 Grants of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares and Performance Units under the Plan shall count against the numerical limits in Section 4.1 of the Plan as two Shares for every one Share subject thereto. If Shares acquired pursuant to Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares and Performance Units granted on or after the Effective Date are forfeited to the Company and otherwise would return to the Plan pursuant to Section 4.2 of the Plan, two times the number of Shares so forfeited shall become available for issuance. For purposes of clarification, if Shares acquired pursuant to any Awards granted prior to the Effective Date are forfeited to the Company and otherwise would return to the Plan pursuant to Section 4.2 of the Plan, one times the number of Shares so forfeited shall become available for issuance.
Full Value Awards.
 
4.5 In the event of a Change of Control, each outstanding Award will be treated as the Committee (in its discretion) determines, including, without limitation, that each Award be assumed or an equivalent option or right be substituted by the successor corporation or a parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation. The Committee will not be required to treat all Awards similarly in the transaction.
Change of Control.
 
4.5.1 . If, in connection with a Change of Control, the successor corporation (or a parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation) does not assume or substitute outstanding Awards that were granted on or after the Effective Date, then, with respect to such Awards and no later than immediately prior to the Change of Control: (a) each Participant will vest fully in, and have the right to exercise, all of such Awards that are Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, including Shares as to which such Awards would not otherwise be vested or exercisable, (b) all other such Awards that are not Options or SARs will fully vest and any applicable restrictions will lapse, and (c) with respect to Awards with performance-based vesting, all performance goals or other vesting criteria will be deemed achieved at one hundred percent (100%) of target levels and all other terms and conditions met. In addition, if an Option or SAR granted on or after the Effective Date is not assumed or substituted in the event of a Change of Control, the Option or Stock Appreciation Right will terminate upon the Change of Control provided that either (1) before the Change of Control, the Committee notifies the Participant in writing or electronically that the Option or SAR will be exercisable for a period of time determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, or (2) immediately after the Change of Control, the Participant receives a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value (calculated at the time of the Change of Control) of the Shares covered by the Option or SAR, minus the Exercise Price of the Shares covered by the Option or SAR. All Awards that become fully vested pursuant to this Section 4.5.1 will terminate and expire upon the occurrence of the Change of Control.
Non-Assumption of Awards
 
4.5.2 . For the purposes of this Section 4.5, an Award will be considered assumed if, following the Change of Control, the Award confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share subject to the Award immediately prior to the Change of Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the Change of Control by holders of Shares held on the effective date of the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the greatest number of holders of outstanding Shares); provided, however, that if such consideration received in the Change of Control is not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its parent, the Committee may, with the consent of the successor corporation, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise of an Option or SAR or upon the payout of any other Award, for each Share subject to such Award, to be solely common stock of the successor corporation or its parent equal in fair market value to the per share consideration received by holders of Shares in the Change of Control. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4.5 to the contrary, an Award that vests, is earned or paid-out upon the satisfaction of one or more performance goals will not be considered assumed if the Company or its successor modifies any of such performance goals without the Participant's consent; provided, however, a modification to such performance goals only to reflect the successor corporation's post-Change of Control corporate structure will not be deemed to invalidate an otherwise valid Award assumption.
Assumption
 
 
5.1 . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Employees, Directors and Consultants at any time and from time to time as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine the number of Shares subject to each Option, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall be granted Options (and/or SARs) covering more than a total of 4,500,000 Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, during the Fiscal Year in which a Participant first becomes an Employee, he or she may be granted Options (and/or SARs) to purchase up to a total of an additional 4,500,000 Shares. The Committee may grant Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, or a combination thereof.
Grant of Options
 
5.2 . Each Option shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Exercise Price, the expiration date of the Option, the number of Shares covered by the Option, any conditions to exercise the Option, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee, in its discretion, shall determine. The Award Agreement shall also specify whether the Option is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option.
Award Agreement
 
5.3 . Subject to the provisions of this Section 5.3, the Exercise Price for each Option shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Exercise Price
 
5.3.1 . The Exercise Price of each Nonqualified Stock option shall be determined by the Committee in its discretion but shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.
Nonqualified Stock Options
 
5.3.2 . In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the Exercise Price shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date; provided, however, that if on the Grant Date, the Employee (together with persons whose stock ownership is attributed to the Employee pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) owns stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, the Exercise Price shall be not less than one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.
Incentive Stock Options
 
5.3.3 . Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 5.3, in the event that the Company or a Subsidiary consummates a transaction described in Section 424(a) of the Code (e.g., the acquisition of property or stock from an unrelated corporation), persons who become Employees, Nonemployee Directors or Consultants on account of such transaction may be granted Options in substitution for options granted by their former employer. If such substitute Options are granted, the Committee, in its sole discretion and consistent with Section 424(a) of the Code, may determine that such substitute Options shall have an Exercise Price less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the Grant Date.
Substitute Options
 
5.4 .
Expiration of Options
 
5.4.1 . Each Option shall terminate no later than the first to occur of the following events:
Expiration Dates
 
(a) The date for termination of the Option set forth in the Award Agreement; or
 
(b) The expiration of seven (7) years from the Grant Date.
 
5.4.2 . Notwithstanding Section 5.4.1, if a Participant dies prior to the expiration of his or her Options, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide that his or her Options shall be exercisable for up to three (3) years after the date of death. With respect to extensions that were not included in the original terms of the Option but were provided by the Committee after the Grant Date, if at the time of any such extension, the Exercise Price of the Option is less than the Fair Market Value of a Share, the extension shall, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, be limited to the earlier of (a) the maximum term of the Option as set by its original terms, or (b) ten (10) years from the Grant Date.
Death of Participant
 
5.4.3 . Subject to the seven (7) and ten (10)-year limits of Sections 5.4.1 and 5.4.2, the Committee, in its sole discretion, (a) shall provide in each Award Agreement when each Option expires and becomes unexercisable, and (b) may, after an Option is granted, extend the maximum term of the Option (subject to Section 5.8.4 regarding Incentive Stock Options). With respect to the Committee's authority in Section 5.4.3(b), if, at the time of any such extension, the Exercise Price of the Option is less than the Fair Market Value of a Share, the extension shall, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, be limited to the earlier of (1) the maximum term of the Option as set by its originals terms, or (2) ten (10) years from the Grant Date. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, any extension of the term of an Option pursuant to this Section 5.4.3 shall comply with Section 409A to the extent applicable.
Committee Discretion
 
5.5 . Options granted under the Plan shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion. An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share. After an Option is granted, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may accelerate the exercisability of the Option.
Exercisability of Options
 
5.6 . In order to exercise an Option, the Participant shall give notice in the form specified by the Company and follow such procedures as the Company (or its designee) may specify from time to time. Exercise of an Option also requires that the Participant make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for full payment of the Exercise Price for the Shares. All exercise notices shall be given in the form and manner specified by the Company from time to time.
Payment
 
The Exercise Price shall be payable to the Company in full in cash or its equivalent. The Committee, in its sole discretion, also may permit exercise (a) by tendering previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the total Exercise Price, or (b) by any other means which the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines to both provide legal consideration for the Shares, and to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. As soon as practicable after receipt of a notification of exercise satisfactory to the Company and full payment for the Shares purchased, the Company shall deliver to the Participant (or the Participant's
 
designated broker), Share certificates (which may be in book entry form) representing such Shares. Until the Shares are issued (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder will exist with respect to the Shares subject to an Option, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. The Company will issue (or cause to be issued) such Shares promptly after the Option is exercised. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the Shares are issued, except as provided in Section 4.3 of the Plan.
 
5.7 . The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option as it may deem advisable, including, but not limited to, restrictions related to applicable federal securities laws, the requirements of any national securities exchange or system upon which Shares are then listed or traded, or any blue sky or state securities laws.
Restrictions on Share Transferability
 
5.8 .
Certain Additional Provisions for Incentive Stock Options
 
5.8.1 . The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined on the Grant Date(s)) of the Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by any Employee during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and its Subsidiaries) shall not exceed $100,000.
Exercisability
 
5.8.2 . No Incentive Stock Option may be exercised more than three (3) months after the Participant's Termination of Service for any reason other than Disability or death, unless (a) the Participant dies during such three-month period, and/or (b) the Award Agreement or the Committee permits later exercise (in which case the Option instead may be deemed to be a Nonqualified Stock Option). No Incentive Stock Option may be exercised more than one (1) year after the Participant's Termination of Service on account of Disability, unless (a) the Participant dies during such one-year period, and/or (b) the Award Agreement or the Committee permit later exercise (in which case the option instead may be deemed to be a Nonqualified Stock Option).
Termination of Service
 
5.8.3 . Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to persons who are employees of the Company or a Subsidiary on the Grant Date.
Employees Only
 
5.8.4 . No Incentive Stock Option may be exercised after the expiration of ten (10) years from the Grant Date; provided, however, that if the Option is granted to an Employee who, together with persons whose stock ownership is attributed to the Employee pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code, owns stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of the stock of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, the Option may not be exercised after the expiration of five (5) years from the Grant Date.
Expiration
 
5.8.5 . For purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no leave of absence may exceed three (3) months, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by statute or contract. If reemployment upon expiration of a leave of absence approved by the Company is not so guaranteed, then six (6) months following the first (1st) day of such leave, any Incentive Stock Option held by the Participant will cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and will be treated for tax purposes as a Nonqualified Stock Option.
Leave of Absence
 
 
6.1 . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, a SAR may be granted to Employees, Directors and Consultants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.
Grant of SARs
 
6.1.1 . The Committee shall have complete discretion to determine the number of SARs granted to any Participant, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall be granted SARs (and/or Options) covering more than a total of 4,500,000 Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, during the Fiscal Year in which a Participant first becomes an Employee, he or she may be granted SARs (and/or Options) covering up to a total of an additional 4,500,000 Shares.
Number of Shares
 
6.1.2 . The Committee, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have complete discretion to determine the terms and conditions of SARs granted under the Plan. The Exercise Price of each SAR shall be determined by the Committee in its discretion but shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, SARs may be granted with a per Share Exercise Price of less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per Share on the Grant Date pursuant to the rules of Section 5.3.3, which also shall apply to SARs.
Exercise Price and Other Terms
 
6.2 . Each SAR grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Exercise Price, the term of the SAR, the conditions of exercise, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
SAR Agreement
 
6.3 An SAR granted under the Plan shall expire upon the date determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the rules of Section 5.4 also shall apply to SARs.
Expiration of SARs.
 
6.4 Upon exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying:
Payment of SAR Amount.
 
(a) The difference between the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise over the Exercise Price; times
 
(b) The number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised. At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, in Shares of equivalent value, or in some combination thereof.
 
No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the Shares are issued under the SAR, except as provided in Section 4.3 of the Plan.
 
 
7.1 . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock to Employees, Directors and Consultants as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine. The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine the number of Shares to be granted to each Participant, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall receive more than a total of 1,500,000 Shares of Restricted Stock (and/or Performance Shares or Restricted Stock Units). Notwithstanding the foregoing, during the Fiscal Year in which a Participant first becomes an Employee, he or she may be granted up to a total of an additional 1,500,000 Shares of Restricted Stock (and/or Performance Shares or Restricted Stock Units).
Grant of Restricted Stock Awards
 
7.2 . Each Restricted Stock Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify any vesting conditions, the number of Shares granted, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine. Unless the Committee (or its designee(s)) determine otherwise, Shares of Restricted Stock shall be held by the Company as escrow agent until the restrictions on such Shares have lapsed.
Restricted Stock Award Agreement
 
7.3 . Except as provided in this Section 7 or Section 13.8, Shares of Restricted Stock may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable vesting period.
Transferability
 
7.4 . The Committee, in its sole discretion, may impose such other restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock as it may deem advisable or appropriate, in accordance with this Section 7.4.
Other Restrictions
 
7.4.1 . The Committee may set restrictions based upon the Participant's continued employment or service with the Company and its Affiliates, the achievement of specific performance objectives (Company-wide, departmental, or individual), applicable federal or state securities laws, or any other basis determined by the Committee in its discretion (for example, but not by way of limitation, continuous service as an Employee, Director or Consultant).
General Restrictions
 
7.4.2 . For purposes of qualifying Restricted Stock Awards as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee, in its discretion, may set restrictions based upon the achievement of Performance Goals. The Performance Goals shall be set by the Committee on or before the Determination Date. In granting Restricted Stock Awards which are intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be necessary or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Restricted Stock Award under Section 162(m) of the Code (e.g., in determining the Performance Goals).
Section 162(m) Performance Restrictions
 
7.4.3 . The Committee, in its discretion, may require that a legend be placed on the certificates representing Restricted Stock to give appropriate notice of the applicable restrictions.
Legend on Certificates
 
7.5 . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 7, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock Award shall be released from escrow as soon as practicable after the last day of the vesting period. The Committee, in its discretion, may accelerate the time at which any restrictions shall lapse or be removed. After the restrictions have lapsed, the Participant shall be entitled to have any legend(s) under Section 7.4.3 removed from his or her Share certificate(s), and the Shares shall be freely transferable by the Participant. The Committee (in its discretion) may establish procedures regarding the release of Shares from escrow and the removal of legends, as necessary or appropriate to minimize administrative burdens on the Company
Removal of Restrictions
 
7.6 . During the vesting period, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Voting Rights
 
7.7 . During the vesting period, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock shall be entitled to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to such Shares unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement. Any such dividends or distribution shall be subject to the same restrictions on transferability and forfeitability as the Shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid, unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement.
Dividends and Other Distributions
 
7.8 . On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, the Restricted Stock for which restrictions have not lapsed shall be forfeited to the Company and, except as otherwise determined by the Committee and subject to Section 4.2, again shall become available for grant under the Plan.
Return of Restricted Stock to Company
 
 
8.1 . Performance Units may be granted to Employees, Directors and Consultants at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of Performance Units granted to each Participant provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall receive Performance Units having an initial value greater than $15,000,000.
Grant of Performance Units
 
8.2 . Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee on or before the Grant Date.
Value of Performance Units
 
8.3 . The Committee, in its discretion, shall set performance objectives or other vesting criteria which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number or value of Performance Units that will be paid out to the Participants. Each Award of Performance Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify any applicable Performance Period, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Performance Objectives and Other Terms
 
8.3.1 . The Committee may set performance objectives or vesting criteria based upon the achievement of Company-wide, departmental, or individual goals, applicable federal or state securities laws, or any other basis determined by the Committee in its discretion (for example, but not by way of limitation, continuous service as an Employee, Director or Consultant).
General Performance Objectives or Vesting Criteria
 
8.3.2 . For purposes of qualifying grants of Performance Units as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee, in its discretion, may determine that the performance objectives applicable to Performance Units shall be based on the achievement of Performance Goals. The Performance Goals shall be set by the Committee on or before the Determination Date. In granting Performance Units that are intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be necessary or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Performance Units under Section 162(m) of the Code (e.g., in determining the Performance Goals).
Section 162(m) Performance Objectives
 
8.4 . After the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Performance Units shall be entitled to receive a payout of the number of Performance Units earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance objectives have been achieved. After the grant of a Performance Unit, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may reduce or waive any performance objectives for such Performance Unit and may accelerate the time at which any restrictions will lapse or be removed.
Earning of Performance Units
 
8.5 . Payment of earned Performance Units shall be made as soon as practicable after the expiration of the applicable Performance Period (subject to any deferral permitted under Section 13.1), or as otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement or as required by Applicable Laws. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units in the form of cash, in Shares (which have an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the value of the earned Performance Units at the close of the applicable Performance Period) or in a combination thereof.
Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units
 
8.6 . On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, all unearned or unvested Performance Units shall be forfeited to the Company, and, except as otherwise determined by the Committee and subject to Section 4.2, again shall be available for grant under the Plan.
Cancellation of Performance Units
 
 
9.1 . Performance Shares may be granted to Employees, Directors and Consultants at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of Performance Shares granted to each Participant, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall be granted more than a total of 1,500,000 Performance Shares (and/or Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units). Notwithstanding the foregoing, during the Fiscal Year in which a Participant first becomes an Employee, he or she may be granted up to a total of an additional 1,500,000 Performance Shares (and/or Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units).
Grant of Performance Shares
 
9.2 Each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.
Value of Performance Shares.
 
9.3 . Each Award of Performance Shares shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify any vesting conditions, the number of Performance Shares granted, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Performance Share Agreement
 
9.4 . The Committee, in its discretion, shall set performance objectives or other vesting criteria which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number or value of Performance Shares that will be paid out to the Participants. Each Award of Performance Shares shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Performance Period, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Performance Objectives and Other Terms
 
9.4.1 . The Committee may set performance objectives or vesting criteria based upon the achievement of Company-wide, departmental, or individual goals, applicable federal or state securities laws, or any other basis determined by the Committee in its discretion (for example, but not by way of limitation, continuous service as an Employee, Director or Consultant).
General Performance Objectives or Vesting Criteria
 
9.4.2 . For purposes of qualifying grants of Performance Shares as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee, in its discretion, may determine that any performance objectives applicable to Performance Shares shall be based on the achievement of Performance Goals. In that case, the Performance Goals shall be set by the Committee on or before the Determination Date. In granting Performance Shares that are intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be necessary or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Performance Shares under Section 162(m) of the Code (e.g., in determining the Performance Goals).
Section 162(m) Performance Objectives
 
9.5 . After the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Performance Shares shall be entitled to receive a payout of the number of Performance Shares earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance objectives have been achieved. After the grant of a Performance Share, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may reduce or waive any performance objectives for such Performance Share and may accelerate the time at which any restrictions will lapse or be removed.
Earning of Performance Shares
 
9.6 . Payment of vested Performance Shares shall be made as soon as practicable after the expiration of the applicable Performance Period (subject to any deferral permitted under Section 13.1), or as otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement or as required by Applicable Laws. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Shares in the form of cash, in Shares or in a combination thereof.
Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Shares
 
9.7 On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, all unvested Performance Shares shall be forfeited to the Company, and except as otherwise determined by the Committee and subject to Section 4.2, again shall be available for grant under the Plan.
Cancellation of Performance Shares.
 
 
10.1 . Restricted Stock Units may be granted to Employees, Directors and Consultants at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of Restricted Stock Units granted to each Participant, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall be granted more than a total of 1,500,000 Restricted Stock Units (and/or Shares of Restricted Stock or Performance Shares). Notwithstanding the foregoing, during the Fiscal Year in which a Participant first becomes an Employee, he or she may be granted up to a total of an additional 1,500,000 Restricted Stock Units (and/or Shares of Restricted Stock or Performance Shares).
Grant of Restricted Stock Units
 
10.2 . Each Restricted Stock Unit shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.
Value of Restricted Stock Units
 
10.3 . Each Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify any vesting conditions, the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
 
10.4 . The Committee, in its discretion, shall set performance objectives or other vesting criteria which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number or value of Restricted Stock Units that will be paid out to the Participants. Each Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Performance Period, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Vesting and Other Terms
 
10.4.1 . The Committee may set performance objectives or vesting criteria based upon the achievement of Company-wide, departmental, or individual goals, applicable federal or state securities laws, or any other basis determined by the Committee in its discretion (for example, but not by way of limitation, continuous service as an Employee, Director or Consultant).
General Performance Objectives or Vesting Criteria
 
10.4.2 . For purposes of qualifying grants of Restricted Stock Units as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee, in its discretion, may determine that any performance objectives applicable to Restricted Stock Units shall be based on the achievement of Performance Goals. In that case, the Performance
Section 162(m) Performance Objectives
 
Goals shall be set by the Committee on or before the Determination Date. In granting Restricted Stock Units that are intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be necessary or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Restricted Stock Units under Section 162(m) of the Code (e.g., in determining the Performance Goals).
 
10.5 . After the applicable vesting period has ended, the holder of Restricted Stock Units shall be entitled to receive a payout of the number of Restricted Stock Units earned by the Participant over the vesting period. After the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may reduce or waive any vesting condition that must be met to receive a payout for such Restricted Stock Unit and may accelerate the time at which any restrictions will lapse or be removed.
Earning of Restricted Stock Units
 
10.6 . Payment of vested Restricted Stock Units shall be made as soon as practicable after the date(s) set forth in the Award Agreement (subject to any deferral permitted under Section 13.1) or as otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement or as required by Applicable Laws. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay Restricted Stock Units in the form of cash, in Shares or in a combination thereof.
Form and Timing of Payment of Restricted Stock Units
 
10.7 . On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, all unearned Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited to the Company, and except as otherwise determined by the Committee and subject to Section 4.2, again shall be available for grant under the Plan.
Cancellation of Restricted Stock Units
 
 
11.1 . If the Committee, in its discretion, decides to grant an Award intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the provisions of this Section 11 will control over any contrary provision in the Plan. The Committee, in its discretion, also may grant Awards that are not intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
General
 
11.2 . The granting and/or vesting of Awards of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares and Performance Units and other incentives under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be made subject to the achievement of one or more Performance Goals.
Performance Goals
 
11.3 . To the extent necessary to comply with the "performance-based compensation" provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code, with respect to any Award granted subject to Performance Goals and intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under such section, on or before the Determination Date (i.e., within the first twenty-five percent (25%) of the Performance Period, but in no event more than ninety (90) days following the commencement of any Performance Period or such other time as may be required or permitted by Section 162(m) of the Code), the Committee will, in writing, (i) designate one or more Participants to whom an Award will be made, (ii) determine the Performance Period, (iii) establish the Performance Goals and amounts that may be earned for the Performance Period, and (iv) determine any other terms and conditions applicable to the Award(s).
Procedures
 
11.4 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, any Award that is granted to a Participant and is intended to constitute qualified "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code will be subject to any additional limitations set forth in the Code (including any amendment to Section 162(m)) or any regulations and ruling issued thereunder that are requirements for qualification as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, and the Plan will be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements.
Additional Limitations
 
11.5 Following the completion of each Performance Period, the Committee will certify in writing whether the applicable Performance Goals have been achieved for such Performance Period. A Participant will be eligible to receive payment pursuant to an Award intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code for a Performance Period only if the Performance Goals for such period are achieved. In determining the amounts earned by a Participant pursuant to an Award intended to qualified as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee will have the right to (a) reduce or eliminate (but not to increase) the amount payable at a given level of performance to take into account additional factors that the Committee may deem relevant to the assessment of individual or corporate performance for the Performance Period, (b) determine what actual Award, if any, will be paid in the event of a termination of employment as the result of a Participant's death or disability or upon a Change of Control or in the event of a termination of employment following a Change of Control prior to the end of the Performance Period, and (c) determine what actual Award, if any, will be paid in the event of a termination of employment other than as the result of a Participant's death or Disability prior to a Change of Control and prior to the end of the Performance Period to the extent an actual Award would have otherwise been achieved had the Participant remained employed through the end of the Performance Period.
Determination of Amounts Earned.
 
 
12.1 . As determined in the discretion of the Committee, Nonemployee Directors will be eligible to be granted all types of Awards under this Plan, including discretionary Awards not covered under this Section 12. All grants of Restricted Stock Units to Nonemployee Directors pursuant to this Section 12 will be automatic and nondiscretionary, except as otherwise provided herein, and will be made in accordance with the following provisions:
General
 
12.2
Awards.
 
12.2.1 . Each Nonemployee Director who first becomes a Nonemployee Director on or after the Effective Date, automatically shall receive, as of the date that the individual first is appointed or elected as a Nonemployee Director, an Award of Restricted Stock Units (the ""). The number of Restricted Stock Units subject to the Initial Award will be equal to (a) the value obtained by multiplying (x) $200,000 times (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the actual number of days between the date of the Nonemployee Director's appointment or
Initial Awards
Initial Award
 
election and the scheduled date of the next following Annual Meeting, and the denominator of which is 365, which such resulting value divided by (b) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date, rounded down to the nearest whole Share. The Nonemployee Director shall not receive an Initial Award if he or she is first appointed or elected as a Non employee Director on the date of an Annual Meeting and instead shall receive an Ongoing Award pursuant to Section 12.2.2 on that date.
 
12.2.2 .On the date of each Annual Meeting beginning in 2012, but after any stockholder votes taken on such date, each Nonemployee Director who is appointed or elected as a Nonemployee Director on the date of the Annual Meeting automatically shall receive, as of such date, an Award of the number of Restricted Stock Units equal to $200,000 divided by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date, rounded down to the nearest whole Performance Share (the ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Nonemployee Director who is required to tender a resignation following such Annual Meeting in accordance with the Company's majority voting policy for election of directors shall not receive an Ongoing Award, unless the Board determines not to accept his or her resignation in accordance with the Company's policy, in which case such Nonemployee Director automatically shall receive the Ongoing Award on the date the Board makes a determination not to accept such resignation.
Ongoing Awards
Ongoing Award
 
12.3 .
Terms of Initial Award and Ongoing Awards
 
12.3.1 . Each Award of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Section 12 shall be evidenced by a written Award Agreement (which may be in electronic form) between the Participant and the Company.
Award Agreement
 
12.3.2 . Each Restricted Stock Unit shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.
Value of Restricted Stock Units
 
12.3.3 . Subject to the other provisions of Section 12.3, each Initial Award and Ongoing Award shall be earned and paid out as to one hundred percent (100%) of the Shares subject to the Initial Award or Ongoing Award, as applicable, on the next following March 1 (or, if earlier, on the date immediately before the date of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders that next follows the Grant Date). Notwithstanding the preceding, once a Participant ceases to be a Director, his or her Restricted Stock Units which are not then earned shall never be earned or paid out and shall be immediately forfeited, except to the extent provided in Section 12.3.4 and Section 12.3.5.
Vesting and Other Terms
 
12.3.4 . If a Participant has a Termination of Service due to Disability prior to the vesting of Restricted Stock Units, then one hundred percent (100%) of the Restricted Stock Units shall immediately become vested and payable, subject to the terms and conditions of any deferral pursuant to Section 12.3.8.
Disability of Participant
 
12.3.5 . If a Participant dies while serving as a Director prior to the vesting of his or her Restricted Stock Units, then one hundred percent (100%) of the Restricted Stock Units shall immediately become vested and payable, subject to the terms and conditions of any deferral pursuant to Section 12.3.8.
Death of Participant
 
12.3.6 . After the applicable vesting period has ended, the holder of Restricted Stock Units shall be entitled to receive a payout of the number of Restricted Stock Units earned by the Participant over the vesting period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding vesting provisions have been achieved.
Earning of Restricted Stock Units
 
12.3.7 . Payment of earned Restricted Stock Units shall be made as soon as practicable after the expiration of the applicable vesting period. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Restricted Stock Units in the form of cash, in Shares (which have an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the value of the earned Restricted Stock Units at the close of the applicable vesting period) or in a combination thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide a Nonemployee Director with the opportunity to defer the receipt of earned Restricted Stock Units that would otherwise be delivered to such Nonemployee Director under this Section 12. Any such deferral shall be subject to such rules, conditions and procedures as shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, which rules, conditions and procedures shall comply with the requirements of Section 409A, unless otherwise specifically determined by the Committee.
Form and Timing of Payment of Restricted Stock Units
 
12.3.8 . On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, all unearned or unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited to the Company, and except as otherwise determined by the Committee and subject to Section 4.2, again shall be available for grant under the Plan.
Cancellation of Restricted Stock Units
 
12.3.9 . All provisions of the Plan not inconsistent with this Section 12 shall apply to Restricted Stock Units granted to Nonemployee Directors, including but not limited to the provisions of Section 10.
Other Terms
 
12.4 . The Committee, in its sole discretion, at any time may change the number of Restricted Stock Units to be granted (after the date of the amendment) as the Initial Award and Ongoing Awards.
Amendments
 
12.5 . Pursuant to such procedures as the Committee (in its discretion) may adopt from time to time, each Nonemployee Director may elect to forego receipt of all or a portion of the annual retainer, committee fees and meeting fees otherwise due to the Nonemployee Director in exchange for Shares or Awards granted under the Plan. The number of Shares (or covered by Awards) received by any Nonemployee Director shall equal the amount of foregone compensation divided by the Fair Market Value of a Share (or of the Award) on the date that the compensation otherwise would have been paid to the Nonemployee Director, rounded down to the nearest whole number of Shares. The procedures adopted by the Committee for elections under this Section 12.5 shall be designed to ensure that any such election by a Nonemployee Director will not disqualify him or her as a "non-employee director" under Rule 16b-3. Unless otherwise expressly determined by the Committee, the elections permitted under this Section 12.5 shall comply with Section 409A.
Elections by Nonemployee Directors
 
 
13.1 . The Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit a Participant to defer receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant under an Award. Any such deferral elections shall be subject to such rules and procedures as shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion and, unless otherwise expressly determined by the Committee, shall comply with the requirements of Section 409A.
Deferrals
 
13.2 . Awards will be designed and operated in such a manner that they are either exempt from the application of, or comply with, the requirements of Section 409A such that the grant, payment, settlement or deferral will not be subject to the additional tax or interest applicable under Section 409A, except as otherwise determined in the sole discretion of the Committee. The Plan and each Award Agreement under the Plan is intended to meet the requirements of Section 409A and will be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent, including with respect to any ambiguities or ambiguous terms, except as otherwise determined in the sole discretion of the Committee. To the extent that an Award or payment, or the settlement or deferral thereof, is subject to Section 409A the Award will be granted, paid, settled or deferred in a manner that will meet the requirements of Section 409A, such that the grant, payment, settlement or deferral will not be subject to the additional tax or interest applicable under Section 409A. Each payment or benefit under this Plan and under each Award Agreement is intended to constitute a separate payment for purposes of Section 1.409A-2(b)(2) of the Treasury Regulations.
Compliance with Section 409A
 
13.3 . Nothing in the Plan or any Award shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate any Participant's employment or service at any time, with or without cause. For purposes of the Plan, transfer of employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of its Affiliates (or between Affiliates) shall not be deemed a Termination of Service. Employment with the Company and its Affiliates is on an at-will basis only.
No Effect on Employment or Service
 
13.4 . No Employee, Director or Consultant shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
Participation
 
13.5 . Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (a) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any Award Agreement, and (b) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Indemnification
 
13.6 . All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company.
Successors
 
13.7 . If permitted by the Committee, a Participant under the Plan may name a beneficiary or beneficiaries to whom any vested but unpaid Award shall be paid in the event of the Participant's death. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the Participant and shall be effective only if given in a form and manner acceptable to the Committee. In the absence of any such designation, any vested benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's estate and, subject to the terms of the Plan and of the applicable Award Agreement, any unexercised vested Award may be exercised by the administrator or executor of the Participant's estate.
Beneficiary Designations
 
13.8 . No Award granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will, by the laws of descent and distribution, or to the limited extent provided in Section 13.7. All rights with respect to an Award granted to a Participant shall be available during his or her lifetime only to the Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may, if the Committee (in its discretion) so permits, transfer an Award to an individual or entity other than the Company for estate planning or charitable purposes. Any such transfer shall be made as a gift (i.e., without consideration) and in accordance with such procedures as the Committee may specify from time to time.
Limited Transferability of Awards
 
13.9 . Except to the limited extent provided in Sections 7.6 and 7.7, no Participant (nor any beneficiary) shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company with respect to any Shares issuable pursuant to an Award (or exercise thereof), unless and until certificates representing such Shares (which may be in book entry form) shall have been issued, recorded on the records of the Company or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to the Participant (or beneficiary).
No Rights as Stockholder
 
13.10 . If, within 12 months after a Change of Control, a Participant's employment is terminated by the Company without Cause, or the Participant voluntary terminates his or her employment with Good Reason, the vesting of each outstanding Award held by such Participant that was both granted prior to the Change of Control and on or after the Effective Date shall be accelerated as described in Section 4.5.1. If a Participant who is a Nonemployee Director ceases to be such as of the date of a Change of Control (and does not become a member of the board of directors of the successor corporation, or a parent of the successor corporation), the vesting of each outstanding Award then held by the Participant that was granted on or after the Effective Date shall be accelerated as described in Section 4.5.1, as if the Award was not assumed or substituted for in the Change of Control. The accelerated vesting provided by this Section 13.10 shall not apply to an Award if: (a) the applicable Award Agreement specifically provides that the provisions of this Section 13.10 shall not apply to the Award, or (b) the Participant's employment or service on the Board is terminated due to the Participant's death or Disability.
Vesting of Awards following Change of Control
 
 
14.1 . The Board, in its sole discretion, may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan, or any part thereof, at any time and for any reason. The Company will obtain stockholder approval of any Plan amendment to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with applicable laws. In addition, an amendment will be subject to stockholder approval if the Committee or the Board, in their sole discretion, deems such amendment to be a material amendment, except with respect to such an amendment that will impact Awards covering, in the aggregate, no more than five percent (5%) of the shares reserved for issuance under the Plan. The following amendments shall be deemed material amendments for purposes of the preceding sentence: (a) material increases to the benefits accrued to Participants under the Plan; (b) increases to the number of securities that may be issued under the Plan; (c) material modifications to the requirements for participation in the Plan, and (d) the addition of a new provision allowing the Committee to lapse or waive restrictions at its discretion. The amendment, suspension, or termination of the Plan shall not, without the consent of the Participant, alter or impair any rights or obligations under any Award theretofore granted to such Participant. No Award may be granted during any period of suspension or after termination of the Plan. Termination of the Plan will not affect the Committee's ability to exercise the powers granted to it hereunder with respect to Awards granted under the Plan prior to the date of such termination.
Amendment, Suspension, or Termination
 
14.2 . The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date, and subject to Section 14.1 (regarding the Board's right to amend or terminate the Plan), shall remain in effect thereafter. However, without further stockholder approval, no Incentive Stock Option may be granted under the Plan after January 19, 2022.
Duration of the Plan
 
 
15.1 . Prior to the delivery of any Shares or cash pursuant to an Award (or exercise thereof), or at such earlier time as the Tax Obligations are due, the Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy all Tax Obligations.
Withholding Requirements
 
15.2 . The Committee, in its sole discretion and pursuant to such procedures as it may specify from time to time, may designate the method or methods by which a Participant may satisfy such Tax Obligations. As determined by the Committee in its discretion from time to time, these methods may include one or more of the following: (a) paying cash, (b) electing to have the Company withhold otherwise deliverable cash or Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount required to be withheld, (c) delivering to the Company already-owned Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld or remitted, provided the delivery of such Shares will not result in any adverse accounting consequences as the Committee determines in its sole discretion, (d) selling a sufficient number of Shares otherwise deliverable to the Participant through such means as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion (whether through a broker or otherwise) equal to the Tax Obligations required to be withheld, (e) retaining from salary or other amounts payable to the Participant cash having a
Withholding Arrangements
 
sufficient value to satisfy the Tax Obligations, or (f) any other means which the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines to both comply with Applicable Laws, and to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. The amount of Tax Obligations will be deemed to include any amount that the Committee agrees may be withheld at the time the election is made, not to exceed the amount determined by using the maximum federal, state or local marginal income tax rates applicable to the Participant or the Company, as applicable, with respect to the Award on the date that the amount of tax or social insurance liability to be withheld or remitted is to be determined. The Fair Market Value of the Shares to be withheld or delivered shall be determined as of the date that the Tax Obligations are required to be withheld.
 
 
16.1 . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
Gender and Number
 
16.2 . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
 
16.3 . Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise or vesting of an Award unless the exercise or vesting of such Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares shall comply with Applicable Laws and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Requirements of Law
 
16.4 . With respect to Section 16 Persons, transactions under this Plan are intended to qualify for the exemption provided by Rule 16b-3. To the extent any provision of the Plan, Award Agreement or action by the Committee fails to so comply, it shall be deemed null and void, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable or appropriate by the Committee.
Securities Law Compliance
 
16.5 . As a condition to the exercise of an Award, the Company may require the person exercising such Award to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required.
Investment Representations
 
16.6 . The Company will not be required to issue any Shares, cash or other property under the Plan unless all the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the admission of the Shares or other property to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock or property then is listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification or rule compliance of the Shares under any U.S. state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the stock exchange on which Shares of the same class are then listed, or any other governmental regulatory body, as counsel to the Company, in its absolute discretion, deems necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from
Inability to Obtain Authority
 
any U.S. federal, state or other governmental agency, which counsel to the Company, in its absolute discretion, determines to be necessary or advisable; and (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the Grant Date, vesting and/or exercise as the Company may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience. If the Committee determines, in its absolute discretion, that one or more of the preceding conditions will not be satisfied, the Company automatically will be relieved of any liability with respect to the failure to issue the Shares, cash or other property as to which such requisite authority will not have been obtained.
 
16.7 . The Plan and all Award Agreements shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of California (with the exception of its conflict of laws provisions).
Governing Law
 
16.8 . Captions are provided herein for convenience only, and shall not serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan.
Captions
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
1.1 . Applied Materials, Inc. having established the Applied Materials, Inc. Senior Executive Bonus Plan (the "Plan") effective as of September 23, 1994, and having subsequently amended and restated the Plan, hereby amends and restates the Plan effective as of March 6, 2012. The Plan is intended to increase stockholder value and the success of the Company by motivating key executives (a) to perform to the best of their abilities, and (b) to achieve the Company's objectives. The Plan's goals are to be achieved by providing such executives with incentive awards based on the achievement of goals relating to the performance of the Company and its individual business units. The Plan is intended to permit the payment of bonuses that qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m).
Purpose
 
1.2 . The Plan is effective as of March 6, 2012 (the "Effective Date"), subject to the approval of a majority of the shares of the Company's common stock that are present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Effective Date
 
 
The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:
 
2.1 "" means as to any Performance Period, the actual amount (if any) payable to a Participant for the Performance Period. Each Actual Award is determined by the Payout Formula for the Performance Period, subject to the Committee's authority under Section 3.5 to reduce the award otherwise determined by the Payout Formula.
Actual Award
 
2.2 "" means any corporation or other entity (including, but not limited to, partnerships and joint ventures) controlled by the Company.
Affiliate
 
2.3 "" means as to any Performance Period, 100% of the Participant's annualized salary rate on the last day of the Performance Period. Such Base Salary shall be before both (a) deductions for taxes or benefits, and (b) deferrals of compensation pursuant to Company sponsored plans.
Base Salary
 
2.4 "" means the Company's Board of Directors.
Board
 
2.5 "" means as to any Performance Period, cash generated from business activities.
Cash Flow
 
2.6 "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the Code or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
Code
 
2.7 "" means the committee appointed by the Board (pursuant to Section 5.1) to administer the Plan. The Committee shall consist of no fewer than two (2) members of the Board.
Committee
 
2.8 "" means Applied Materials, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
 
2.9 "" means as to any Performance Period, the objective and measurable goals approved by the Committee that relate to fulfillment of customer expectations and/or attainment of customer ratings.
Customer Satisfaction
 
2.10 "" means the latest possible date that will not jeopardize a Target Award or Actual Award's qualification as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Determination Date
 
2.11 "" means a permanent and total disability determined in accordance with standards adopted by the Committee from time to time.
Disability
 
2.12 "" means as to any Performance Period, the Company's Profit, divided by a weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive common equivalent shares deemed outstanding for the Performance Period.
Earnings Per Share
 
2.13 "" means a fiscal quarter within a Fiscal Year of the Company.
Fiscal Quarter
 
2.14 "" means the fiscal year of the Company.
Fiscal Year
 
2.15 "" means a Participant's deliberate engagement in any one or more of the following: (a) fraud, misappropriation, embezzlement or any other act or acts of similar gravity resulting or intended to result directly or indirectly in substantial personal enrichment to the Participant at the expense of the Company; (b) a material violation of a federal, state or local law or regulation applicable to the Company's business that has a significant negative effect on the Company's financial results; or (c) a material breach of the Participant's fiduciary duty owed to the Company that has a significant negative effect on the Company's financial results; provided, however, that a Participant's exercise of judgment or actions (or abstention from action), and/or decision-making will not constitute Intentional Misconduct if such judgment, action (or abstention from action) and/or decision is, in the good faith determination of the Board, reasonable based on the facts and circumstances known to the Participant at the time of such judgment, action (or abstention from action) and/or decision; and such judgment, action (or abstention from action) and/or decision is in an area or situation in which (i) discretion must be exercised by the Participant or (ii) differing views or opinions may apply.
Intentional Misconduct
 
2.16 "" means as to any Performance Period, Revenue less appropriate costs and expenses for the type of margin determined by the Committee (for example, but not by way of limitation, gross margin, operating margin or contribution margin).
Margin
 
2.17 "" means as to any Performance Period, the percentage of a market segment with respect to one or more products or services.
Market Share
 
2.18 "" means as to any Participant for any Fiscal Year, $5 million. The Maximum Award is the maximum amount which may be paid to a Participant for or in any Fiscal Year.
Maximum Award
 
2.19 "" means as to any Performance Period, the difference between revenue and related costs of products sold and operating expenses, excluding income derived from other sources and before other income deductions.
Operating Profit
 
2.20 "" means as to any Performance Period, an officer of the Company or of an Affiliate who has been selected by the Committee for participation in the Plan for that Performance Period.
Participant
 
2.21 "" means as to any Performance Period, the formula or payout matrix established by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.4 in order to determine the Actual Awards, if any, to be paid to Participants. The formula or matrix may differ from Participant to Participant.
Payout Formula
 
2.22 "" means the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the Committee, in its discretion, to be applicable to a Participant for a Performance Period. As determined by the Committee, the Performance Goals applicable to each Participant shall provide for a targeted level or levels of achievement using one or more of the following measures: (a) Cash Flow, (b) Customer Satisfaction, (c) Earnings Per Share, (d) Margin, (e) Market Share, (f) Operating Profit, (g) Product Development and Quality, (h) Profit, (i) Return on Capital, (j) Return on Equity, (k) Revenue, and (l) Total Shareholder Return. Any Performance Goal used may be measured (1) in absolute terms, (2) in combination with another Performance Goal or Goals (for example, but not by way of limitation, as a ratio or matrix), (3) in relative terms (including, but not limited to, as compared to results for other periods of time, and/or against another company, companies or an index or indices), (4) on a per-share or per-capita basis, (5) against the performance of the Company as a whole or a specific business unit(s), business segment(s) or product(s) of the Company, and/or (6) on a pre-tax or after-tax basis. Prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its discretion, will determine whether any significant element(s) or item(s) will be included in or excluded from the calculation of any Performance Goal with respect to any Participants (for example, but not by way of limitation, the effect of mergers and acquisitions). As determined in the discretion of the Committee prior to the Determination Date, achievement of Performance Goals for a particular Award may be calculated in accordance with the Company's financial statements, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or as adjusted for certain costs, expenses, gains and losses to provide non-GAAP measures of operating results.
Performance Goals
 
2.23 "" means any Fiscal Year (or period of four (4) consecutive Fiscal Quarters) or such other period longer than a Fiscal Year but not longer than three Fiscal Years (or period of twelve (12) consecutive Fiscal Quarters), as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. With respect to any Participant, there shall exist no more than four (4) Performance Periods at any one time.
Performance Period
 
2.24 "" means as to any Performance Period, the objective and measurable goals approved by the Committee for the design, creation or manufacture of products, which goals may include (but not by way of limitation) conformance to design or use specifications or requirements not to exceed specified defect levels.
Product Development and Quality
 
2.25 "" means as to any Performance Period, income.
Profit
 
2.26 "" means, with respect to any Participant, a termination of his or her employment with the Company and all of its Affiliates after: (a) obtaining at least sixty (60) years of age and whose age plus Years of Service with the Company is not less than seventy (70), or (b) obtaining at least sixty-five (65) years of age.
Retirement
 
2.27 "" means as to any Performance Period, Profit divided by invested capital.
Return on Capital
 
2.28 "" means as to any Performance Period, the percentage equal to Profit divided by stockholder's equity.
Return on Equity
 
2.29 "" means as to any Performance Period, net sales.
Revenue
 
2.30 "" means a person who is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Section 16 Officer
 
2.31 "" means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the regulations and guidance thereunder, as they may be amended or modified from time to time.
Section 409A
 
2.32 "" means the target award payable under the Plan to a Participant for the Performance Period, expressed as a percentage of his or her Base Salary, a dollar amount, or a result of a formula or formulas, as determined by the Committee in accordance with Section 3.3.
Target Award
 
2.33 "" means as to any Performance Period, the total return (change in share price, including treatment of dividends as determined by the Committee) of a share of the Company's common stock.
Total Shareholder Return
 
2.34 "" means the number of months (or a fraction thereof) from a Participant's latest hire date with the Company or its Affiliate to the date in question, divided by twelve (12). The Participant's latest hire date will be determined after giving effect to the non-401(k) plan principles of North American Human Resources Policy No. 2-06, Re-Employment of Former Employees/Bridging of Service, as such policy may be amended, revised or superseded from time to time.
Years of Service
 
 
3.1 . On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall select the officers of the Company who shall be Participants for the Performance Period. The Committee, in its sole discretion, also may designate as Participants one or more individuals (by name or position) who are expected to become officers during a Performance Period. Participation in the Plan is in the sole discretion of the Committee, and on a Performance Period by Performance Period basis. Accordingly, an officer who is a Participant for a given Performance Period in no way is guaranteed or assured of being selected for participation in any subsequent Performance Period or Periods.
Selection of Participants
 
3.2 . On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish the Performance Goals for each Participant for the Performance Period. Such Performance Goals shall be set forth in writing.
Determination of Performance Goals
 
3.3 . On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Target Award for each Participant. Each Participant's Target Award shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and each Target Award shall be set forth in writing.
Determination of Target Awards
 
3.4 . On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Payout Formula for purposes of determining the Actual Award, if any, payable to each Participant. Each Payout Formula shall (a) be in writing, (b) be based on a comparison of actual performance to the Performance Goals, (c) provide for the payment of a Participant's Target Award if the Performance Goals for the Performance Period are achieved, and (d) provide for an Actual Award greater than or less than the Participant's Target Award, depending upon the extent to which actual performance exceeds or falls below the Performance Goals. Notwithstanding the preceding, no Participant's Actual Award under the Plan may exceed his or her Maximum Award.
Determination of Payout Formula
 
3.5 . After the end of each Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing (for example, in its meeting minutes) the extent to which the Performance Goals applicable to each Participant for the Performance Period were achieved or exceeded, as determined by the Committee. The Actual Award for each Participant shall be determined by applying the Payout Formula to the level of actual performance that has been certified by the Committee. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan, (a) the Committee, in its sole discretion, may eliminate or reduce the Actual Award payable to any Participant below that otherwise would be payable under the Payout Formula, (b) if a Participant terminates employment with the Company prior to the end of a Performance Period for a reason other than Retirement, Disability or death, he or she shall not be entitled to the payment of an Actual Award for the Performance Period, and (c) the Board, in its sole discretion, may require a Participant to forfeit, return or reimburse the Company all or a portion of his or her Actual Award in accordance with Section 4.5 below.
Determination of Actual Awards
 
 
4.1 . Each Actual Award that may become payable under the Plan shall be paid solely from the general assets of the Company. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to create a trust or to establish or evidence any Participant's claim of any right other than as an unsecured general creditor with respect to any payment to which he or she may be entitled.
Right to Receive Payment
 
4.2. Payment of each Actual Award shall be made after the end of the Performance Period during which the Actual Award was earned but no later than the fifteen (15
Timing of Payment
th
) day of the third (3
rd
) month after the end of the Fiscal Year in which such Performance Period ended. In addition, if the relevant Performance Period exceeds one Fiscal Year, the payment of each Actual Award for such Performance Period shall be made within the time period set forth in the prior sentence, but in all events after the end of the Performance Period but on or before December 31 of the calendar year in which the Performance Period ends.
 
4.3 . Each Actual Award normally shall be paid in cash (or its equivalent) in a single lump sum. However, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may declare any Actual Award, in whole or in part, payable in restricted stock granted under the Company's Employee Stock Incentive Plan. The number of shares granted shall be determined by dividing the cash amount foregone by the fair market value of a share on the date that the cash payment otherwise would have been made. For this purpose, "fair market value" shall mean the closing price on the NASDAQ Global Select Market /National Market for the day in question. Any restricted stock so awarded shall vest over the period determined by the Committee, which shall in no event be a period of more than four years, subject to acceleration for termination of employment due to death, Disability, or Retirement.
Form of Payment
 
4.4 . If a Participant dies prior to the payment of an Actual Award earned by him or her prior to death for a completed Performance Period, the Actual Award shall be paid to his or her estate.
Payment in the Event of Death
 
4.5 . Pursuant to the Company's clawback policy, the Board, in its sole discretion, may require a Participant to forfeit, return or reimburse the Company all or a portion of his or her Actual Award, if (a) the Participant is or was a Section 16 Officer during the applicable Performance Period, and (b) the Participant deliberately engaged in Intentional Misconduct that was determined by the Board, in its sole discretion, to be the primary cause of a material negative restatement of a Company financial statement that was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and such financial statement, as originally filed, is one of the Company's three (3) most recently filed annual financial statements. The portion of the Actual Award, if any, that a Participant may be required to forfeit, return or reimburse will be determined by the Board, in its sole discretion, but will be no more than the after-tax portion of the Actual Award that was (1) in excess of the Actual Award he or she would have received had the Company's financial results been calculated under the restated financial statements, and (2) paid within the period beginning on the date the Committee determines the Actual Award (in accordance with Section 3.5 of the Plan) and ending on the date that is twelve (12) months after the original filing of the financial statement that subsequently was restated.
Clawback in Connection with a Material Negative Financial Restatement
 
 
5.1 . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall consist of not less than two (2) members of the Board. The members of the Committee shall be appointed from time to time by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board. Each member of the Committee shall qualify as an "outside director" under Section 162(m) of the Code. If it is later determined that one or more members of the Committee do not so qualify, actions taken by the Committee prior to such determination shall be valid despite such failure to qualify. Any member of the Committee may resign at any time by notice in writing mailed or delivered to the Secretary of the Company. As of the Effective Date of the Plan, the Plan shall be administered by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board.
Committee is the Administrator
 
5.2. It shall be the duty of the Committee to administer the Plan in accordance with the Plan's provisions. The Committee shall have all powers and discretion necessary or appropriate to administer the Plan and to control its operation, including, but not limited to, the power to (a) determine which officers shall be granted awards, (b) prescribe the terms and conditions of awards, (c) interpret the Plan and the awards, (d) adopt such procedures and subplans as are necessary or appropriate to permit participation in the Plan by officers who are foreign nationals or employed outside of the United States, (e) adopt rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith, and (f) interpret, amend or revoke any such rules.
Committee Authority
 
5.3 . All interpretations, determinations and decisions made by the Committee, the Board, and any delegate of the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all persons, and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.
Decisions Binding
 
5.4 . The Committee, in its sole discretion and on such terms and conditions as it may provide, may delegate all or part of its authority and powers under the Plan to one or more directors and/or officers of the Company; provided, however, that the Committee may not delegate its authority and/or powers with respect to awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Delegation by the Committee
 
5.5 . The Company shall withhold all applicable taxes from any payment, including any federal, Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA), state, and local taxes.
Tax Withholding
 
 
6.1 . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate, as applicable, to terminate any Participant's employment or service at any time, with or without cause. For purposes of the Plan, transfer of employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of its Affiliates (or between Affiliates) shall not be deemed a termination of employment. Employment with the Company and its Affiliates is on an at-will basis only. The Company expressly reserves the right, which may be
No Effect on Employment
 
exercised at any time and without regard to when during or after a Performance Period such exercise occurs, to terminate any individual's employment with or without cause, and to treat him or her without regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him or her as a Participant.
 
6.2 . It is intended that all bonuses payable under this Plan will be exempt from the requirements of Section 409A pursuant to the "short-term deferral" exemption or, in the alternative, will comply with the requirements of Section 409A so that none of the payments and benefits to be provided under this Plan will be subject to the additional tax imposed under Section 409A, and any ambiguities or ambiguous terms herein shall be interpreted to so comply or be exempt. Each payment and benefit payable under this Plan is intended to constitute a separate payment for purposes of Section 1.409A-2(b)(2) of the Treasury Regulations. The Company may, in good faith and without the consent of any Participant, make any amendments to this Plan and take such reasonable actions which it deems necessary, appropriate or desirable to avoid imposition of any additional tax or income recognition under Section 409A prior to actual payment to the Participant.
Section 409A
 
6.3 . No individual shall have the right to be selected to receive an award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future award.
Participation
 
6.4. Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (a) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any award, and (b) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Indemnification
 
6.5 . All obligations of the Company and any Affiliate under the Plan, with respect to awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company and/or such Affiliate, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company or such Affiliate.
Successors
 
6.6 . A Participant shall have no right to assign or transfer any interest under this Plan.
Nonassignability
 
6.7 . No award granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will, by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to an award granted to a Participant shall be available during his or her lifetime only to the Participant.
Nontransferability of Awards
 
6.8 . The Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit a Participant to defer receipt of the payment of cash that would otherwise be delivered to a Participant under the Plan. Any such deferral elections shall be subject to such rules and procedures as shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion and, unless otherwise expressly determined by the Committee, shall comply with the requirements of Section 409A.
Deferrals
 
6.9 . The Plan and all award agreements shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of California, excluding its conflicts of laws provisions.
Governing Law
 
 
7.1 . The Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason; provided, however, that if and to the extent required to ensure the Plan's qualification under Code Section 162(m), any such amendment shall be subject to stockholder approval.
Amendment and Termination
 


