FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20050727070037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 27, 2005, VALOR Communications Group, Inc., issued a press release announcing its second quarter operating results.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 7.01 .
Regulation FD Disclosure
A copy of the press release relating to the announcement is furnished by attachment hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
VALOR Communications Group, Inc. (NYSE:VCG) today reported second quarter 2005 consolidated operating results. VALOR will host a conference call today at 10 a.m. (EDT) to discuss these results and our business. Highlights for the second quarter of 2005 include:
IRVING, Texas, July 27, 2005 
"VALOR continued to add DSL subscribers at a record pace during the quarter, and we are well on our way to exceeding our internal target. Based on the success of our DSL deployment, we are accelerating our DSL rollout to reach 70% availability by the end of 2005," said Jack Mueller, VALOR Communications Group president and chief executive officer. "We also increased average revenue per line in the quarter by 3.5% to $78.75 compared to a year ago and by 1.1% sequentially and increased our total connections by approximately 1% compared to a year ago.
"In addition, we substantially increased our cash available to pay dividends compared to the first quarter of 2005 on a pro forma basis," continued Mueller. "We paid our first full quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share on July 15, which represents an annual rate of $1.44 per share."
1
 
Financial Results
Second Quarter 2005 Financial Highlights
(Dollars in thousands except operating margin %)
 
Operating revenue was $126.1 million, a decrease of 0.6% compared to the prior year. Increases in revenue from data services and long distance of 28.7% and 8.0%, respectively, were offset by reductions in revenue from local services, access services and the universal service fund of 1.4%, 7.8% and 2.1%, respectively, due to access line losses and lower access rates. Sequentially, operating revenue increased approximately $0.1 million, or 0.1%.
Operating income for the second quarter of 2005 was $44.9 million, a decrease of 0.1% compared to the prior year. Excluding $2 million of non-cash stock compensation expense recorded in the current quarter and a $5 million non-recurring expense booked in the second quarter of 2004, operating income was $46.9 million and $49.9 million in the second quarter of 2005 and 2004, respectively, and operating margins were 37.2% and 39.4%, respectively.
VALOR reported net income of $18.2 million for the second quarter of 2005, compared to net income of $3.3 million for the second quarter of 2004. Second quarter 2005 net income includes significantly reduced interest expense as a result of VALOR's post-IPO capital structure, which affects comparability to the prior year period. Comparability between 2005 and 2004 is also impacted by income taxes, minority interest, $23 million in one-time items in 2004 and $2.0 million in non-cash stock compensation in 2005. As a result of our initial public offering and reorganization, the operations of the company and all wholly owned subsidiaries became reportable in a consolidated corporate federal tax return, whereas, in 2004 only VALOR Telecommunications Southwest II, LLC had elected to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Additionally, in connection with our initial public offering and reorganization, we redeemed all outstanding minority interests.
Indebtedness
In April, we repaid $10 million of debt under our credit facility, which reduced our total long-term debt to $1.19 billion. We intend to make an optional prepayment of $10 million on Friday, July 29, 2005, which, excluding debt repayments as a result of proceeds from our recent offerings, will bring our year-to-date debt repayments to $30 million.
2
 
Cash Available to Pay Dividends (CAPD)
(Dollars in millions)
 
Q2 2005 Operating Statistics
 
Total access lines decreased by 6,748 lines, or 1.3%, sequentially, and 4.2% compared to the second quarter of 2004. Total Connections increased 0.4% sequentially and 0.9% compared to the prior year. Average revenue per access line increased 3.5% compared to the prior year.
On a year-to-date basis, approximately 80% of VALOR's access line loss occurred in markets with active cable-telephony competition. Those markets represented approximately 11% of VALOR's total access lines at June 30, 2005.
"Our access line retention and growth initiatives underway and the new initiatives we launched during the quarter helped increase our average revenue per line," said Mueller. "Although we expect these initiatives to continue to help mitigate line losses, we now expect our 2005 access line losses to exceed last year's 2.9% loss rate. We continue to focus on leveraging opportunities for bundling, long distance, satellite and DSL to continue increasing our average revenue per access line, penetration and total connections."
3
 
Other Highlights
In July 2005, VALOR announced the commencement of an exchange offer for up to $400 million of our unregistered 7-3/4% senior notes due 2015 for notes that have been registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Due to the timing of our second quarter earnings announcement in relation to the original date of the lock-up expiration, and according to the terms of the lock-up agreement, the lock-up expiration has been extended to Sunday, Aug. 14, 2005.
At the VALOR Annual Meeting on May 24, shareholders elected 11 board members for a one-year term, including two board members who were appointed to the board of directors in April: Norman W. Alpert, managing director and a founder of Vestar Capital Partners in New York, one of VALOR's original equity sponsors; Edward J. Heffernan, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Alliance Data Systems Corporation in Dallas, Texas. Alpert is a member of the Compensation Committee, and Heffernan is a member of the Audit Committee.
In early May, the membership of Locals 6171 and 7019 of the Communications Workers of America ratified a new three-year collective bargaining agreement between VALOR Telecom and Communications Workers of America. The agreement affects approximately 800 bargaining unit employees in VALOR's New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas Operations and Call Centers. The new contract continues through Feb. 28, 2008.
We have engaged Bank of America Securities to explore the possibility of amending the terms of our credit facility to take advantage of more favorable market conditions.
2005 Outlook
For the full year 2005, VALOR expects cash available to pay dividends, as defined herein, of $128 million to $133 million on a pro forma basis. As previously disclosed, we expect full year 2005 capital expenditures of approximately $59 million.
Conference Call Information
As previously announced, we will host a conference call and simultaneous Webcast to discuss second quarter results at 10 a.m. (EDT) on July 27, 2005. During the conference call, we may discuss and answer one or more questions concerning our business and financial matters as well as trends that affect us. Our responses to these questions, as well as other matters discussed during the conference call, may contain information that has not been previously disclosed.
Simultaneously with the conference call, an audio Webcast of the call will be available via a link on our website, , "Investor Relations," or at . To access the call, dial 1-800-299-7635, or outside the United States, dial 1-617-786-2901. The conference call pass code is 57606801. A replay of the call will be available beginning at approximately 2 p.m. (EDT), July 27, 2005, through Aug. 3, 2005, at the above Web sites or by calling 1-888-286-8010 or, outside the United States, 1-617-801-6888. The pass code for the replay is 87714832.
www.valortelecom.com
www.earnings.com
Non-GAAP Measures
VALOR uses certain non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating our performance and liquidity. These include adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA) and "Cash Available to Pay Dividends." These non-GAAP financial measures are by definition not measures of financial performance under
4
 
generally accepted accounting principles and are not alternatives to operating income or net income reflected in the statement of operations or to cash flow as reflected in the statement of cash flows and are not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund all cash flow needs.
VALOR presents Adjusted EBITDA because covenants in our credit facility contain ratios based on this measure. A reconciliation of the differences between these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are included in the schedules that follow.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined in the credit facility as: (1) consolidated adjusted net income, as defined therein; plus (2) the following items, to the extent deducted from consolidated adjusted net income: (a) interest expense; (b) provision for income taxes; (c) depreciation and amortization; (d) certain expenses related to our initial public offering of common stock, our recent debt recapitalization and the other transactions described in "Use of Proceeds" in our registration statement for our initial public offering of common stock completed February 9, 2005; (e) other nonrecurring or unusual costs or losses incurred after the closing date of our new credit facility, to the extent not exceeding $10.0 million; (f) unrealized losses on financial derivatives recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 133; (g) losses on sales of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; and (h) all other non-cash charges that represent an accrual for which no cash is expected to be paid in a future period; minus (3) the following items, to the extent any of them increases consolidated adjusted net income; (v) income tax credits; (w) interest and dividend income (other than in respect of Rural Telephone Finance Cooperative patronage distribution); (x) gains on asset disposals not in the ordinary course; (y) unrealized gains on financial derivatives recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 133; and (z) all other non-cash income.
Cash Available to Pay Dividends is defined herein as Adjusted EBITDA less the sum of (i) any item excluded from the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA that has been or will be settled in cash, (ii) cash interest expense, (iii) capital expenditures and (iv) cash income taxes.
VALOR considers Adjusted EBITDA and Cash Available to Pay Dividends as important indicators to investors in our common stock because they provide information related to our ability to provide cash flows to service debt, fund capital expenditures and pay dividends. If our Adjusted EBITDA were to decline below certain levels, covenants in our credit facility that are based on Adjusted EBITDA, including our interest coverage ratio and total leverage ratio covenants, may be violated and could cause, among other things, a default or mandatory prepayment under our credit facility, or result in our inability to pay dividends. Adjusted EBITDA and Cash Available to Pay Dividends are not measures in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered a substitute for operating income (loss), net income (loss) or any other measure of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA and Cash Available to Pay Dividends should not be used as a substitute for our various cash flow measures (e.g., operating, investing and financing cash flows). The non-GAAP financial measures used by VALOR may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.
While VALOR utilizes these non-GAAP financial measures in managing and analyzing our business and financial condition and believes they are useful to management and to investors for the reasons described above, these non-GAAP financial measures have certain shortcomings. In particular, Adjusted EBITDA does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures, since items such as debt repayments and interest payments are not deducted from such measure. Management compensates for the shortcomings of these measures by utilizing them in conjunction with their comparable GAAP financial measures. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and footnotes contained in documents filed periodically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
This press release includes management's estimate of pro forma cash available to pay dividends, a non-GAAP financial measure, for the year ending December 31, 2005. We believe the most directly comparable GAAP measure would be "Net cash provided by operating activities." Due to the difficulty in forecasting and quantifying the amounts that would be required to be included in this comparable GAAP measure, VALOR is not providing an estimate of net cash provided by operating activities for the year ending December 31, 2005 at this time.
VALOR Communications Group (NYSE:VCG) is one of the largest providers of telecommunications services in rural communities in the southwestern United States. The company, through its subsidiary VALOR Telecom, offers to residential, business and government customers a wide range of telecommunications services, including: local exchange telephone services, which covers basic dial-tone service as well as enhanced services, such as caller identification, voicemail and call waiting; long distance services; and data services, such as providing digital subscriber lines. VALOR Communications Group is headquartered in Irving, Texas. For more information, visit . Information contained on our website does not comprise a part of this press release.
About VALOR Communications Group
www.valortelecom.com
VALOR Communications Group ("VALOR") is a holding company and has no direct operations. VALOR was formed for the sole purpose of reorganizing our corporate structure and consummation of our offering in February 2005. VALOR's principal assets are the direct and indirect equity interests in its subsidiaries. As a result, the historical consolidated financial results prior to the offering in February 2005 only reflect the operations of VALOR Telecommunications, LLC.
5
 
Certain matters discussed in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "estimates," "projects," "outlook" and other similar expressions, which are predictions of or indicate future events and trends, typically identify forward-looking statements. Statements in this press release regarding VALOR Communications Group's business that are not historical facts, including our intention to pay quarterly dividends and our 2005 outlook, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or the timing of events to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you that the expectations discussed in these forward-looking statements will be attained. Some of the factors that could cause actual results or the timing of certain events to differ from those described in these forward-looking statements include, without limitation: our leverage and debt service obligations; the terms of our credit facility and our rights and obligations there under; any adverse changes in government regulation; the risk that we may not be able to retain existing customers or obtain new customers; the risk of increased competition in the markets we serve; our financial position, results of operations and availability of capital; and other risks detailed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, the risks described in our Prospectus dated July 1, 2005, relating to our senior notes exchange offer and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 31, 2005 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, the occurrence of future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
Safe Harbor Statement
Supplemental Schedules
6
 
Schedule A Valor Communications Group, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Operations (Dollars, except per share amounts, in thousands) (Unaudited)
 
7
 
Schedule B
Valor Communications Group, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited)
8
 
Schedule C
Valor Communications Group, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited)
9
 
Schedule D
Valor Communications Group, Inc. Selected Financial and Operating Data (Dollars, except revenue per access line amounts, in thousands) (Unaudited)
 
10
 
Schedule E
Valor Communications Group, Inc. Non-GAAP Measures  Adjusted EBITDA Calculation (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited)
11
 
Schedule F
Valor Communications Group, Inc. Non-GAAP Measures  Cash Available to Pay Dividends Reconciliation (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited)
 
12
 
Schedule G
Historical Operating Statistics
 
13


