FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20051209165537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 9, 2005, Valor Communications Group, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with ALLTEL Holding Corp. ("Spinco"), a newly formed, wholly owned subsidiary of Alltel Corporation ("Alltel") that will hold Alltel's wireline telecommunications business and certain related business operations ("Alltel Wireline") following the contribution by Alltel of Alltel Wireline to Spinco (the "Contribution"). Following the Contribution, Alltel will distribute to its stockholders all of the shares of capital stock of Spinco (the "Distribution"), and then Spinco will be merged with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation. In order to effect the Contribution and the Distribution, Alltel and Spinco entered into a Distribution Agreement (the "Distribution Agreement"). Prior to the Distribution, Spinco will consummate certain financing transactions (the "Spinco Financing") pursuant to which Spinco will borrow approximately $3.965 billion through a new senior credit agreement, the issuance of high yield debt securities in an offering under Rule 144A or a public offering and the distribution of Spinco debt securities to the Company. The proceeds of the Spinco Financing will be used to pay a dividend to Alltel's stockholders (in an amount not to exceed Alltel's tax basis in Spinco) and for other purposes.
Merger Agreement
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, and subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, immediately after the consummation of the Contribution and the Distribution, Spinco will merge (the "Merger") with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation (the "Surviving Corporation"). As a result of the Merger, all of the issued and outstanding shares of Spinco common stock will be converted into the right to receive an aggregate number of shares of common stock of the Company that will result in Alltel's stockholders holding 85% of the outstanding equity interests of the Surviving Corporation immediately after the Merger and the stockholders of the Company holding the remaining 15% of such equity interests (subject , in each case, to dilution from compensatory equity grants and other issuances).
The Merger Agreement provides that, following the Merger, Jeffrey Gardener, who currently serves as Executive Vice President  Chief Financial Officer of Alltel, will serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the Surviving Corporation, and Francis X. Frantz, who currently serves as the Executive Vice President  External Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary of Alltel will serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Surviving Corporation. The Merger Agreement also provides that following the Merger, the Board of Directors of the Surviving Corporation will consist of nine members: Messrs. Frantz and Gardener, six directors to be designated by Alltel and one director to be designated by the Company, with a majority of the Board of Directors of the Surviving Corporation being "independent" within the meaning of the NYSE's rules.
 
The Merger Agreement contains customary representations and warranties between Alltel and Spinco, on the one hand, and the Company, on the other, including with respect to accuracy of financial statements, the absence of undisclosed liabilities and similar matters. The parties have also agreed to a variety of customary covenants and agreements, including with respect to confidentiality, cooperation, public disclosure, regulatory cooperation and similar matters. The initial quarterly dividend rate of the Surviving Corporation following the Merger will be $0.25 per share.
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Spinco and the Company are restricted from taking certain actions prior to the effective time of the Merger that could adversely affect the tax-free treatment of the Distribution and related transactions. In addition, the Surviving Corporation will indemnify Alltel for any such actions that disqualify the Distribution for such tax-free treatment.
Unless the Merger Agreement is earlier terminated, the Company is required to submit the Merger Agreement to a stockholder vote even if the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board) has withdrawn its recommendation of the Merger. The Company is generally prohibited from soliciting competing acquisition proposals and may not discuss a competing acquisition proposal unless the proposal is superior to the Merger or the Board determines in good faith that the proposal could lead to a superior proposal. In such event, the Company may engage in discussions with the prospective acquirer, provided certain information is given to Alltel, and the Company may terminate the Merger Agreement to accept a superior proposal, subject to certain conditions and the payment of the termination fee described below.
The Merger Agreement may be terminated: (i) by mutual consent of the parties, (ii) by any of the parties if the Merger has not been completed by December 8, 2006 (the "Termination Date"), (iii) by any of the parties if the Merger is enjoined, (iv) by Alltel and Spinco, on the one hand, or the Company, on the other hand, upon an incurable material breach of the Merger Agreement by the other party or parties, (v) by any party if the Company's stockholders fail to approve the Merger, (vi) by Alltel or Spinco if the Company withdraws its recommendation of the Merger or fails to hold its stockholder meeting within 60 days after effectiveness of the registration statement, or (vii) by the Company to accept a superior acquisition proposal, provided that the Company gives Alltel prior notice and attempts to renegotiate the transaction, and upon termination the Company enters into a competing transaction.
In the event that (i) the Company terminates the Merger Agreement to accept a superior acquisition proposal, (ii) Alltel and Spinco terminate the Merger Agreement because the Board has withdrawn its recommendation of the Merger, (iii) any of the parties terminates the Merger Agreement because the Termination Date has passed or Alltel and Spinco terminate the Merger Agreement because the Company fails to hold its stockholder meeting, or (iv) any of the parties terminates the Merger Agreement because the Company's stockholders fail to approve the Merger, and in the case of clauses (iii) and (iv) the Company agrees to or consummates a business combination transaction within one year after termination, then the Company must pay Alltel a $35 million termination fee. If any party terminates the Merger Agreement because the Termination Date has passed or the Company terminates the Merger Agreement because of a material breach by Alltel or Spinco and, in either case, at the time of termination substantially all other conditions to the Merger have been satisfied but the required IRS rulings or tax opinions for the transaction have not been received, then Alltel must pay the Company a $20 million
 
termination fee and, if Alltel has failed to obtain sufficient financing to consummate the Distribution at the time of termination, then Alltel must pay the Company an increased termination fee of $35 million.
Consummation of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including, among others, (i) the approval of the Merger by the stockholders of the Company, (ii) the receipt of required regulatory approvals, including the approval of the Federal Communications Commission and the expiration of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, (iii) consummation of the Contribution, the Distribution and the distribution by Spinco to Alltel of certain Spinco debt securities, (iv) consummation of the Spinco Financing, (v) receipt of surplus, solvency and certain other opinions and (vi) receipt of certain rulings from the Internal Revenue Service. The Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement are expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2006.
The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Forward Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results of the Company to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results.
Actual future events and results of the Company may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by the Company, Spinco and Alltel; the extent, timing, and overall effects of competition in the communications business; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; changes in communications technology; the risks associated with the separation of Alltel's wireline business; failure to realize expected synergies and other benefits as a result of the Merger and other transactions described above; adverse changes in the terms and conditions of wireline agreements of the Company, Spinco and Alltel; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to the Company s debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the uncertainties related to the Company's strategic investments; the effects of work stoppages; the effects of litigation,
 
including any litigation with respect to the Distribution or the Merger; and the effects of federal and state legislation, rules, and regulations governing the communications industry. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this Current Report on Form 8-K should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company's future results included in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
ITEM 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
The Company issued a press release on December 9, 2005 announcing the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Item 7.01 is not filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not deemed incorporated by reference by any general statements incorporating by reference this report or future filings into any filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent the Company specifically incorporates the information by reference. By including this Item 7.01 disclosure in the filing of this Current Report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report that is required to be disclosed solely by reason of Regulation FD.
The information contained herein is summary information that is intended to be considered in the context of our SEC filings and other public announcements that we may make, by press release or otherwise, from time to time. We undertake no duty or obligation to publicly update or revise the information contained in this report, although we may do so from time to time as we believe is warranted. Any such updating may be made through the filing of other reports or documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission, through press releases or through other public disclosures.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
See Exhibit Index.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
VALOR Communications Group, Inc. (NYSE:VCG) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved an agreement in which VALOR would merge with Alltel's (NYSE:AT) Wireline business segment ("Alltel Wireline"). Alltel Wireline will be spun off and then merged with VALOR Communications Group, Inc. in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction that will create the leading rural-focused wireline company with 3.4 million access lines in 16 states. In the transaction VALOR will issue approximately 400 million shares of stock in exchange for Alltel Wireline stock. Upon completion of the transaction, VALOR shareholders will own 15 percent of the combined entity.
IRVING, Texas, Dec. 9, 2005 
VALOR will host a conference call today at 11:00 a.m. (EST) to discuss the merger. Details appear later in this press release under "Conference Call Information."
Transaction Highlights
"This combination creates the clear industry leader in rural wireline telecom. Our leverage and payout ratio will decrease significantly and the combined company will have larger scale, a well clustered rural footprint and a stronger competitive position. We also have a common billing platform already in place, which reduces integration risk," said Jack Mueller, VALOR Communications Group president and chief executive officer.
 
Pro Forma Highlights
Mr. Mueller also stated, "As part of our previously discussed focused strategy, VALOR continually reviews strategic transactions and believes that this transaction provides significant value creation for our shareholders. In addition, I believe the combined company will be able to better leverage existing infrastructure creating cost savings opportunities, financial flexibility and potential for further value creation."
"VALOR is a very good fit with the Alltel wireline business and the combined companies will add value for our shareholders," said Jeff Gardner, president and chief executive officer of the new company. "I am pleased that the new company will add senior leadership from VALOR's current team and I look forward to working with my colleagues at VALOR to run our new company," added Mr. Gardner.
The transaction is expected to close by mid-2006 and requires approval from VALOR shareholders, federal and state regulators and a letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service approving the tax-free status.
Voting Agreements
Shareholders representing approximately 42% of the VALOR share ownership have entered into voting agreements pursuant to which they have agreed to vote in favor of this transaction.
Dividends
VALOR also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a dividend of $0.36 per share of common stock for shareholders of record on Dec. 31, 2005. The dividend is payable on Jan. 16, 2006.
VALOR plans to continue paying its current dividend through the date of closing. Post closing the combined company expects to pay an annual dividend of $1.00 per share.
2005 Outlook
For the full year 2005, VALOR maintains its expectations of cash available to pay dividends, as defined in its third quarter 2005 earnings release, of $128 million to $133 million on a pro forma basis. The company continues to expect full year 2005 capital expenditures of approximately $59 million.
Advisors
VALOR was advised on the transaction by Wachovia Securities and Kirkland & Ellis, LLP. Wachovia Securities and Bear, Stearns & Co., Inc. rendered fairness opinions regarding the transaction to VALOR's board of directors.
 
Conference Call Information
VALOR will host a conference call and simultaneous Webcast to discuss the Alltel Wireline merger at 11 a.m. (EST) on Fri., Dec. 9, 2005. Presentation slides and the webcast links are available from VALOR's website at in the investor relations section. To access the call, dial 1-800-218-0204, or outside the United States, dial 1-303-262-2075. A pass code is not required. A replay of the call will be available beginning at approximately 1 p.m. (EST), Dec. 9, 2005, through Dec. 16, 2005, by calling 1-800-405-2236 or, outside the United States, 1-303-590-3000. The pass code for the replay is 11048044#. The webcast replay will be available after the call from the link on our website.
www.valortelecom.com
Non-GAAP Measures
Historically, VALOR has presented certain non-GAAP measures that we believe to be useful indicators to investors in our common stock. These measures include both adjusted EBITDA and Cash Available to Pay Dividends (CAPD). We have introduced a new non-GAAP measure, Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization (OIBDA), in this release because it is a measure that is currently utilized by Alltel Wireline and we believe it is useful to present the same measure for comparative purposes. Also, it is likely that upon the closing of this transaction the combined entity will present this measure. A reconciliation of Operating Income, as determined under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, to OIBDA for VALOR, Alltel Wireline, and the pro forma combined entity have been included in the table that follows. We plan to continue to present adjusted EBITDA and CAPD in our future releases until such time as the transaction has been completed.
This press release includes management's estimate of pro forma CAPD for the year ending December 31, 2005. VALOR believes the most directly comparable GAAP measure would be "Net cash provided by operating activities." Due to the difficulty in forecasting and quantifying the amounts that would be required to be included in this comparable GAAP measure, VALOR is not providing an estimate of net cash provided by operating activities for the year ending December 31, 2005 at this time.
VALOR Communications Group (NYSE:VCG) is one of the largest providers of telecommunications services in rural communities in the southwestern United States. The company, through its subsidiary VALOR Telecom, offers to residential, business and government customers a wide range of telecommunications services, including: local exchange telephone services, which covers basic dial-tone service as well as enhanced services, such as caller identification, voicemail and call waiting; long distance services; and data services, such as providing digital subscriber lines. VALOR Communications Group is headquartered in Irving, Texas. For more information, visit . Information contained on our website does not comprise a part of this press release.
About VALOR Communications Group
www.valortelecom.com
Certain matters discussed in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "estimates," "projects, " "outlook" and other similar expressions, which are predictions of or indicate future events and trends, typically identify forward-looking statements. Statements in this press release regarding VALOR Communications Group's business that are not historical facts, including our intention to pay quarterly dividends and our 2005 outlook, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or the timing of events to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you that the expectations discussed in these forward-looking statements will be attained. Some of the factors that could cause actual results or the timing of certain events to differ from those described in these forward-looking statements include, without limitation: our leverage and debt service obligations; the terms of our credit facility and our rights and obligations there under; any adverse changes in government regulation; the risk that we may not be able to retain existing customers or obtain new customers; the risk of increased competition in the markets we serve; our financial position, results of operations and availability of capital; and other risks detailed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, the risks described in our Prospectus dated July 1, 2005, relating to our senior notes exchange offer and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 31, 2005 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, the occurrence of future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
Safe Harbor Statement
 
VALOR Communications Group, Inc. Pro Forma Financial Measures Reflecting Merger With Alltel Wireline (dollars in millions) (Unaudited)
 


