FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20050428172518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 27, 2005, Valor Communications Group, Inc. issued a press release announcing its first quarter operating results.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
A copy of the press release relating to the announcement is being furnished by being attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
VALOR Communications Group, Inc. (NYSE:VCG) today reported first-quarter 2005 consolidated operating results. The highlights include:
IRVING, Texas, April 27, 2005 
"VALOR recorded solid results in the first quarter and executed according to plan," said Jack Mueller, VALOR Communications Group president and chief executive officer. "We succeeded in increasing the penetration of higher margin services, leveraged cross-selling and bundling opportunities, improved operating efficiencies and provided superior service and customer care. This enabled us to meet our internal performance expectations and, most importantly, to continue to produce strong and stable cash flows."
"During the quarter, we realized several key accomplishments that strengthened VALOR as a company," Mr. Mueller added. "We repaid over $10 million of debt during the quarter from operating cash flow, and with the reduction of debt from our IPO proceeds we have positioned the company to continue to generate sufficient cash to pay dividends and reduce leverage modestly. We also celebrated another record quarter for DSL products, resulting in an increase of 211.5% in subscribers over first quarter 2004. This success continues to help increase our average revenue per line and increase our DSL penetration. In addition, in New Mexico, VALOR played an instrumental role in the development and passage of access reform legislation, which will be revenue neutral to the company but may position VALOR for additional revenue opportunities."
 
During the quarter, VALOR repaid $10.5 million of debt. Furthermore, VALOR repaid an additional $10.0 million of debt under our credit facility earlier this week, which brings the total amount of optional debt repayments since the beginning of the year to $20.5 million as of today. In addition, VALOR entered into several interest rate protection agreements during the quarter as required per the terms of our Senior Credit Agreement. The execution of these interest rate protection agreements, along with our existing fixed rate debt, effectively limits the interest rate exposure on approximately 75% of our total outstanding debt for the next three years. The company will continue to review these agreements on a quarterly basis to determine their effectiveness and to adjust the interest rate protection strategy if necessary.
Indebtedness
During the quarter, VALOR was influential in working with New Mexico regulators to develop access reform legislation. Under the provisions of the new law, VALOR's intrastate access rates will be reduced to VALOR's interstate access rate in effect on January 1, 2006 in a phased implementation during the period April 2006 to May 2008. The access revenue reductions will be revenue neutral to VALOR through a combination of increases in prices charged for basic local services and payments from a new state universal service fund.
New Mexico Access Reform Legislation
FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
Financial Highlights
($ in thousands)
For the first quarter of 2005, revenues were $125.9 million, an increase of 0.1% from $125.9 million generated in the first quarter of 2004.
 
Consolidated operating income for the first quarter of 2005 was $37.6 million, a decline of 17.3%, from operating income of $45.5 million in the first quarter of 2004. Operating margin for the first quarter of 2005 was 29.9%, down from 36.2% in the first quarter of 2004. Included in the first quarter 2005 operating expenses are $6.4 million of non-cash stock compensation expense and $1.7 million of compensation expense related to IPO bonuses paid to our management team that affects comparability to the prior year's quarter.
VALOR reported a consolidated net loss of $12.6 million for the first quarter of 2005 as compared to net income of $15.6 million for the first quarter of 2004. First quarter 2005 net loss includes loss on debt extinguishment of $29.3 million, non-cash stock compensation of $6.4 million, compensation expense of $1.7 million related to IPO bonuses paid to our management team, and a current income tax benefit of $5.4 million.
VALOR's Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2005 was $68.4 million. This is compared to Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2004 of $66.9 million, an increase of 2.4%.
 
Cash Available to Pay Dividends
($ in millions)
During the quarter, the cash provided by operating activities was $40.5 million, and Pro Forma Cash Available to Pay Dividends was $29.3 million.
Key Operating Statistics
Access lines declined by 3,335 in the first quarter of 2005 to 537,002.
Access Lines
Access line losses in the first quarter were caused primarily by the following:
The company's average monthly revenue per access line for the first quarter of 2005 was $77.92 compared to $75.31 for the comparable period of 2004, an increase of 3.5%. The company's average revenue per access line per month for the first quarter of 2005 increased 2.1% sequentially to $77.92 from $76.31 for the fourth quarter of 2004 as adjusted for out-of-period revenue recorded in the fourth quarter.
 
OTHER HIGHLIGHTS
In February 2005, VALOR completed its initial public offering issuing shares of its common stock. In connection with the initial public offering VALOR also issued senior notes. VALOR used the proceeds from the initial public offering and the issuance of the senior notes to repay existing indebtedness. In March, the underwriters exercised the full over-allotment option granted to them by the selling stockholders which resulted in them purchasing an additional 4.4 million shares from the selling stockholders. The company received no proceeds from the exercise of the over-allotment.
Prior to our reorganization, most of the current subsidiaries of VALOR Communications Group were Limited Liability Companies that elected to be treated as disregarded entities for federal income taxes purposes. As a result, income taxes had a very limited effect on our financial statements for previous periods. Upon completion of our reorganization, VALOR Communications Group will file a consolidated corporate tax return and be subject to income taxes at a rate that approximates the statutory federal income tax rate. We have Net Operating Losses ("NOL's) of approximately $308 million that were contributed by our owners in connection with our reorganization and other future additional deductions of approximately $760 million consisting primarily of unamortized goodwill that we are allowed to deduct for federal income tax purposes. These two items will, subject to limitations under the tax code, serve to reduce our future taxable income. We also have cumulative book-tax differences that will reverse in the future of approximately $519 million.
With respect to union negotiations, VALOR and the Communications Workers of America (CWA) have reached a tentative agreement on a three-year collective bargaining agreement. The new agreement is subject to ratification by the CWA membership, and the company expects the results of the ratification vote in early May.
Non-GAAP Measures
The company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating its performance and liquidity. These include adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA) and "Cash Available to Pay Dividends". These non-GAAP financial measures are by definition not measures of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles and are not alternatives to operating income or net income reflected in the statement of operations or to cash flow as reflected in the statement of cash flows and are not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund all cash flow needs.
The company presents Adjusted EBITDA because covenants in its credit facility contain ratios based on this measure. A reconciliation of the differences between these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are included in the tables that follow.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined in the credit facility as: (1) consolidated adjusted net income, as defined therein; plus (2) the following items, to the extent deducted from consolidated adjusted net income: (a) interest expense; (b) provision for income taxes; (c) depreciation and amortization; (d) certain expenses related to our initial public offering of common stock, our recent debt recapitalization and the other transactions described in "Use of Proceeds" in our registration statement for our initial public offering of common stock
 
completed February 9, 2005; (e) other nonrecurring or unusual costs or losses incurred after the closing date of our new credit facility, to the extent not exceeding $10.0 million; (f) unrealized losses on financial derivatives recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 133; (g) losses on sales of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; and (h) all other non-cash charges that represent an accrual for which no cash is expected to be paid in a future period; minus (3) the following items, to the extent any of them increases consolidated adjusted net income; (v) income tax credits; (w) interest and dividend income (other than in respect of RTFC patronage distribution); (x) gains on asset disposals not in the ordinary course; (y) unrealized gains on financial derivatives recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 133; and (z) all other non-cash income.
Cash Available to Pay Dividends is defined herein as Adjusted EBITDA less the sum of (i) any item excluded from the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA that has been or will be settled in cash, (ii) cash interest expense, (iii) capital expenditures and (iv) cash income taxes.
VALOR considers Adjusted EBITDA and Cash Available to Pay Dividends as important indicators to investors in our common stock because they provide information related to our ability to provide cash flows to service debt, fund capital expenditures and pay dividends. If our Adjusted EBITDA were to decline below certain levels, covenants in our credit facility that are based on Adjusted EBITDA, including our interest coverage ratio and total leverage ratio covenants, may be violated and could cause, among other things, a default or mandatory prepayment under our new credit facility, or result in our inability to pay dividends. Adjusted EBITDA and Cash Available to Pay Dividends are not measures in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered a substitute for operating income (loss), net income (loss) or any other measure of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA and Cash Available to Pay Dividends should not be used as a substitute for our various cash flow measures (e.g., operating, investing and financing cash flows). The non-GAAP financial measures used by the company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.
While the company utilizes these non-GAAP financial measures in managing and analyzing its business and financial condition and believes they are useful to management and to investors for the reasons described above, these non-GAAP financial measures have certain shortcomings. In particular, Adjusted EBITDA does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures, since items such as debt repayments and interest payments are not deducted from such measure. Management compensates for the shortcomings of these measures by utilizing them in conjunction with their comparable GAAP financial measures. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and footnotes contained in our documents to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
VALOR Communications Group (NYSE:VCG) is one of the largest providers of telecommunications services in rural communities in the southwestern United States. The company offers a wide range of telecommunications services to residential, business and government customers, including: local exchange telephone services, which covers basic dial-tone service as well as enhanced services, such as caller identification, voicemail and call waiting; long distance services; and data services, such as providing digital subscriber lines. VALOR Communications Group is headquartered in Irving, Texas. For more information, visit .
About VALOR Communications Group
www.VALORtelecom.com
VALOR Communications Group ("VALOR") is a holding company and has no direct operations. VALOR was formed for the sole purpose of reorganizing our corporate structure and consummation of our offering in February 2005. VALOR's principal assets are the direct and indirect equity interests in its
 
subsidiaries. As a result, the historical consolidated financial results prior to the offering in February 2005 only represent VALOR Telecommunications, LLC.
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this press release regarding VALOR Communications Group's business which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see "Risk Factors" in the prospectus dated February 8, 2005, relating to the VALOR's initial public offering of common stock. VALOR's results for the period ending March 31, 2005 are subject to the completion and filing of its March 31, 2005 quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
 
Valor Communications Group, Inc. Consolidated Statement of Operations (in thousands) (Unaudited)
 
Valor Communications Group, Inc. Financial and Operating Data (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited)
 
Valor Communications Group, Inc. Non-GAAP Measures (in thousands) (Unaudited)
 
Valor Communications Group, Inc. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures (in thousands) (Unaudited)


