FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20060721172443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Changes in Control of Registrant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On July 17, 2006 (the "Closing Date"), Valor Communications Group Inc. ("Valor"), Alltel Corporation ("Alltel") and Alltel Holding Corp., then a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alltel ("Spinco"), consummated the previously disclosed spin-off of Spinco, which held Alltel's wireline telecommunications business, and the merger of Spinco with and into Valor.
     On the Closing Date, pursuant to the Distribution Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2005 (the "Distribution Agreement"), by and between Alltel and Spinco, Alltel consummated a series of preliminary restructuring transactions to effect the transfer to Spinco's subsidiaries of all of the assets relating to Alltel's wireline telecommunications business, and the transfer to Alltel's subsidiaries of all of the assets not relating to the wireline business. Following these preliminary restructuring transactions, and immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (as defined below), Alltel contributed (the "Contribution") all of the stock of the Spinco subsidiaries to Spinco in exchange for (i) all of Spinco's common stock, to be distributed to Alltel's stockholders pro rata in the spin-off as a tax free stock dividend (the "Distribution"), (ii) the payment to Alltel of a special dividend in the amount of $2,275,082,848 and (iii) the distribution by Spinco to Alltel of $1,746,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8.625% senior notes due 2016 of Spinco. In addition, Spinco assumed approximately $262,000,000 principle amount of long-term debt that had been issued by Alltel's wireline subsidiaries of which approximately $81,000,000 was immediately repaid.
     Immediately following the Distribution, and pursuant to the Merger Agreement dated December 8, 2005, by and among Alltel, Spinco and Valor (the "Merger Agreement"), Spinco was merged with and into Valor (the "Merger"), with Valor continuing as the surviving corporation. As a result of the Merger, each share of Spinco common stock distributed to a third party exchange agent for the benefit of Alltel stockholders in the Distribution was converted into the right to receive 1.0339267 shares of Valor common stock. As a result, Valor issued approximately 403 million shares of its common stock. In the aggregate, immediately following the Merger, Alltel's stockholders owned approximately 85% of the outstanding equity interests of the surviving corporation in the Merger, and the stockholders of Valor owned the remaining 15% of such equity interests. No fractional shares of Valor common stock were issued in the Merger. Stockholders of Alltel that would otherwise be entitled to receive a fractional share of Valor common stock in the Merger will instead be entitled to receive the cash value of such fractional share. Immediately following the Merger, Valor was renamed Windstream Corporation ("Windstream"), which began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on July 18, 2006 under the ticker symbol "WIN."
     On the Closing Date, Windstream issued a press release announcing the completion of the Merger. A copy of the Press Release issued by Windstream on the Closing Date is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Transition Services Agreements
     In connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Distribution Agreement and the Merger Agreement, Windstream, as successor to Spinco, and Alltel entered into as of the Closing Date, a Transition Services Agreement (the "Transition Services Agreement") and a Reverse Transition Services Agreement (the "Reverse Transition Services Agreement" and, together with the Transition Services Agreement, the "Transition Services Agreements"), pursuant to which Windstream and Alltel will provide each other with various services, including those relating to (a) information technology systems, (b) billing, (c) human resources, (d) customer service, (e) accounting and finance, (f) engineering and networking, (g) sales and marketing, (h) operations, (i) real estate, (j) branding, and (k) capital asset management, for a period of not more than one year, unless otherwise extended or terminated in accordance with the terms of such agreements.
     Pursuant to the Transition Services Agreements, Windstream and Alltel have agreed to indemnify each other for losses arising out of a default by the other party in the performance of its obligations under the Transition Services Agreements. Indemnification is limited to actual damages, which cannot exceed the amount of compensation payable to the provider of the services. The Transition Services Agreements may be terminated in whole or in part if among other things, (i) Alltel desires to terminate such agreements, upon 30 days' prior written notice to Windstream, (ii) Alltel fails to pay for transition services within 30 days of receipt of an invoice relating to such services, (iii) either party defaults in any material respect in the performance of the agreement, or (iv) either party becomes insolvent, bankrupt or a receiver or trustee is appointed for either party. In addition, the recipient of services has the right to terminate any transition service, in whole or in part, upon 30 days' prior written notice to the
Table of Contents
provider of such service. If the Transition Services Agreements are terminated, both parties must return any and all property of a proprietary nature involving the other party within 30 days.
     The foregoing descriptions of the Transition Services Agreement and the Reverse Transition Services Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of Transition Services Agreement and the Reverse Transition Services Agreement copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
Tax Sharing Agreement
     In connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Distribution Agreement and the Merger Agreement, Windstream, as successor to Spinco, and Alltel also entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement (the "Tax Sharing Agreement") that allocates the responsibility for (a) filing tax returns and preparing other tax-related information and (b) the liability for payment and the benefit of refund or other recovery of taxes, each effective as of the Closing Date.
     Pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement, Alltel has agreed to file or cause to be filed any consolidated, combined or unitary income tax return that (i) includes both Alltel and its affiliates and Spinco and its affiliates and (ii) relates to or includes any taxable period on or prior to the Closing Date. Windstream agreed to submit to Alltel any such income tax return that relates to or includes any taxable period on or prior to the Closing Date, and to make or cause to be made any and all changes requested by Alltel to those returns in respect of items for which Alltel has responsibility under the Tax Sharing Agreement. Windstream also agreed not to file or allow to be filed any such income tax return prior to receiving Alltel's written approval of such return, not to be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned.
     Windstream agreed to indemnify Alltel against: (i) any net liability for income taxes of Spinco or its affiliates attributable to the treatment of payments received from a federal or state universal services fund in respect of the wireline business for the period from January 1, 1997 to the Closing Date, (ii) any non-income taxes arising prior to the Closing Date of the Merger and relating to Spinco and its affiliates or to the employees, assets or transactions relating to Spinco's business, except for non-income taxes arising in respect of the preliminary restructuring of Spinco and its subsidiaries and the distribution of the stock of Spinco to a third party distribution agent for the benefit of the stockholders of Alltel, and (iii) any liability for taxes arising after the spin-off attributable to Spinco and its affiliates or to the employees, assets or transactions relating to Spinco's business.
     Alltel agreed to indemnify Windstream against any taxes of Alltel and its affiliates or Spinco and its affiliates, other than (i) taxes specifically allocated to Windstream under the Tax Sharing Agreement or (ii) taxes for which Windstream has indemnified Alltel pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Windstream and Alltel agreed that each is entitled to any refund of or credit for taxes for which it is responsible under the Tax Sharing Agreement, including equitably apportioned refunds for any taxable period consisting of days both before and after the Distribution. Pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement, all prior tax sharing or tax allocation agreements or practices between Alltel and its affiliates, on the one hand, and Spinco or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand, was terminated as of the Closing Date of the Merger.
     . Pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement, the parties agreed that tax attributes from a period after the Closing Date of the Merger will not be carried back by Windstream or any of its subsidiaries to a pre-closing date tax return unless required by law or Alltel so consents. If a carryback is required by law or if Alltel so consents, then any tax benefit realized with respect to the carryback will be remitted to Windstream. Windstream agreed not to file any amended income tax return of Spinco or its affiliates, or any non-income tax return that is filed on a combined basis with Alltel and its affiliates, in each case with respect to returns for periods prior to the distribution, without first obtaining the consent of Alltel.
Carrybacks and Amended Returns
     . Windstream and Alltel agreed to pay to the other the amount of any tax benefit that result from any timing adjustment that (i) decreases deductions, losses or tax credits or increases income, gains or recapture of tax credits of the other and (ii) permits the paying party to increase deductions, losses or tax credits or to decrease income, gains or recapture of tax credits.
Timing Adjustments
     . Windstream and Alltel agreed that Alltel and its affiliates will be entitled to claim all deductions resulting from the vesting of shares of restricted stock of Alltel issued prior to the Closing Date unless otherwise required by law, in which case Windstream will pay to Alltel the amount of any tax benefit realized by Windstream or its affiliates from any such deduction.
Deductions for Restricted Stock
Table of Contents
     . Windstream and Alltel agreed in principle to an allocation between Alltel and its affiliates and Spinco and its affiliates of deductions for certain costs and expenses related to the spin-off and the Merger and agreed that, if a cost or expense so allocated to Spinco is borne economically by Alltel, Windstream will pay to Alltel the amount of any resulting tax benefit.
Deductions for Transaction Expenses
     . Windstream and Alltel agreed to promptly notify the other party in writing upon receipt of a written communication from any taxing authority with respect to any pending or threatened audit, dispute, suit, action, proposed assessment or other proceeding concerning any tax return for which the other may be liable under the Tax Sharing Agreement. Windstream will have sole control of any income tax contest in respect of any return related exclusively to periods following the closing date of the Merger, while Alltel will maintain sole control of any other income tax contest of Spinco or its affiliates, provided that, in the case of a contest relating to income taxes for which Alltel is responsible under the Tax Sharing Agreement, Alltel will provide Windstream with an opportunity to review and comment and to participate in such tax contest at its own expense.
Tax Contests
     . Windstream and Alltel will cooperate in the filing of tax returns and the conduct of any audit or other proceeding related to taxes, as well as in the retention of tax-related records and access thereto. Each party also agreed to treat the Distribution, the Merger and the related transactions in a manner such that no gain or loss is recognized by any of Alltel, Spinco or Valor and their respective stockholders.
Cooperation
     The foregoing description of the Tax Sharing Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Tax Sharing Agreement which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and incorporated herein by reference.
Amended Securityholders Agreement
     On the Closing Date, Windstream entered into the First Amendment to Securityholders Agreement (the "Amended Securityholders Agreement"), by and among Valor and Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe and certain individuals affiliated therewith (which are collectively referred to herein as "WCAS"), Vestar Capital Partners and certain individuals affiliated therewith (which are collectively referred to herein as "Vestar"), and certain other stockholders of Valor. The Amended Securityholders Agreement provides that, among other things, (i) WCAS will agree not to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of Valor shares for a period of 90 days after consummation of the Merger and (ii) Windstream will file and use its reasonable best efforts to have declared effective an "evergreen" shelf registration statement permitting sales of securities of Windstream by WCAS and Vestar as soon as practicable after consummation of the Merger. WCAS and Vestar will have customary piggyback registration rights in connection with any registration by Valor of sales of its equity securities (other than on Forms S-4 or S-8).
     The foregoing description of the Amended Securityholders Agreement is summary in nature and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended Securityholders Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4 and incorporated herein by reference.
New Credit Facilities
     On the Closing Date, Spinco entered into new credit facilities providing for an aggregate amount of $3.3 billion in financing, consisting of a senior secured five-year revolving credit facility in a principal amount of $500 million (the "Revolver") and a senior secured term loan facility in an aggregate amount of $2.8 billion which consists of sub-facilities in the following amounts: (i) Tranche A Term Loan Facility  $500 million, (ii) Tranche B Term Loan Facility  $1.9 billion, and (iii) Tranche C Term Loan Facility  $400 million. The term loan facilities and the Revolver are referred to herein as the "New Credit Facilities." Following effectiveness of the Merger, Windstream executed an Assumption Agreement (the "Assumption Agreement") assuming the obligations of Spinco under the New Credit Facilities.
     Any amounts Windstream borrows under the Tranche C Term Loan Facility must be borrowed prior to November 17, 2006 and can only be used to purchase any of Windstream's outstanding 7.75% Senior Notes due 2015 that are tendered pursuant to the terms thereof in connection with the Merger. The Revolver will be available to pay fees and expenses in connection with the Merger, for working capital and for general corporate purposes and up to $30 million will be available for letters of credit.
Table of Contents
     J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, or their affiliates, together with Barclays Capital Inc., or its affiliates, and certain other lenders will serve as lenders and/or agents under the New Credit Facilities.
     . The Tranche A and Tranche C term loans will mature in five years and the Tranche B term loans will mature in seven years. The Tranche A and Tranche C term loans will be amortized quarterly according to the following schedule:
Maturity and Amortization
     The Tranche B term loans will be amortized quarterly with 0.25% of the loans being payable quarterly in equal installments in each quarter of the second through sixth years and the first three quarters of the seventh year, with the balance being payable at maturity.
     . Outstanding borrowings under the New Credit Facilities will accrue interest at (i) the base rate plus a fixed margin of 0.25% in the case of the Revolver, the Tranche A Term Loan Facility and the Tranche C Term Loan Facility and 0.75% in the case of the Tranche B Term Loan Facility or (ii) LIBOR plus a fixed margin of 1.25% in the case of the Revolver, the Tranche A Term Loan Facility and the Tranche C Term Loan Facility and 1.75% in the case of the Tranche B Term Loan Facility. Windstream will pay a commission on letters of credit issued under the New Credit Facilities at a rate equal to the LIBOR margin applicable to revolving loans.
Interest Rate and Fees
     Windstream will pay certain fees with respect to the New Credit Facilities, including: (i) a commitment fee of 0.25% per annum (subject to step-downs based on Windstream's leverage ratio) on the average daily amount of the unused Revolver and unused portion of the Tranche C Term Loan Facility, (ii) fronting fees at a rate of 0.25% per annum on letters of credit issued under the New Credit Facilities and (iii) customary annual administration fees.
     . Subject to certain conditions and exceptions, the New Credit Facilities will require Windstream to prepay outstanding term loans in an amount equal to 100% of the net proceeds from dispositions of assets and casualty insurance condemnation awards and similar recoveries in each case which are not reinvested within 1 year.
Mandatory Prepayments
     . The New Credit Facilities will provide for voluntary commitment reductions and prepayments of loans, subject to certain conditions and restrictions.
Voluntary Prepayments
     . The New Credit Facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict Windstream's ability (as well as those of its subsidiaries) to create liens and encumbrances; incur debt merge dissolve, liquidate or consolidate, make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; pay dividends or make other payments in respect of its capital stock; amend material documents; change the nature of its business; make certain payments of debt; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; enter into sale/leaseback or hedging transactions, and make capital expenditures.
Covenants
     In addition, the financial covenants under the New Credit Facilities will require Windstream to maintain certain ratios, including a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.75 to 1.0 and a maximum leverage ratio of 4.50 to 1.0.
Table of Contents
     . Windstream's obligations under the New Credit Facilities will be guaranteed by all of its current and future domestic subsidiaries, except any subsidiaries with total assets of not more than $5,000,000 (subject to an aggregate limit for all such subsidiaries of $25,000,000) and any subsidiaries for which state regulatory approval is required for the Merger or would be required for any guarantee, which include, without limitation, Windstream's regulated subsidiaries that operate in Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New York, North Carolina, Ohio and Pennsylvania as well as Windstream Communications Inc., which holds certain of Windstream's long distance and CLEC licenses. In addition, Windstream's obligations will be guaranteed by any other subsidiaries that guarantee Windstream's other debt obligations of any loan party under the New Credit Facilities. Each guarantee will be secured by substantially all of the tangible and intangible personal property assets of the applicable guarantor.
Guarantees and Collateral
     . The New Credit Facilities will contain customary events of default such as non-payment of obligations under the New Credit Facilities, violation of affirmative and negative covenants, material inaccuracy of representations, defaults under other material debt, bankruptcy, ERISA and judgment defaults, loss of material regulatory licenses, change of control and loss of lien perfection or priority or unenforceability of guarantees.
Events of Default
     The foregoing description of the New Credit Facilities and the Assumption Agreement is summary in nature and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the New Credit Facilities and the Assumption Agreement, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.5 and 10.6, respectively, incorporated herein by reference.
Indenture
     On the Closing Date, Windstream completed its private offering of $2,546,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its senior notes, which included $1,746,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 8 /% senior notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes") issued at 97.547% of par and $800 million aggregate principal amount of its 8 /% senior notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes" and, together with the 2016 Notes, the "Notes") at par.
5
8
1
8
     Windstream issued the 2016 Notes and the 2013 Notes pursuant to an Indenture dated July 17, 2006 (the "Indenture"), among Alltel Holding Corp. (now known as Windstream Corporation), the guarantors (as defined therein) and SunTrust Bank, as trustee (the "Trustee") as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated July 17, 2006 among Windstream, the additional guarantors named therein and the Trustee (the "First Supplemental Indenture"). Pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Notes are senior unsecured obligations of Windstream and will rank equally with Windstream's unsecured unsubordinated debt, senior to any of Windstream's subordinated debt and effectively subordinated to Windstream's secured debt to the extent of the assets securing such debt including all borrowings under the New Credit Facilities. Windstream's obligations under the Notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by all of Windstream's domestic subsidiaries that guarantee the borrowings under the New Credit Facilities.
     Interest on the 2016 Notes accrues at a rate of 8 /% per annum. Interest on the 2013 Notes accrues at the rate of 8 /% per annum. Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing on February 1, 2007. Windstream will make each interest payment to the holders of record of the Notes on the immediately preceding January 15 and July 15.
5
8
1
8
     The 2016 Notes will not be redeemable at Windstream's option prior to August 1, 2011. On or after August 1, 2011, Windstream may redeem all or a portion of the 2016 Notes upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices (expressed in percentages of principal amount), plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, thereon to the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on August 1 of the years set forth below:
2016 Notes.
     . At any time prior to August 1, 2009, Windstream may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2013 Notes at a redemption price of 108.125% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued
2013 Notes
Table of Contents
and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, thereon to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds from one or more equity offerings (as defined in the Indenture), provided that at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of 2013 Notes remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of each such redemption and each such redemption occurs within 90 days after the date of the related equity offering.
     At any time, Windstream may redeem all or part of the 2013 Notes upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice as a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus (ii) a make-whole premium as of the date of redemption, plus (iii) accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, thereon, to the date of redemption.
     Upon the occurrence of a change in control (as defined in the Indenture), each holder of the Notes may require Windstream to repurchase all or a portion of the Notes in cash at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, thereon to the date of repurchase.
Repurchase upon Change of Control.
     However, subject to certain exceptions, the New Credit Facilities limit Windstream's ability to repurchase the Notes prior to their maturity and also provides that certain changes of control with respect to Windstream would constitute a default under the New Credit Facilities.
     The Indenture contains covenants that limit, among other things, Windstream's and certain of its subsidiaries' ability to (1) incur additional debt and issue preferred stock, (2) make certain restricted payments, (3) consummate specified asset sales, (4) enter into transactions with affiliates, (5) create liens, (6) impose restrictions on the payment of dividends or make other distributions, (7) make certain investments, (8) merge or consolidate with another person, (9) make certain capital expenditures and (10) enter new lines of business. In addition, the financial covenants under Indenture will require Windstream to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio at 4.50 to 1.0 at the time of incurrence of additional indebtedness.
Other Covenants.
     The Indenture provides for customary events of default (subject in certain cases to customary grace and cure periods), which include nonpayment, breach of covenants in the Indenture, payment defaults or acceleration of other indebtedness, a failure to pay certain judgments and certain events of bankruptcy and insolvency. Generally, if an event of default occurs, the Trustee or holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a series may declare the principal of and accrued but unpaid interest, including additional interest, on all the Notes of such series to be due and payable.
Events of Default.
     The foregoing description of the Indenture, First Supplemental Indenture, 2016 Notes and 2013 Notes is summary in nature and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Indenture, First Supplemental Indenture, 2016 Notes and 2013 Notes, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Registration Rights Agreement
     In connection with the offering of the Notes, with respect to each series of Notes, Windstream has agreed pursuant to a Registration Rights Agreement, dated July 17, 2006 (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), among Windstream, the guarantors named therein, and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and Barclays Capital Inc. (the "Initial Purchasers") to file a registration statement (the "Exchange Offer Registration Statement") with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") with respect to a registered offer (the "Registered Exchange Offer") to exchange each series of Notes for new notes of Windstream (the "Exchange Notes") having terms substantially identical in all material respects to such series of Notes within 120 days of the date the Notes were issued (the "Issue Date"), and to use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), within 180 days after the Issue Date. The Exchange Notes will generally be freely transferable under the Securities Act.
     In addition, Windstream has agreed under certain circumstances to file one or more shelf registration statements to cover resales of the Notes. In the event that (i) applicable interpretations of the staff of the SEC do not permit Windstream to effect a Registered Exchange Offer, (ii) for any other reason the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated within 210 days of the Issue Date, (iii) an Initial Purchaser notifies Windstream following consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer that Notes held by such Initial Purchaser are not eligible to be
Table of Contents
exchanged for the Exchange Notes in the Registered Exchange Offer, or (iv) certain holders of the Notes are not permitted to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer or do not receive fully tradable Exchange Notes pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer, Windstream will, at its cost, (a) promptly file and use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause to become effective no later than 210 days after the Issue Date a shelf registration statement with the SEC covering resales of the applicable series of Notes and (b) use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep the shelf registration statement continuously effective for a period of two years after its effective date (subject to certain exceptions).
     If Windstream fails to satisfy these obligations and its other obligations as set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement, Windstream will be required to pay additional interest to the holders of the Notes. Windstream agreed that if: (i) it does not file an Exchange Offer Registration Statement with respect to a series of Notes with the SEC on or prior to the 120 day following the Issue Date, (ii) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective on or prior to the 180 calendar day following the Issue Date, or (iii) the Exchange Offer is not consummated or a shelf registration statement is not declared effective, in each case on or prior to the 210 day following the Issue Date, (any event described in (i) through (iii) being referred to individually as a "Registration Default"), then Windstream will pay additional cash interest on the applicable series of Notes. The rate of the additional interest will be 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of a Registration Default, and such rate will increase by an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period until all Registration Defaults have been cured, up to a maximum additional interest rate of 1.0% per annum. Windstream will pay such additional interest on regular interest payment dates. Such additional interest will be in addition to any other interest payable from time to time with respect to applicable series of Notes and Exchange Notes.
th
th
th
     The foregoing description of the Registration Rights Agreement is summary in nature and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Registration Rights Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.5 and incorporated herein by reference.
First Supplemental Indenture to Valor Indenture
     On the Closing Date, certain subsidiaries of Windstream entered into a First Supplemental Indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture") to that certain Indenture dated February 14, 2005 executed between Valor and the Bank of New York, as trustee, pursuant to which such subsidiaries unconditionally guaranteed the 7/% Senior Notes due 2015, previously issued by Valor, on the terms and conditions set forth therein.
3
4
     The foregoing description of the Supplemental Indenture is summary in nature and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Supplemental Indenture, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.6 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Amendment to Employee Benefits Agreement
     Alltel and Spinco entered into an Employee Benefits Agreement on December 8, 2005 to allocate assets, liabilities and responsibilities with respect to certain employee benefit plans, policies and programs between them as part of the spin-off of Spinco from Alltel and Merger to form Windstream. The Employee Benefits Agreement was amended on July 17, 2006 to provide that (i) the allocation to Spinco with respect to Alltel's incentive plans applies to both active and former wireline employees, (ii) Alltel restricted shares held by active and former wireline employees will vest on August 3, 2006 rather than on the Closing Date, and (iii) the obligations of certain designated former wireline employees under the Alltel Corporation Benefit Restoration Plan, Alltel Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and Alltel Corporation 1998 Management Deferred Compensation Plan will be transferred to Spinco, along with an amount of cash corresponding to the liabilities.
Executive Compensation Plans
     Pursuant to the Employee Benefits Agreement, as amended, Spinco was required to establish plans that are substantially identical to certain executive compensation plans maintained by Alltel prior to the spin-off and Merger. As a result, Spinco adopted on the Closing Date the following executive compensation plans:
Table of Contents
     The foregoing description of the amendments to the Employee Benefits Agreement and the adoption of the various Windstream executive compensation plans is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the agreements and plans filed as Exhibits 10.7, 10.8, 10.9, 10.11, and 10.12 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
Indemnification Agreements
     Effective as of the Closing Date, Windstream entered into an Indemnification Agreement (the "Indemnification Agreement") with each of the directors of Windstream, including Francis Frantz who serves as Chairman of the board and Jeffery Gardner who also serves as President & CEO, and each of the following additional executive officers of Windstream: Keith Paglusch  Chief Operating Officer, Brent Whittington  Executive Vice President & CFO, John Fletcher  Executive Vice President & General Counsel, Rob Clancy  Senior Vice President & Treasurer, Susan Bradley  Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Mike Rhoda  Senior Vice President, Governmental Affairs and Tony Thomas  Controller (collectively, the "Indemnitees"). The Indemnification Agreement provides the Indemnitees with indemnification to the fullest extent permitted by law and additional related rights as provided in the Indemnification Agreement.
     The foregoing description of the Indemnification Agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to a form of the Indemnification Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.13 and incorporated herein by reference.
Restricted Stock Grants
     Effective July 17, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Windstream approved forms of Restricted Share Agreements under the Windstream Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan for designated executives and non-employee directors. The restricted shares granted to designated executives will either, vest in three equal installments on August 1, 2007, August 1, 2008 and August 1, 2009 or vest in whole on August 1, 2009, depending upon the award granted. Notwithstanding the type of award granted, an award to a designated executive will follow immediately vest, upon the death or permanent disability of the grantee or if the grantee's employment with Windstream is terminated without cause (as defined in the agreement), or the grantee terminates his employment with Windstream for good reason (as defined in the agreement), in each case within the two year period immediately following a change in control of Windstream. The restricted shares granted to non-employee directors will vest if the grantee continues to serve on the Board for the
Table of Contents
period beginning on the date of grant and ending on the first anniversary of the date of grant or, if earlier, if the grantee dies or becomes permanently disabled while serving on the Board or a change of control of Windstream occurs.
     The above description of the forms of Restricted Share Agreements is qualified in its entirety by the full text of such agreements which are attached as Exhibits 10.14 and 10.15 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Non-Employee Director Compensation
     Effective July 17, 2006, pursuant to a benchmarking review of director compensation of comparable companies, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Windstream adopted a resolution regarding non-employee director compensation.
     Under the resolution, all non-employee directors will receive: (1) an annual cash retainer of $60,000, (2) a cash fee of $1,750 for each Board and committee meeting attended, and (3) an annual grant of $60,000 in restricted stock under the Windstream Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan. In addition, each non-employee director who serves as chair of a Board committee will receive the following indicated annual cash fee: audit committee chairperson  $12,500, compensation committee chairperson  $10,000 and governance committee chairperson $12,500.
     The above description is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Director Compensation Program that is filed as Exhibit 10.16 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On the Closing Date, Valor's bank facility under that certain Amended and Restated Credit Facility dated as of February 14, 2005 among Valor, certain of its affiliates as guarantors and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders and other agents party thereto (as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of August 9, 2005) was repaid in full. Approximately $781 million of secured loans was repaid in full with the proceeds of the New Credit Facilities.
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     On the Closing Date, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, by and among Alltel, Spinco and Valor, Alltel contributed Alltel's wireline telecommunications business and certain related business operations to Spinco and Spinco merged with and into Valor, with Valor becoming the surviving corporation in the merger. Immediately thereafter, the separate corporate existence of Spinco ceased and Valor changed its name to Windstream Corporation. As a result of the Merger, all of the issued and outstanding shares of Spinco common stock were converted into the right to receive an aggregate of approximately 403,000,000 shares of common stock of Valor, resulting in Alltel's stockholders holding 85% of the outstanding equity interests of Windstream immediately after the Merger and the stockholders of Valor holding the remaining 15% of such equity.
     Other than in respect of the Merger and the transactions related thereto, no material relationship exists between Windstream and Alltel and any of Alltel's affiliates, any director or officer of Alltel, or any associate of such director or officer. The description of the terms of the Merger is qualified in all respects by reference to the Merger Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 2.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     Valor's Registration Statement on Form S-4, as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2006 and amended by Amendment No. 1 to Form S-4 dated April 12, 2006, Amendment No. 2 to Form S-4 dated May 2, 2006, Amendment No. 3 to Form S-4 dated May 23, 2006, and Amendment No. 4 to Form S-4 dated May 26, 2006 (the "Registration Statement"), sets forth certain information regarding the Merger.
     The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is hereby incorporated into this Item 2.01.
Table of Contents
     The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K concerning the Indenture is hereby incorporated into this Item 2.03.
     The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K concerning the New Credit Facilities is hereby incorporated into this Item 2.03.
Item 5.01 Changes in Control of Registrant.
     The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K concerning the structure and effects of the spin-off and Merger and the related transactions is hereby incorporated into this Item 5.01.
     At the Effective Time, except for Mr. Anthony J. de Nicola, the Board of Directors of Valor resigned and the Board of Directors of Spinco along with Mr. de Nicola became the Board of Directors of Windstream. The Board of Directors of Windstream consists of the following eight individuals: Francis X. Frantz, Jeffery R. Gardner, Dennis E. Foster, William A. Montgomery, Jeffrey T. Hinson, Judy K. Jones, Frank E. Reed and Anthony J. de Nicola.
     At the Effective Time, the officers of Valor resigned and the officers of Spinco became the officers of Windstream as follows: Mr. Frantz became Chairman of the Board, Mr. Gardner became President and Chief Executive Officer, and Brent K. Whittington became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The other initial officers of Windstream consist of Keith D. Paglusch as Chief Operating Officer, John P. Fletcher as Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Michael D. Rhoda as Senior Vice President  Governmental Affairs, Robert G. Clancy, Jr. as Senior Vice President and Treasurer, Susan Bradley as Senior Vice President  Human Resources and Tony Thomas as Controller.
Board of Directors
     Listed below is biographical information for each person who is a member of the Board of Directors of Windstream as of the completion of the Merger.
     , age 52, was most recently Executive Vice President-External Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary of Alltel. Mr. Frantz was responsible for a number of Alltel's staff functions, including wireline wholesale services, federal and state government and legal affairs, corporate communications, administrative services, and corporate governance. Mr. Frantz joined Alltel in 1990 as senior vice president and general counsel and was appointed corporate secretary in January 1992 and executive vice president in July 1998. Prior to joining Alltel, he was a partner in the law firm of Thompson, Hine and Flory, where he represented Alltel in connection with various business transactions and corporate matters for the last several years of his 12-year tenure with that firm.
Francis X. Frantz
     Mr. Frantz is the 2005-2006 Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Executive Committee of USTelecom, a telecom trade association that represents over 1,000 member companies. He is a member of the Board of Trustees and the Executive Committee and Chairman of the Long-Range Planning Committee of Good Shepherd Ecumenical Retirement Center, a non-profit, ecumenical enterprise that provides affordable living arrangements to over 500 elderly.
     Mr. Frantz is an honors graduate of The University of Akron and of the Ohio State University School of Law, where he served on the Law Journal and was elected to the Order of the Coif.
     , age 46, was most recently the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Alltel where he was responsible for the finance and accounting functions for Alltel. His responsibilities included Alltel's capital markets, budgeting and forecasting, strategic planning, accounting, procurement, tax and operational
Jeffery R. Gardner
Table of Contents
support. Mr. Gardner has been in the communications industry since 1986 and joined Alltel in 1998 when Alltel and 360 Communications merged. While with Alltel, he held a variety of other senior management positions such as senior vice president of finance, president of the Mid-Atlantic Region, vice president and general manager of the Las Vegas market and director of finance.
     He is a member of the board of directors for RF Micro Devices, based in Greensboro, North Carolina, where he serves on the audit committee. He also serves on the board of the Arkansas Symphony Orchestra, the Arthritis Foundation and Pulaski Academy in Little Rock, Arkansas.
     Mr. Gardner earned a degree in finance from Purdue University and a graduate degree in business administration from William and Mary. He is a certified public accountant.
     , age 65, is a principal in Foster Thoroughbred Investments (thoroughbred racing, breeding and training operations) in Lexington, Kentucky, which he joined in June, 1995. Mr. Foster served as a director of Alltel from 1998 through April 20, 2006, where he most recently served as chairman of the Compensation Committee and a member of the Executive Committee. Prior to June 30, 2000, Mr. Foster served as Vice Chairman of Alltel. Mr. Foster is also a director of YRCW (Yellow Roadway Corporation Worldwide) and NiSource Inc.
Dennis E. Foster
     , age 57, has been a private investor since 1999. From 1989 to 1999, Mr. Montgomery was Chief Executive Officer of SA-SO Company, a company engaged in the distribution of municipal and traffic control products based in Dallas, Texas. Prior to 1989, Mr. Montgomery worked as a registered representative in the financial services industry, most recently serving with Morgan Stanley in the Private Client Services group from 1985 to 1989. He is also a director of Empress Hair Care, a private company that manufactures hair products based in Irving, Texas.
William A. Montgomery
     , age 51, is a financial consultant. Mr. Hinson served as a consultant to Univision Communications Inc., a Spanish language media company in the United States from July 2005 to December 2005. Mr. Hinson served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Univision Communications from March 2004 to June 2005. He served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Univision Radio, the radio division of Univision Communications, from September 2003 to March 2004. From 1997 to 2003, Mr. Hinson served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Hispanic Broadcasting Corporation, which was acquired by Univision Communications in 2003 and became the radio division of Univision Communications. Mr. Hinson is a director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Live Nation, which is a NYSE-listed company that was spun off by Clear Channel Communications, Inc. in December 2005.
Jeffrey T. Hinson
     , age 62, served as the Associate Vice President for Strategic Initiatives for the University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center from April 2004 to February 2006. She was Vice President for Advancement of the University of New Mexico from January 1998 to April 2004 and Chief of Staff to the President of the University from April 1988 to January 1998. She currently provides strategic and organizational planning services for public sector organizations in New Mexico and is a member of the Board of Directors of the Lovelace Respiratory Research Institute.
Judy K. Jones
     , age 71, is retired. Mr. Reed served as President and Chief Executive Officer of CoreStates Philadelphia National Bank from 1990 to 1995. Mr. Reed served as a director of Alltel from 1998 to 2005, where he served as Chairman of the Audit Committee from 1999 to 2005. He is also a director of Harleysville Group, Inc.
Frank E. Reed
     , age 41, has served as a director of Valor since March 2004 and as Chairman since April 2004. Mr. de Nicola is currently a general partner of Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, which is one of Valor's stockholders. He joined Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe in 1994 and focuses on investments in the information and business services and communications industries. Before joining Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, he worked for four years in the private equity group at William Blair & Company. Previously, Mr. de Nicola worked at Goldman, Sachs & Co. in the Mergers and Acquisitions Department. Mr. de Nicola is also a member of the boards of directors of Centennial Communications Corp., ITC Deltacom, Inc., R.H. Donnelly and several private companies.
Anthony J. de Nicola
     The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Windstream consists of the following directors: Messrs. Hinson and Reed, and Ms. Jones  with Mr. Reed as chairman.
Table of Contents
     The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Windstream consists of the following directors: Messrs. de Nicola, Foster and Montgomery  with Mr. de Nicola as chairman.
     The Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of Windstream consists of the following directors: Messrs. Foster, Hinson and Montgomery  with Mr. Foster as chairman.
Executive Officers
     Set forth below is certain information about the persons who will serve as the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal operating officer and principal accounting officer of Windstream as of the completion of the Merger.
     , Chairman of the Board. A brief description of Mr. Frantz's business experience during the past five years is included above in "Board of Directors".
Francis X. Frantz
     , President and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer). A brief description of Mr. Gardner's business experience during the past five years is included above in "Board of Directors".
Jeffery R. Gardner
     , age 35, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer), most recently served as senior vice president of operations support for Alltel. Mr. Whittington joined Alltel in 2002 as vice president for finance and accounting. Prior to joining Alltel, Mr. Whittington was with Arthur Andersen LLP for eight years, most recently serving as an audit manager. He has a degree in accounting from the University of Arkansas at Little Rock. He is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
Brent K. Whittington
     , age 48, Chief Operating Officer (principal operating officer), most recently served as Executive Vice President Operations for Global Signal Inc. Mr. Paglusch joined Global Signal in 2004. Prior to being employed at Global Signal he worked at Sprint Corporation for 18 years where he served in several executive level positions in the wireline, wireless, long distance and corporate organizations. He led the buildout of the Sprint PCS network, as SVP Operations, in addition to serving as President of Sprint E Solutions. Mr. Paglusch also worked for AT&T, Mountain Bell and Southwestern Bell. He has over 25 years of experience in the communications industry and is a graduate of Southeast Missouri State University.
Keith D. Paglusch
     , age 35, Controller (principal accounting officer), most recently served as vice-president of investor relations for Alltel. Mr. Thomas joined Alltel in August 1998 as director of revenue accounting. He has held various finance and accounting positions as well as operational roles. Prior to joining Alltel, Mr. Thomas was with 360 Communications until its acquisition by Alltel and was with Ernst & Young LLP for four years. He has a degree in accountancy from the University of Illinois and a MBA from Wake Forest University. He is also a certified public accountant.
Anthony W. Thomas
Item 5.03 Amendment to Certificate and Bylaws.
     On the Closing Date, the Certificate of Incorporation for Valor was amended and restated pursuant to the Merger Agreement. A comparison of the rights of stockholders and description of the changes to the Valor Certificate of Incorporation before and after the spin-off and Merger are included in the Registration Statement. On the same day, the Board of Directors of Valor merged a wholly-owned subsidiary of Valor into Valor and, in connection with such merger, changed the name of Valor from "Valor Communications Group, Inc." to "Windstream Corporation." After which Valor filed a Restated Certificate of Incorporation, reflecting the name change. A copy of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation is included as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registration Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In addition, in connection with the Merger, the Bylaws of Windstream were also amended and restated. A comparison of the rights of stockholders and description of the changes to the Windstream Bylaws before and after the spin-off and Merger is included in the Registration Statement. A copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws is included as Exhibit 3.2 to the Registration Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
     Effective on the Closing Date, Windstream adopted a new Code of Ethics (the "Code"). The Code applies to all Windstream employees, directors and officers, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and controller.
     The Code is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference, and is posted on Windstream's website at .
www.windstream.com
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     In connection with the closing of the Merger, Windstream relocated its corporate headquarters from 201 East John Carpenter Freeway, Suite 200, Irving, Texas 75062 to 4001Rodney Parham Road, Little Rock, Arkansas 72212. Windstream's new phone number is (501) 748-7000.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial statements of business acquired.
     The following report and audited financial statements of Spinco are incorporated herein by reference from the Registration Statement:
     The following unaudited financial statements of Spinco are incorporated herein by reference from the Registration Statement:
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
Table of Contents
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
July 21, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               dated as of July 17, 2006 among ALLTEL Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation, the initial Guarantors (as defined below) listed on the signature pages hereto and SunTrust Bank, a state bank organized under the laws of the State of Georgia, as Trustee.
INDENTURE
               The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its 8/% Senior Notes due 2013 (to be issued following the Merger (as defined below) and 8/% Senior Notes due 2016 as provided in this Indenture. The initial Guarantors have duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for a guarantee of the Notes and of certain of the Company's obligations hereunder. All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company and the initial Guarantors, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
5
8
1
8
               The Company (as defined below), the Guarantors and the Trustee (as defined below) agree as follows for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders (as defined below) of the Company's 8/% Senior Notes due 2013 and 8/% Senior Notes due 2016:
1
8
5
8
               Section 1.01. .
Definitions
               "" means a global note of either series substantially in the form of or , as applicable, bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee, that shall be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount at maturity of the Notes of such series sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Note
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-2
               "" means the 8/% Senior Notes due 2013 of the Company issued on the date hereof following the Merger and any Additional Notes of such series, including any Exchange Notes issued in exchange for Notes of such series. The 2013 Notes and the Additional Notes of such series (including any Exchange Notes issued in exchange therefor), if any, shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Indenture.
2013 Notes
1
8
               "" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, and Barclays Capital Inc., as Initial Purchasers of the 2013 Notes under the Purchase Agreement.
2013 Notes Initial Purchasers
               "" means the 8/% Senior Notes due 2016 of the Company issued on the date hereof and any Additional Notes of such series, including any Exchange Notes issued in exchange for Notes of such series. The 2016 Notes and the Additional Notes of such series (including any Exchange Notes issued in exchange therefor), if any, shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Indenture.
2016 Notes
5
8
 
               "" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as Initial Purchasers of the 2016 Notes under the Purchase Agreement.
2016 Notes Initial Purchasers
               "" means Indebtedness of a Person existing at the time such Person merges with or into or becomes a Restricted Subsidiary and not Incurred in connection with, or in contemplation of, such Person merging with or into or becoming a Restricted Subsidiary.
Acquired Debt
               "" means all additional interest owing on the Notes of a series pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
               "" means an unlimited maximum aggregate principal amount of the 2013 Notes and/or the 2016 Notes, as applicable (other than the Notes of the applicable series issued on the date hereof) issued under this Indenture in accordance with Sections 2.02 and 4.09 as part of the same series as either the 2013 Notes or the 2016 Notes, as applicable, and having the same terms in all respects as the Notes of the applicable series, or similar in all respects to the Notes of such series, except that interest will accrue on the Additional Notes from their date of issuance.
Additional Notes
               "" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control," as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with" shall have correlative meanings.
Affiliate
               "" means any Registrar or Paying Agent.
Agent
               "" means, with respect to a 2013 Note at any date of redemption, the greater of (i) 1.0% of the principal amount of such Note and (ii) the excess of (A) the present value at such date of redemption of (1) the principal amount of such 2013 Note at maturity (2) all remaining required interest payments due on such Note through maturity (excluding accrued but unpaid interest to the date of redemption), computed using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points, over (B) the principal amount of such 2013 Note.
Applicable Premium
plus
               "" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange.
Applicable Procedures
               "" means:
Asset Sale
 
               Interests in any of its Subsidiaries (other than directors' qualifying shares and shares issued to foreign nationals to the extent required by applicable law).
               Notwithstanding the preceding, the following items shall be deemed not to be Asset Sales:
               "" in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments
Attributable Debt
 
during the remaining term of the lease included in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended. Such present value shall be calculated using a discount rate equal to the rate of interest implicit in such transaction, determined in accordance with GAAP.
               "" means title 11 of the United States Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
               "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that in calculating the beneficial ownership of any particular "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), such "person" shall be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such "person" has the right to acquire by conversion or exercise of other securities, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition. The terms "Beneficially Owns" and "Beneficially Owned" shall have a corresponding meaning.
Beneficial Owner
               "" means:
Board of Directors
               "" means a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification.
Board Resolution
               "" means any day other than a Legal Holiday.
Business Day
               "" means, at the time any determination thereof is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at that time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligation
               "" means:
Capital Stock
 
 
               "" means Clearstream Banking S.A. and any successor thereto.
Clearstream
               "" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
               "" means, with respect to any Person, any Capital Stock (other than Preferred Stock) of such Person, whether outstanding on the Issue Date or issued thereafter.
Common Stock
               "" means ALLTEL Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation, prior to the Merger, and Windstream Corporation, a Delaware corporation, thereafter, until a successor replaces it pursuant to Article Five and thereafter means the successor.
Company
               "" means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the Consolidated Net Income of such Person for such period , without duplication:
Consolidated Cash Flow
plus
 
in each case, on a consolidated basis and determined in accordance with GAAP.
Notwithstanding the preceding, the provision for taxes based on the income or profits of, the Fixed Charges of and the depreciation and amortization and other non-cash expenses of, a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company shall be added to Consolidated Net Income to compute Consolidated Cash Flow of the Company (A) in the same proportion that the Net Income of such Restricted Subsidiary was added to compute such Consolidated Net Income of the Company and (B) only to the extent that a corresponding amount would be permitted at the date of determination to be dividended or distributed to the Company by such Restricted Subsidiary without direct or indirect restriction pursuant to the terms of its charter and all agreements and instruments applicable to that Subsidiary or its stockholders.
               "" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of:
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
 
               For purposes of this definition:
               "" means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the aggregate of the Net Income of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period, on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP; that:
Consolidated Net Income
provided
 
               "" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who:
Continuing Directors
               "" shall be at the address of the Trustee specified in Section 12.02 or such other address as to which the Trustee may give notice to the Company.
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee
               "" means that certain Senior Credit Agreement, dated as of the Issue Date, by and among the Company, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Syndication Agent, and the other agents and lenders named therein, including any related notes, Guarantees, collateral documents, instruments and agreements executed in connection therewith, and in each case as amended, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced or refinanced from time to time (including increases in the amounts available for borrowing thereunder), regardless of whether such amendment, restatement, modification, renewal, refunding, replacement or refinancing is with the same financial institutions or otherwise.
Credit Agreement
               "" means one or more debt facilities (including, without limitation, the Credit Agreement and indentures or debt securities) or commercial paper facilities, in each case with banks or other institutional lenders providing for revolving credit loans, term debt, receivables financing (including through the sale of receivables to such lenders or to special purpose entities formed to borrow from such lenders against such receivables) or letters of credit, in each case, as amended, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced or refinanced in whole or in part from time to time, including any refunding, replacement or refinancing thereof through the issuance of debt securities.
Credit Facilities
               "" means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto.
Custodian
               "" means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
               "" means a certificated Note of either series registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Sections 2.02 and 2.07, substantially in the form of or , as applicable, except that such Note shall not bear the Global Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto.
Definitive Note
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-2
 
               "" means, with respect to the Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified in Section 2.04 as the Depositary with respect to the Notes, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder and having become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Indenture.
Depositary
               "" means the Fair Market Value of noncash consideration received by the Company or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with an Asset Sale that is so designated as Designated Noncash Consideration pursuant to an Officers' Certificate, setting forth the basis of such valuation, less the amount of Cash Equivalents received in connection with a subsequent sale of such Designated Noncash Consideration.
Designated Noncash Consideration
               "" means any Capital Stock that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible, or for which it is exchangeable, in each case at the option of the holder thereof), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or is redeemable at the option of the holder thereof, in whole or in part, on or prior to the date that is 123 days after the date on which the Notes mature; that only the portion of Capital Stock which so matures or is mandatorily redeemable, is so convertible or exchangeable or is so redeemable at the option of the holder thereof prior to such dates shall be deemed to be Disqualified Stock. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any Capital Stock that would constitute Disqualified Stock solely because the holders thereof have the right to require the Company to repurchase such Capital Stock upon the occurrence of a change of control or an asset sale shall not constitute Disqualified Stock if the terms of such Capital Stock provide that the Company may not repurchase or redeem any such Capital Stock pursuant to such provisions unless such repurchase or redemption complies with Section 4.07. The term "Disqualified Stock" shall also include any options, warrants or other rights that are convertible into Disqualified Stock or that are redeemable at the option of the holder, or required to be redeemed, prior to the date that is 123 days after the date on which the Notes mature.
Disqualified Stock
provided, however,
               "" means any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company other than a Restricted Subsidiary that is (1) a "controlled foreign corporation" under Section 957 of the Internal Revenue Code (a) whose primary operating assets are located outside the United States and (b) that is not subject to tax under Section 882(a) of the Internal Revenue Code because of a trade or business within the United States or (2) a Subsidiary of an entity described in the preceding clause (1).
Domestic Restricted Subsidiary
               "" means any contingent consideration based on future operating performance of the acquired entity or assets or other purchase price adjustment or indemnification obligation, payable following the consummation of an acquisition based on criteria set forth in the documentation governing or relating to such acquisition.
Earn-out Obligation
               "" means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock).
Equity Interests
               "" means any public or private placement of Capital Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company to any Person (other than (i) to any Subsidiary thereof,
Equity Offering
 
(ii) as part of the Transactions and (iii) issuances of equity securities pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-8 or otherwise relating to equity securities issuable under any employee benefit plan of the Company).
               "" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear system, and any successor thereto.
Euroclear
               "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
               "" means the Notes of either series issued in the Exchange Offer in accordance with Section 2.07(f).
Exchange Notes
               "" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
               "" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
               "" means the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than Indebtedness under the Credit Agreement or under the Notes and the related Note Guarantees) in existence on the Issue Date after giving effect to the application of the proceeds of (1) the Notes and (2) any borrowings made under the Credit Agreement on the Issue Date, until such amounts are repaid.
Existing Indebtedness
               "" means the price that would be paid in an arm's-length transaction between an informed and willing seller under no compulsion to sell and an informed and willing buyer under no compulsion to buy, as determined in good faith by a responsible officer of the Company, whose determination, unless otherwise specified below, shall be conclusive if evidenced by an Officers' Certificate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the responsible officer's determination of Fair Market Value must be evidenced by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee if the Fair Market Value exceeds $25.0 million.
Fair Market Value
               "" means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the sum, without duplication, of:
Fixed Charges
 
in each case, on a consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP.
               "" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the opinions and pronouncements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and in the statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect on the Issue Date.
GAAP
               "" means the legend set forth in Section 2.07(g)(ii), which is required to be placed on all Global Notes of each series issued under this Indenture.
Global Note Legend
               "" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Notes of either series and the Unrestricted Global Notes of either series, substantially in the form of or , as applicable, issued in accordance with Section 2.01 or Section 2.07.
Global Notes
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-2
               "" means securities that are direct obligations of the United States of America for the timely payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged.
Government Securities
               "" means, as to any Person, a guarantee other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business, direct or indirect, in any manner including, without limitation, by way of a pledge of assets or through letters of credit or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof, of all or any part of any Indebtedness of another Person.
Guarantee
 
and their respective successors and assigns until released from their obligations under their Note Guarantees and this Indenture in accordance with the terms of this Indenture.
               "" means, with respect to any specified Person, the obligations of such Person under:
Hedging Obligations
               "" means a Person in whose name a Note of either series is registered.
Holder
               "" means, with respect to any Indebtedness, to incur, create, issue, assume, Guarantee or otherwise become directly or indirectly liable for or with respect to, or become responsible for, the payment of, contingently or otherwise, such Indebtedness (and "Incurrence" and "Incurred" shall have meanings correlative to the foregoing); that (1) any Indebtedness of a Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company shall be deemed to be Incurred by such Restricted Subsidiary at the time it becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company and (2) neither the accrual of interest nor the accretion of original issue discount nor the payment of interest in the form of additional Indebtedness with the same terms and the payment of dividends on Disqualified Stock or Preferred Stock in the form of additional shares of the same class of Disqualified Stock or Preferred Stock (to the extent provided for when the Indebtedness or Disqualified Stock or Preferred Stock on which such interest or dividend is paid was originally issued) shall be considered an Incurrence of Indebtedness; that in each case the amount thereof is for all other purposes included in the Fixed Charges and Indebtedness of the Company or its Restricted Subsidiary as accrued.
Incur
provided
provided
               "" means, with respect to any specified Person, any indebtedness of such Person, whether or not contingent:
Indebtedness
 
if and to the extent any of the preceding items (other than letters of credit and other than pursuant to clauses (4), (5), (6), (7) or (8)) would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of the specified Person prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the term "Indebtedness" includes (x) all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of the specified Person (whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by the specified Person) other than a pledge of Equity Interests of an Unrestricted Subsidiary to secure Non-Recourse Debt of such Unrestricted Subsidiary, that the amount of such Indebtedness shall be the lesser of (A) the Fair Market Value of such asset at such date of determination and (B) the amount of such Indebtedness, and (y) to the extent not otherwise included, the Guarantee by the specified Person of any Indebtedness of any other Person, that any obligation of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary in respect of minimum guaranteed commissions, or other similar payments, to clients, minimum returns to clients or stop loss limits in favor of clients or indemnification obligations to clients, in each case pursuant to contracts to provide services to clients entered into in the ordinary course of business, shall be deemed not to constitute Indebtedness. For purposes hereof, the "maximum fixed repurchase price" of any Disqualified Stock or Preferred Stock which does not have a fixed repurchase price shall be calculated in accordance with the terms of such Disqualified Stock or Preferred Stock, as applicable, as if such Disqualified Stock or Preferred Stock were repurchased on any date on which Indebtedness shall be required to be determined pursuant to this Indenture.
provided
provided further
               The amount of any Indebtedness outstanding as of any date shall be the outstanding balance at such date of all unconditional obligations as described above and, with respect to contingent obligations, the maximum liability upon the occurrence of the contingency giving rise to the obligation, and shall be:
 
               "" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Indenture
               "" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
               "" means the 2013 Notes Initial Purchasers and the 2016 Notes Initial Purchasers.
Initial Purchasers
               "" means any Subsidiary of the Company that has total assets of not more than $1.0 million and that is designated by the Company as an "Insignificant Subsidiary;" that the total assets of all Subsidiaries that are so designated, as reflected on the Company's most recent consolidating balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP, may not in the aggregate at any time exceed $10.0 million.
Insignificant Subsidiary
provided
               "" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, which is not also a QIB.
Institutional Accredited Investor
               "" means both BBB- or higher by S&P and Baa3 or higher by Moody's, or the equivalent of such ratings by S&P or Moody's, or, if either S&P and Moody's is not providing a rating on the applicable series of Notes at any time, the equivalent of such rating by another nationally recognized statistical ratings organization.
Investment Grade
               "" means, with respect to any Person, all direct or indirect investments by such Person in other Persons (including Affiliates) in the form of loans or other extensions of credit (including Guarantees), advances, capital contributions (by means of any transfer of cash or other property to others or any payment for property or services for the account or use of others), purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Indebtedness, Equity Interests or other securities, together with all items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Investments
               If the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries sells or otherwise disposes of any Equity Interests of any direct or indirect Restricted Subsidiary of the Company such that, after giving effect to any such sale or disposition, such Person is no longer a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, the Company shall be deemed to have made an Investment on the date of any such sale or disposition equal to the Fair Market Value of the Investment in such Subsidiary not sold or disposed of. The acquisition by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of a Person that holds an Investment in a third Person shall be deemed to be an Investment by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary in such third Person in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of the Investment held by the acquired Person in such third Person.
               "" means the date of original issuance of the Notes under this Indenture.
Issue Date
 
               "" means a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York or at a place of payment are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to remain closed.
Legal Holiday
               "" means a global Note of either series in the form of or , as applicable, bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount at maturity of the Notes of such series initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Legended Regulation S Global Note
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-2
               "" means the letter of transmittal to be prepared by the Company and sent to all Holders of the Notes of either series for use by such Holders in connection with the Exchange Offer.
Letter of Transmittal
               "" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent statutes) of any jurisdiction.
Lien
               "" means the merger of the Company and Windstream Corporation (which is an entity formed solely to hold the name "Windstream Corporation") with and into Valor, on the Issue Date, with the surviving entity changing its name to "Windstream Corporation".
Merger
               "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and its successors.
Moody's
               "" means, with respect to any specified Person, the net income (loss) of such Person, determined in accordance with GAAP and before any reduction in respect of Preferred Stock dividends, excluding, however:
Net Income
               "" means the aggregate cash proceeds, including payments in respect of deferred payment obligations (to the extent corresponding to the principal, but not the interest component, thereof) received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of any Asset Sale (including, without limitation, any cash received upon the sale or other disposition of any non-cash consideration received in any Asset Sale), net of (1) the direct costs relating to such Asset Sale and the sale or other disposition of any such non-cash consideration,
Net Proceeds
 
including, without limitation, legal, accounting, investment banking and brokerage fees, and sales commissions, and any relocation expenses incurred as a result thereof, (2) taxes paid or payable as a result thereof, in each case, after taking into account any available tax credits or deductions and any tax sharing arrangements, (3) amounts required to be applied to the repayment of Indebtedness or other liabilities secured by a Lien on the asset or assets that were the subject of such Asset Sale or required to be paid as a result of such sale, (4) any reserve for adjustment in respect of the sale price of such asset or assets established in accordance with GAAP, (5) in the case of any Asset Sale by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, payments to holders of Equity Interests in such Restricted Subsidiary in such capacity (other than such Equity Interests held by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof) to the extent that such payment is required to permit the distribution of such proceeds in respect of the Equity Interests in such Restricted Subsidiary held by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof and (6) appropriate amounts to be provided by the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries as a reserve against liabilities associated with such Asset Sale, including, without limitation, pension and other post-employment benefit liabilities, liabilities related to environmental matters and liabilities under any indemnification obligations associated with such Asset Sale, all as determined in accordance with GAAP; that (a) excess amounts set aside for payment of taxes pursuant to clause (2) above remaining after such taxes have been paid in full or the statute of limitations therefor has expired and (b) amounts initially held in reserve pursuant to clause (6) no longer so held, shall, in the case of each of subclause (a) and (b), at that time become Net Proceeds.
provided
               "" means Indebtedness:
Non-Recourse Debt
 
               "" means a Guarantee of the Notes pursuant to this Indenture.
Note Guarantee
               "" means the 2013 Notes and the 2016 Notes of the Company issued on the date hereof and any Additional Notes, including any Exchange Notes. The Notes of each series and the Additional Notes (including any Exchange Notes) of such series, if any, shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Indenture.
Notes
               "" means any principal, interest, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing any Indebtedness.
Obligations
               "" means the offering memorandum, dated June 28, 2006, relating to the 2013 Notes and the 2016 Notes.
Offering Memorandum
               "" means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, any Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary of such Person.
Officer
               "" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by at least two Officers of the Company, one of whom must be the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer or the principal accounting officer of the Company, that meets the requirements of this Indenture.
Officers' Certificate
               "" means an opinion from legal counsel who is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee (who may be counsel to or an employee of the Company) that meets the requirements of this Indenture.
Opinion of Counsel
               "" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
               "" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Participating Broker-Dealer
               "" means any business conducted or proposed to be conducted (as described in the Offering Memorandum) by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on the Issue Date and other businesses reasonably related thereto or a reasonable extension or expansion thereof.
Permitted Business
               "" means:
Permitted Investments
 
 
 
 
               "" means any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries issued in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, refinance, renew, replace, defease or refund other Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than intercompany Indebtedness); that:
Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness
provided
 
               "" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or other entity.
Person
               "" means, with respect to any Person, any Capital Stock of such Person that has preferential rights to any other Capital Stock of such Person with respect to dividends or redemptions upon liquidation.
Preferred Stock
               "" means the legend set forth in Section 2.07(g)(i) to be placed on all Notes issued under this Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
               "" means the Purchase Agreement dated as of June 28, 2006 among the Company, the Guarantors, the Selling Noteholders and the Initial Purchasers.
Purchase Agreement
               "" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
               "" means (1) with respect to the Notes issued on the Issue Date, the Registration Rights Agreement, to be dated the Issue Date, among Windstream Corporation (as successor to the Company), the Guarantors, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and Barclays Capital Inc. and (2) with respect to any Additional Notes, any registration rights agreement between the Company and the other parties thereto relating to the registration by the Company of such Additional Notes under the Securities Act.
Registration Rights Agreement
               "" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
               "" means a Legended Regulation S Global Note of either series or an Unlegended Regulation S Global Note of either series, as appropriate.
Regulation S Global Note
 
               "" means (1) non-current assets (including any such assets acquired by capital expenditures) that shall be used or useful in a Permitted Business or (2) substantially all the assets of a Permitted Business or a majority of the Voting Stock of any Person engaged in a Permitted Business that is or shall become on the date of acquisition thereof a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company.
Replacement Assets
               "," when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee (or any successor group of the Trustee) or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject, and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
               "" means a Definitive Note of either series bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Definitive Note
               "" means a Global Note of either series bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Global Note
               "" means an Investment other than a Permitted Investment.
Restricted Investment
               "" means the 40-day distribution compliance period as defined in Regulation S.
Restricted Period
               "" of a Person means any Subsidiary of such Person that is not an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
Restricted Subsidiary
               "" means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144
               "" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
               "" means Rule 903 promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 903
               "" means Rule 904 promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 904
               "" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
               "" means, with respect to any Person, any transaction involving any of the assets or properties of such Person whether now owned or hereafter acquired, whereby such Person sells or otherwise transfers such assets or properties and then or thereafter leases such assets or properties or any part thereof or any other assets or properties which such Person intends to use for substantially the same purpose or purposes as the assets or properties sold or transferred.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
               "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
               "" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as Selling Noteholders of the 2016 Notes under the Purchase Agreement.
Selling Noteholders
               "" means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Shelf Registration Statement
               "" means any Restricted Subsidiary that would constitute a "significant subsidiary" within the meaning of Article 1 of Regulation S-X of the Securities Act.
Significant Subsidiary
               "" means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of Indebtedness, the date on which such payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the original documentation governing such Indebtedness, and shall not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof.
Stated Maturity
               "" means any Indebtedness of the Company or any Guarantor which is subordinated in right of payment to the Notes or the related Note Guarantees, as applicable, pursuant to a written agreement to that effect.
Subordinated Debt
               "" means, with respect to any specified Person:
Subsidiary
               "" means the total assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, as shown on the most recent balance sheet of the Company prepared in conformity with GAAP but excluding the value of any outstanding Restricted Investments or Investments made under clause (12) of the definition of Permitted Investments.
Total Assets
               "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as in effect on the date on which this Indenture is qualified under the TIA.
TIA
               "" means the contribution of all of ALLTEL Corporation's wireline assets to the Company in exchange for the 2016 Notes and all of the stock of the Company, the distribution of such stock to ALLTEL Corporation's shareholders and exchange of the 2016 Notes for other debt securities of ALLTEL Corporation, the Merger, and the entry into the Credit
Transactions
 
Agreement and the borrowings thereunder on the Issue Date and the offering of the Notes each as described in the Offering Memorandum under the heading "Description of the Transactions."
          "" means the yield to maturity at the time of computation of United States Treasury securities with a constant maturity (as compiled and published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (519) which has become publicly available at least two Business Days prior to the date fixed for prepayment (or, if such Statistical Release is no longer published, any publicly available source for similar market data)) most nearly equal to the then remaining term of the 2013 Notes to maturity; , that if the then remaining term of the 2013 Notes to maturity is not equal to the constant maturity of a United States Treasury security for which a weekly average yield is given, the Treasury Rate shall be obtained by linear interpolation (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth of a year) from the weekly average yields of United States Treasury securities for which such yields are given, except that if the then remaining term of the 2013 Notes to maturity is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year shall be used.
Treasury Rate
provided, however
          "" means SunTrust Bank, until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture and thereafter means the successor serving hereunder.
Trustee
          "" means a permanent global Note of either series in the form of or 2, as applicable, bearing the Global Note Legend, deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and issued upon expiration of the Restricted Period.
Unlegended Regulation S Global Note
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-
          "" means one or more Definitive Notes of either series that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Definitive Note
          "" means a permanent Global Note of either series substantially in the form of or 2, as applicable, that bears the Global Note Legend, that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto, that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing a series of Notes, and that does not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Global Note
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-
          "" means any Subsidiary of the Company that is designated by the Board of Directors of the Company as an Unrestricted Subsidiary pursuant to a Board Resolution in compliance with Section 4.16 and any Subsidiary of such Subsidiary.
Unrestricted Subsidiary
          "" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(k) under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
          "" means Valor Communications Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Valor
          "" means the $400 million principal amount of 7/% Senior Notes due 2015 issued by subsidiaries of Valor prior to the Issue Date.
Valor Notes
3
4
          "" of any Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is ordinarily entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
 
          "" means, when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing:
Weighted Average Life to Maturity
Section 1.02. .
Other Definitions
Section 1.03. .
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
          Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.
 
          The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
     "" means the Notes and the Note Guarantees;
indenture securities
     "" means a Holder of a Note;
indenture security Holder
     "" means this Indenture;
indenture to be qualified
     "" or "" means the Trustee; and
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
     "" on the Notes means the Company, the Guarantors and any successor obligor upon the Notes or the Note Guarantees.
obligor
          All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by Commission rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them.
Section 1.04. .
Rules of Construction
          Unless the context otherwise requires:
Section 2.01. .
Form and Dating
             (a) . The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of or , as applicable. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Note
General
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-2
 
shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes shall be issued in registered form without interest coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.
          The terms and provisions contained in the Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture, and the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of this Indenture, the provisions of this Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
          (b) . The Notes of each series issued in global form shall be substantially in the form of or 2, as applicable, (and shall include the Global Note Legend thereon and the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto). The Notes of each series issued in definitive form shall be substantially in the form of or 2, as applicable, (but without the Global Note Legend thereon and without the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto). Each Global Note of each series shall represent such of the outstanding Notes of such series as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it represents the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes of such series from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes of such series represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Note of either series to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes of such series represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee or, if the Custodian and the Trustee are not the same Person, by the Custodian at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.07 hereof.
Global Notes
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-
          (c) . The Notes of each series offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Legended Regulation S Global Note, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Notes represented thereby with the Trustee, as custodian for The Depository Trust Company ("") in New York, New York, and registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary for the accounts of designated agents holding on behalf of Euroclear or Clearstream, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. Following the termination of the Restricted Period, beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Note of each series may be exchanged for beneficial interests in Unlegended Regulation S Global Notes of such series pursuant to Section 2.07 and the Applicable Procedures. Simultaneously with the authentication of Unlegended Regulation S Global Notes of either series, the Trustee shall cancel the Legended Regulation S Global Note of such series. The aggregate principal amount of the Regulation S Global Notes of each series may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, in connection with transfers of interest as hereinafter provided.
Regulation S Global Notes
DTC
          (d) . The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" and the "General Terms and Conditions of Clearstream Banking" and "Customer
Euroclear and Clearstream Procedures Applicable
 
Handbook" of Clearstream shall be applicable to transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Notes that are held by Participants through Euroclear or Clearstream.
          (e) . The 2016 Notes issued on the date of this Indenture shall initially be issued in the form of one or more Restricted Definitive Notes (the ""). The 2013 Notes issued on the date of this Indenture shall initially be issued in the form of one or more Restricted Global Notes, that such 2013 Notes may not be issued until the Merger shall have been consummated and a Supplemental Indenture in the form of shall have been entered into.
Form of Initial Notes
Initial 2016 Notes
provided
Exhibit E-2
Section 2.02. .
Execution and Authentication
          One Officer of the Company shall sign the Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
          If an Officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time a Note is authenticated, the Note shall nevertheless be valid.
          A Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee. Such signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under this Indenture.
          The aggregate principal amount of Notes of each series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
          The Company may, subject to Article Four of this Indenture and applicable law, issue Additional Notes of either series under this Indenture, including Exchange Notes. The Notes of each series issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes of such series subsequently issued shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Indenture.
          At any time and from time to time after the execution of this Indenture, the Trustee shall, upon receipt of a written order of the Company signed by an Officer of the Company (an ""), authenticate Notes of each series for (i) original issue in an aggregate principal amount specified in such Authentication Order and (ii) Additional Notes in such amounts as may be specified from time to time without limit, so long as such issuance is permitted under Article Four of this Indenture and applicable law. The Authentication Order shall specify the amount of Notes to be authenticated and the date on which the Notes are to be authenticated. In addition, the Trustee shall issue upon receipt of an Authentication Order other Notes issued in exchange therefor from time to time.
Authentication Order
          The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. An authenticating agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with Holders or an Affiliate of the Company.
 
Section 2.03. .
Methods of Receiving Payments on the Notes
          If a Holder has given wire transfer instructions to the Company, the Company shall pay all principal, interest and premium and Additional Interest, if any, on that Holder's Notes in accordance with those instructions. All other payments on Notes shall be made at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar within the United States of America unless the Company elects to make interest payments by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders.
Section 2.04. .
Registrar and Paying Agent
          (a) The Company shall maintain a registrar with an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange ("") and a paying agent with an office or agency where Notes may be presented for payment (""). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may appoint one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "Registrar" includes any co-registrar and the term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without prior notice to any Holder. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing of the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Indenture. If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar.
Registrar
Paying Agent
          (b) The Company initially appoints DTC to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Notes.
          (c) The Company initially appoints the Trustee to act as the Registrar and Paying Agent and to act as Custodian with respect to the Global Notes.
Section 2.05. .
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
          The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal, premium or Additional Interest, if any, or interest on the Notes, and shall promptly notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries) shall have no further liability for the money. If the Company or one of its Subsidiaries acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders all money held by it as Paying Agent. Upon any bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings relating to the Company, the Trustee shall serve as Paying Agent for the Notes.
Section 2.06. .
Holder Lists
          The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of all Holders and shall otherwise
 
comply with TIA Section 312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee at least seven Business Days before each interest payment date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Notes and the Company shall otherwise comply with TIA Section 312(a).
Section 2.07. .
Transfer and Exchange
          (a) . A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes shall be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if (i) the Depositary (A) notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Global Notes or (B) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and in each case the Company fail to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; (ii) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of Definitive Notes, subject to the procedures of the Depositary; that in no event shall the Legended Regulation S Global Note be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes other than in accordance with Section 2.07(c)(ii); or (iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes. Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (i), (ii) or (iii) above, Definitive Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. In addition, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be exchanged for Definitive Notes upon request of a Participant (for itself or on behalf of a beneficial owner) by written notice given to the Trustee by or on behalf of the Depositary in accordance with the customary procedures of the Depositary and in compliance with this Section 2.07. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.08 and 2.11 hereof. Every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.07 or Section 2.08 or 2.11 hereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note, except as provided in this Section 2.07. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in this Section 2.07(a); however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 2.07(b), (c) or (f) hereof.
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
provided
          (b) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
     (i) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend;
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
 
, , that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.07(b)(i).
provided
however
     (ii) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.07(b)(i) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar either (A) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or (B) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above; that in no event shall Definitive Notes be issued upon the transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Note other than in accordance with Section 2.07(c)(ii). Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 2.07(f), the requirements of this Section 2.07(b)(ii) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount at maturity of the relevant Global Notes pursuant to Section 2.07(i).
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes
provided
     (iii) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.07(b)(ii) above and the Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Note
     (A) if the transferee shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
Exhibit B
     (B) if the transferee shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in a Legended Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
Exhibit B
 
     (iv) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be exchanged by any Holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.07(b)(ii) above and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
     (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal (1) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (2) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (3) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business;
     (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
     (C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
     (D) the Registrar receives the following:
     (1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or
Exhibit C
     (2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar or the Company so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
          If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee shall
 
authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above.
          Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Note cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note.
          (c) .
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes
     (i) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes
     (A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
Exhibit C
     (B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
     (C) [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED];
     (D) [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED];
     (E) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than that listed in subparagraph (B) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable; or
Exhibit B
     (F) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof,
Exhibit B
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.07(i) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.07(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect
 
Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.07(c)(i) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
     (ii) . A beneficial interest in the Legended Regulation S Global Note may not be exchanged for a Definitive Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, except in the case of a transfer pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 903 or Rule 904.
Beneficial Interests in Legended Regulation S Global Note to Definitive Notes
     (iii) . A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note only if:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
     (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that (1) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (2) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (3) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business;
     (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
     (C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
     (D) the Registrar receives the following:
     (1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or
Exhibit C
     (2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note that does not
 
bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar or the Company so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
     (iv) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 2.07(b)(ii), the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.07(i), and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.07(c)(iv) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.07(c)(iv) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
     (d) .
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests
     (i) . If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
     (A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
Exhibit C
     (B) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
 
     (C) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an "" in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (2) thereof; or
offshore transaction
Exhibit B
     (D) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof,
Exhibit B
the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Note, and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the appropriate 144A Global Note, and in the case of clause (C) above, the appropriate Regulation S Global Note.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, exchanges of the Initial 2016 Notes by the 2016 Notes Initial Purchasers on the date of this Indenture for beneficial interests in one or more Restricted Global Notes shall not require the delivery of the certifications referred to in clauses (A) through (D) above.
     (ii) . A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note only if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes
     (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal (1) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (2) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (3) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business;
     (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
     (C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
     (D) the Registrar receives the following:
     (1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or
Exhibit C
 
     (2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to transfer such Note to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar or the Company so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
     Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 2.07(d)(ii), the Trustee shall cancel the Definitive Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Unrestricted Global Note.
     (iii) . A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Unrestricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Notes.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes
          If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (i), (ii)(B), (ii)(D) or (iii) above at a time when a Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
          (e) . Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.07(e), the Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.07(e).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes
     (i) . Any Restricted Definitive Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note if the Registrar receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes
 
     (A) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
     (B) [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED]; and
     (C) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
Exhibit B
Notwithstanding the foregoing, transfers of the Initial 2016 Notes to the Selling Noteholders or the 2016 Notes Initial Purchasers, in each case on the date of this Indenture, shall not require the delivery of the certifications and/or Opinion of Counsel referred to in clause (A) or (C) above.
     (ii) . Any Restricted Definitive Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
     (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that (1) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (2) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (3) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business;
     (B) any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
     (C) any such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
     (D) the Registrar receives the following:
     (1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or
Exhibit C
     (2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to transfer such Note to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar or the Company so requests, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
     (iii) . A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Notes may transfer such Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
            (f) . Upon the occurrence of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02, the Trustee shall authenticate (i) one or more Unrestricted Global Notes of the applicable series in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes of such series tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (x) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (y) they are not engaged in, and do not intend to engage in, and have no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (z) they are acquiring the Exchange Notes in their ordinary course of business and (ii) Unrestricted Definitive Notes of the applicable series in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Notes of such series accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer. Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Restricted Global Notes of the applicable series so accepted Unrestricted Global Notes of such series in the appropriate principal amount.
Exchange Offer
            (g) . The following legends shall appear on the face of all Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued under this Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
Legends
     (i) . Except as permitted below, each Global Note and each Definitive Note (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
Private Placement Legend
THIS NOTE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS NOTE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE OFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. THE
 
HOLDER OF THIS NOTE BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS NOTE HEREON (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS NOTE) (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE NOTES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A"), TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER (i) PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) PRIOR TO THE END OF THE 40 DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (E) PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND (ii) IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THIS NOTE IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF A HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
       Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Note or Definitive Note issued pursuant to subparagraph (b)(iv), (c)(iii), (c)(iv), (d)(ii), (d)(iii), (e)(ii), (e)(iii) or (f) to this Section 2.07 (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
       (ii) . Each Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Global Note Legend
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY
 
CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.07 OF THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.07(a) OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.12 OF THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
(h) . The Regulation S Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Regulation S Global Note Legend
THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S GLOBAL NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN).
             (i) . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.12 hereof. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes
             (j) .
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
     (i) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon the Company's order or at the Registrar's request.
     (ii) No service charge shall be made to a Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 2.11, 3.06, 3.08, 4.10, 4.14 and 9.05).
 
     (iii) The Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
     (iv) All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes shall be the valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
     (v) The Company shall not be required (A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes under Section 3.02 and ending at the close of business on the day of mailing, (B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part, (C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Note between a record date and the next succeeding interest payment date or (D) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Note tendered and not withdrawn in connection with a Change of Control Offer or an Asset Sale Offer.
     (vi) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, any Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     (vii) The Trustee shall authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02.
     (viii) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Registrar pursuant to this Section 2.07 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile.
     (ix) The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Note (including any transfers between or among depositary participants or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Note) other than to require delivery by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
     (x) Neither the Trustee nor any Agent shall have the responsibility for any actions taken or not taken by the Depositary.
Section 2.08. .
Replacement Notes
           (a) If any mutilated Note is surrendered to the Trustee or the Company and the Trustee receives evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Note, the
 
Company shall issue and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, shall authenticate a replacement Note if the Trustee's requirements are met. An indemnity bond must be supplied by the Holder that is sufficient in the judgment of the Trustee and the Company to protect the Company, the Trustee, any Agent and any authenticating agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced. The Company may charge for their expenses in replacing a Note.
          (b) Every replacement Note is an additional obligation of the Company and shall be entitled to all of the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with all other Notes duly issued hereunder.
Section 2.09. .
Outstanding Notes
          (a) The Notes of a series outstanding at any time are all the Notes of such series authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those reductions in the interest in a Global Note of such series effected by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions hereof, and those described in this Section as not outstanding. Except as set forth in Section 2.10, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Note; however, Notes held by the Company or a Subsidiary thereof shall not be deemed to be outstanding for purposes of Section 3.07(b).
          (b) If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.08, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a bona fide purchaser or protected purchaser.
          (c) If the principal amount of any Note is considered paid under Section 4.01, it ceases to be outstanding and interest on it ceases to accrue.
          (d) If the Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Subsidiary of the Company or an Affiliate of any of the foregoing) holds, on a redemption date or maturity date, money sufficient to pay Notes payable on that date, then on and after that date such Notes shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding and shall cease to accrue interest.
Section 2.10. .
Treasury Notes
          In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes of a series have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Notes owned by the Company, or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company, shall be considered as though not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in conclusively relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Notes that a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded.
Section 2.11. .
Temporary Notes
          (a) Until certificates representing Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, shall authenticate temporary Notes. Temporary Notes shall be substantially in the form of Definitive Notes but may have
 
variations that the Company consider appropriate for temporary Notes and as shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate definitive Notes in exchange for temporary Notes.
          (b) Holders of temporary Notes shall be entitled to all of the benefits of this Indenture.
Section 2.12. .
Cancellation
          The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee and no one else shall cancel all Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and shall dispose of canceled Notes in accordance with its customary procedures for the disposition of canceled securities in effect as of the date of such disposition (subject to the record retention requirement of the Exchange Act). Certification of the disposition of all canceled Notes shall be delivered to the Company. The Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes that they have paid or that have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
Section 2.13. .
Defaulted Interest
          If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Notes, it shall pay the defaulted interest in any lawful manner plus, to the extent lawful, interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of defaulted interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the date of the proposed payment. The Company shall fix or cause to be fixed each such special record date and payment date, that no such special record date shall be less than 10 days prior to the related payment date for such defaulted interest. At least 15 days before the special record date, the Company (or, upon the written request of the Company, the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company) shall mail or cause to be mailed to Holders a notice that states the special record date, the related payment date and the amount of such interest to be paid.
provided
Section 2.14. .
CUSIP Numbers
          The Company in issuing the Notes may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
provided
 
Section 3.01. .
Notices to Trustee
          If the Company elects to redeem Notes of either or both series pursuant to the optional redemption provisions of Section 3.07, they shall furnish to the Trustee, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, an Officers' Certificate setting forth (i) the clause of this Indenture pursuant to which the redemption shall occur, (ii) the redemption date, (iii) the principal amount of Notes to be redeemed and (iv) the redemption price.
Section 3.02. .
Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed
          (a) If less than all of the Notes of a series are to be redeemed at any time, the Trustee shall select the Notes of such series to be redeemed among the Holders of the Notes of such series in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Notes of such series are listed or, if the Notes of such series are not so listed, on a basis, by lot or in accordance with any other method the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate. In the case of Global Notes, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected in accordance with the Applicable Procedures. In the event of partial redemption by lot, the particular Notes of the applicable series to be redeemed shall be selected, unless otherwise provided herein, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date by the Trustee from the outstanding Notes of such series not previously called for redemption.
pro rata
          (b) The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Notes selected for redemption and, in the case of any Note selected for partial redemption, the principal amount at maturity thereof to be redeemed. No Notes in amounts of $2,000 or less shall be redeemed in part. Notes and portions of Notes selected shall be in amounts of $2,000 or whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000; except that if all of the Notes of a Holder are to be redeemed, the entire outstanding amount of Notes held by such Holder, even if not a multiple of $1,000, shall be redeemed. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, provisions of this Indenture that apply to Notes called for redemption also apply to portions of Notes called for redemption.
Section 3.03. .
Notice of Redemption
          (a) At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Company shall mail or cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a notice of redemption to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a redemption date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Notes or a satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
          The notice shall identify the Notes to be redeemed and shall state:
          (i) the redemption date;
          (ii) the redemption price;
 
     (iii) if any Note is being redeemed in part, the portion of the principal amount at maturity of such Note to be redeemed and that, after the redemption date upon surrender of such Note, a new Note or Notes in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the original Note shall be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Note;
     (iv) the name and address of the Paying Agent;
     (v) that Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price and become due on the date fixed for redemption;
     (vi) that, unless the Company defaults in making such redemption payment, interest, if any, on Notes called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date;
     (vii) the paragraph of the Notes and/or Section of this Indenture pursuant to which the Notes called for redemption are being redeemed;
     (viii) the CUSIP number, or any similar number, if any, printed on the Notes being redeemed; and
     (ix) that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP number, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Notes.
          (b) At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at its expense; , , that the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee, at least 45 days prior to the redemption date, an Officers' Certificate requesting that the Trustee give such notice and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as provided in the preceding paragraph. The notice, if mailed in the manner provided herein shall be presumed to have been given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice.
provided
however
Section 3.04. .
Effect of Notice of Redemption
          Once notice of redemption is mailed in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, Notes called for redemption become irrevocably due and payable on the redemption date at the redemption price. Interest, if any, on Notes called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date, unless the Company defaults in making the applicable redemption payment. A notice of redemption may not be conditional.
Section 3.05. .
Deposit of Redemption Price
          (a) Not later than 12:00 p.m. (noon) Eastern Time on the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, on all Notes to be redeemed on that date. The Trustee or the Paying Agent shall promptly return to the Company any money deposited with the Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Company in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the redemption price of, and accrued and unpaid interest on, all Notes to be redeemed.
 
          (b) If the Company complies with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, on and after the redemption date, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or the portions of Notes called for redemption. If a Note is redeemed on or after an interest record date but on or prior to the related interest payment date, then any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Note was registered at the close of business on such record date. If any Note called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender for redemption because of the failure of the Company to comply with the preceding paragraph, interest shall be paid on the unpaid principal from the redemption date until such principal is paid and to the extent lawful on any interest not paid on such unpaid principal, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01.
Section 3.06. .
Notes Redeemed in Part
          Upon surrender and cancellation of a Note of either series that is redeemed in part, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate for the Holder at the expense of the Company a new Note of such series equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Note surrendered. No Notes in denominations of $2,000 or less shall be redeemed in part.
Section 3.07. .
Optional Redemption
          (a) The Company shall not have the option to redeem the 2016 Notes prior to August 1, 2011. On or after August 1, 2011, the Company may redeem all or a part of the 2016 Notes upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, thereon, to the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August of the years indicated below:
          (b) At any time prior to August 1, 2009, the Company may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2013 Notes issued hereunder (including any Additional Notes of such series) at a redemption price of 108.125% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, thereon to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more Equity Offerings; that (1) at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2013 Notes issued under this Indenture (including any Additional Notes of such series) remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption (excluding 2013 Notes held by the Company or its Subsidiaries); and (2) the redemption must occur within 90 days of the date of the closing of such Equity Offering.
provided
 
          (c) At any time, the Company may redeem all or part of the 2013 Notes upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) 100% of the principal amount thereof, (ii) the Applicable Premium as of the date of redemption, (iii) accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to the date of redemption.
plus
plus
          (d) Any redemption pursuant to this Section 3.07 shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Sections 3.01 through 3.06.
Section 3.08. .
Repurchase Offers
          In the event that, pursuant to Section 4.10 or Section 4.14, the Company shall be required to commence an offer to all Holders to purchase all or a portion of their respective Notes (a ""), they shall follow the procedures specified in such Sections and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the procedures specified below.
Repurchase Offer
          The Repurchase Offer shall remain open for a period of no less than 30 days and no more than 60 days following its commencement, except to the extent that a longer period is required by applicable law (the ""). No later than three Business Days after the termination of the Offer Period (the ""), the Company shall purchase the principal amount of Notes required to be purchased pursuant to Section 4.10 or 4.14 hereof (the "") or, if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes tendered in response to the Repurchase Offer. Payment for any Notes so purchased shall be made in the same manner as interest payments are made.
Offer Period
Purchase Date
Offer Amount
          If the Purchase Date is on or after an interest record date and on or before the related interest payment date, any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name a Note is registered at the close of business on such record date, and no additional interest shall be payable to Holders who tender Notes pursuant to the Repurchase Offer.
          Upon the commencement of a Repurchase Offer, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to the Trustee and each of the Holders, with a copy to the Trustee. The notice shall contain all instructions and materials necessary to enable such Holders to tender Notes pursuant to the Repurchase Offer. The Repurchase Offer shall be made to all Holders. The notice, which shall govern the terms of the Repurchase Offer, shall state:
     (i) that the Repurchase Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 3.08 and Section 4.10 or Section 4.14 hereof, and the length of time the Repurchase Offer shall remain open;
     (ii) the Offer Amount, the purchase price and the Purchase Date;
     (iii) that any Note not tendered or accepted for payment shall continue to accrue interest and Additional Interest, if any;
     (iv) that, unless the Company defaults in making such payment, any Note (or portion thereof) accepted for payment pursuant to the Repurchase Offer shall cease to accrue interest and Additional Interest, if any, after the Purchase Date;
 
     (v) that Holders electing to have a Note purchased pursuant to a Repurchase Offer may elect to have Notes purchased in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000;
     (vi) that Holders electing to have a Note purchased pursuant to any Repurchase Offer shall be required to surrender the Note, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Note completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Company, a depositary, if appointed by the Company, or a Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice at least three days before the Purchase Date;
     (vii) that Holders shall be entitled to withdraw their election if the Company, the Depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, receives, not later than the expiration of the Offer Period, a facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of the Note the Holder delivered for purchase and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have such Note purchased;
     (viii) that, if the aggregate amount of Notes surrendered by Holders exceeds the Offer Amount, the Trustee shall, subject in the case of a Repurchase Offer made pursuant to Section 4.10 to the provisions of Section 4.10, select the Notes to be purchased on a pro rata basis (with such adjustments as may be deemed appropriate by the Trustee so that only Notes in denominations of $2,000, or integral multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000, shall be purchased); and
     (ix) that Holders whose Notes were purchased only in part shall be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered (or transferred by book-entry transfer).
          On the Purchase Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, subject in the case of a Repurchase Offer made pursuant to Section 4.10 to the provisions of Section 4.10, accept for payment on a pro rata basis to the extent necessary, the Offer Amount of Notes (or portions thereof) tendered pursuant to the Repurchase Offer, or if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes tendered, and shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such Notes (or portions thereof) were accepted for payment by the Company in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.08. The Company, the Depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall promptly (but in any case not later than three days after the Purchase Date) mail or deliver to each tendering Holder an amount equal to the purchase price of Notes tendered by such Holder, as the case may be, and accepted by the Company for purchase, and the Company shall promptly issue a new Note. The Trustee, upon written request from the Company shall authenticate and mail or deliver such new Note to such Holder, in a principal amount equal to any unpurchased portion of the Note surrendered. Any Note not so accepted shall be promptly mailed or delivered by the Company to the respective Holder thereof. The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Repurchase Offer on the Purchase Date.
          The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws or regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes pursuant to a
 
Repurchase Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with Section 3.08, 4.10 or 4.14, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under Section 3.08, 4.10 or 4.14 by virtue of such compliance.
Section 3.09. .
No Sinking Fund
          The Company is not required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
Section 4.01. .
Payment of Notes
          (a) The Company shall pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Notes. Principal, premium, if any, and interest shall be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent, if other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries, holds as of 12:00 p.m. (noon) Eastern Time on the due date money deposited by the Company in immediately available funds and designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium, if any, and interest then due. The Company shall pay all Additional Interest, if any, in the same manner on the dates and in the amounts set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
          (b) The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to 1% per annum in excess of the then applicable interest rate on the Notes to the extent lawful; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest, and Additional Interest (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful.
Section 4.02. .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
          (a) The Company shall maintain in the United States of America an office or agency (which may be an office of the Trustee or Registrar or agent of the Trustee or Registrar) where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.
          (b) The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of their obligation to maintain an office or agency in the United States of America for such purposes. The Company shall give prompt
provided
however
 
written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
          (c) The Company hereby designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as one such office or agency of the Company in accordance with Section 2.04 of this Indenture.
Section 4.03. .
Reports
          (a) The Company shall furnish to the Trustee and, upon request, to beneficial owners and prospective investors a copy of all of the information and reports referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) below within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and regulations:
     (i) all quarterly and annual financial information that would be required to be contained in a filing with the Commission on Forms 10-Q and 10-K if the Company were required to file such Forms, including a "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and, with respect to the annual information only, a report on the annual financial statements by the Company's certified independent accountants; and
     (ii) all current reports that would be required to be filed with the Commission on Form 8-K if the Company were required to file such reports.
          Whether or not required by the Commission, the Company shall comply with the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and shall file the reports specified in Section 4.03(a)(i) and Section 4.03(a)(ii) with the Commission within the time periods specified above unless the Commission shall not accept such a filing. The Company agrees that it shall not take any action for the purpose of causing the Commission not to accept any such filings. If, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Commission shall not accept the Company's filings for any reason, the Company shall post the reports referred to in the preceding paragraph on its website within the time periods that would apply if the Company were required to file those reports with the Commission.
          (b) If the Company has designated any of its Subsidiaries as Unrestricted Subsidiaries, then the quarterly and annual financial information required by this Section 4.03 shall include a reasonably detailed presentation, either on the face of the financial statements or in the footnotes thereto, and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," of the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries separate from the financial condition and results of operations of the Company's Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
          (c) The Company and the Guarantors, for so long as any Notes remain outstanding, shall furnish to the Holders and to prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
          (d) Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee pursuant to the provisions of this Section 4.03 is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or
 
determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
Section 4.04. .
Compliance Certificate
          (a) The Company and each Guarantor (to the extent that such Guarantor is so required under the TIA) shall deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, an Officers' Certificate stating that a review of the activities of the Company's and its Subsidiaries during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing Officers with a view to determining whether the Company and Guarantors have kept, observed, performed and fulfilled their obligations under this Indenture, and further stating, as to each such Officer signing such certificate, that to his or her knowledge, the Company and Guarantors have kept, observed, performed and fulfilled their obligations under this Indenture and are not in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (or, if a Default or Event of Default shall have occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default of which he or she may have knowledge and what action the Company and the Guarantors are taking or propose to take with respect thereto) and that to his or her knowledge no event has occurred and remains in existence by reason of which payments on account of the principal of or interest, if any, on the Notes of either series is prohibited or if such event has occurred, a description of the event and what action the Company and the Guarantors are taking or propose to take with respect thereto.
          (b) So long as not contrary to the then current recommendations of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the year-end financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 4.03(a)(i) above shall be accompanied by a written statement of the Company's independent public accountants (which shall be a firm of established national reputation) that in making the examination necessary for certification of such financial statements, nothing has come to their attention that would lead them to believe that the Company or the Guarantors have failed to comply with the provisions of Article Four or Article Five hereof in so far as they relate to financial or accounting matters or, if an event of noncompliance has come to their attention, specifying the nature and period of existence thereof, it being understood that such accountants shall not be liable directly or indirectly to any Person for any failure to obtain knowledge of any such violation.
          (c) The Company shall, so long as any of the Notes of either series are outstanding, deliver to the Trustee, within 30 days after any Officer becomes aware of any Default or Event of Default with respect to such series, an Officers' Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Company and the Guarantors are taking or propose to take with respect thereto.
Section 4.05. .
Taxes
          The Company shall pay, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay, prior to delinquency, any taxes, assessments, and governmental levies except such as are contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to effect such payment is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes.
 
Section 4.06. .
Stay, Extension and Usury Laws
          Each of the Company and Guarantors covenant (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it shall not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and each of the Company and Guarantors (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waive all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it shall not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted.
Section 4.07. .
Restricted Payments
          (a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly:
     (i) declare or pay (without duplication) any dividend or make any other payment or distribution on account of the Company's or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries' Equity Interests (including, without limitation, any payment in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) or to the direct or indirect holders of the Company's or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries' Equity Interests in their capacity as such (other than dividends, payments or distributions (x) payable in Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company or (y) to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company);
     (ii) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or retire for value (including, without limitation, in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) any Equity Interests of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof held by Persons other than the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
     (iii) make any payment on or with respect to, or purchase, redeem, defease or otherwise acquire or retire for value Subordinated Debt, except (a) a payment of interest or principal at the Stated Maturity thereof or (b) the purchase, repurchase or other acquisition of any such Indebtedness in anticipation of satisfying a sinking fund obligation, principal installment or final maturity, in each case due within one year of the date of such purchase, repurchase or other acquisition; or
     (iv) make any Restricted Investment
(all such payments and other actions set forth in Section 4.07(a)(i) through (iv) above being collectively referred to as ""),
Restricted Payments
unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such Restricted Payment:
     (A) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would occur as a consequence thereof;
 
     (B) the Company would, after giving pro forma effect to such Restricted Payment as if such Restricted Payment had been made at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, have been permitted to Incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Consolidated Leverage Ratio test set forth in Section 4.09(a); and
     (C) such Restricted Payment, together with the aggregate amount of all other Restricted Payments made by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on or after the Issue Date (excluding Restricted Payments permitted by clauses (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (8), (9) (only in connection with any calculation made for purposes of making a Restricted Payment on or prior to the first anniversary of the Issue Date; any payments made under such clause (9), even prior to such first anniversary, will be included as Restricted Payments for purposes of making any calculation after such first anniversary), (10) and (11) of Section 4.07(b)), is less than the sum, without duplication, of:
     (1) an amount equal to the Company's Consolidated Cash Flow for the period (taken as one accounting period) from the beginning of the first fiscal quarter commencing after the Issue Date to the end of the Company's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which internal financial statements are available (the "") less 1.4 times the Company's Fixed Charges for the Basket Period,
Basket Period
plus
     (2) 100% of the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Company after the Issue Date as a contribution to its common equity capital or from the issue or sale of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company or from the Incurrence of Indebtedness (including the issuance of Disqualified Stock) of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that has been converted into or exchanged for such Equity Interests (other than Equity Interests sold to, or Indebtedness held by, a Subsidiary of the Company and except to the extent converted into or exchanged for Disqualified Stock),
plus
     (3) with respect to Restricted Investments made by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries after the Issue Date pursuant to this Section 4.07(a), (i) the aggregate amount of cash equal to the return from such Restricted Investments in any Person resulting from repayments of loans or advances, or other transfers of assets, in each case to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or from the net proceeds received in cash from the sale of any such Restricted Investment (except, in each case, to the extent any such payment or proceeds are included in the calculation of Consolidated Net Income) or (ii) in the case of redesignations of Unrestricted Subsidiaries as Restricted Subsidiaries, the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Investments therein at the time of such redesignation.
 
          (b) Section 4.07(a) shall not prohibit, so long as, in the case of Section 4.07(b)(5), (7) and (8), no Default has occurred and is continuing or would be caused thereby:
     (1) the payment of any dividend within 60 days after the date of declaration thereof, if at said date of declaration such payment would have complied with the provisions of this Indenture;
     (2) the payment of any dividend or other distribution by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the holders of its Equity Interests on a pro rata basis;
     (3) the making of any Restricted Payment in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of a contribution to the common equity of the Company or a substantially concurrent sale (other than to a Subsidiary of the Company) of, Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company; that the amount of any such net cash proceeds that are utilized for any such Restricted Payment shall be excluded from Section 4.07(a)(C)(2);
provided
     (4) the defeasance, redemption, repurchase or other acquisition of Indebtedness subordinated to the Notes or the Note Guarantees with the net cash proceeds from an Incurrence of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness;
     (5) the declaration and payment of dividends or distributions to holders of any class or series of Disqualified Stock of the Company or any Preferred Stock of its Restricted Subsidiaries issued or incurred in accordance with Section 4.09;
     (6) the repurchase of Equity Interests deemed to occur upon the exercise of options or warrants to the extent that such Equity Interests represent all or a portion of the exercise price thereof;
     (7) the repurchase of Equity Interests of the Company constituting fractional shares in an aggregate amount since the Issue Date not to exceed $300,000;
     (8) the repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of any Equity Interests of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries held by any current or former employee, consultant or director of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries pursuant to the terms of any employee equity subscription agreement, stock option agreement or similar agreement; that the aggregate price paid for all such repurchased, redeemed, acquired or retired Equity Interests in any fiscal year shall not exceed the sum of: (i) $20.0 million, with unused amounts pursuant to this subclause (i) being carried over to succeeding fiscal years; (ii) the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Company since the Issue Date as a contribution to its common equity capital or from the issue or sale of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company to any current or former employee, consultant or director of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; that the amount of any such net cash proceeds that are used to permit a repurchase, redemption or other acquisition under this subclause (ii) shall be excluded from Section 4.07(a)(C)(2);
provided
plus
provided
 
     (9) dividends paid by the Company on its Common Stock in an amount not to exceed $237.5 million in the aggregate for the first two quarterly dividend payments immediately following the Issue Date and any dividend declared by Valor, prior to the Issue Date and paid thereafter;
     (10) the repurchase of any Subordinated Debt at a purchase price not greater than 101% of the principal amount thereof in the event of (x) a change of control pursuant to a provision no more favorable to the holders thereof than Section 4.14 hereof or (y) an Asset Sale pursuant to a provision no more favorable to the holders thereof than Section 4.10 hereof, provided that, in each case, prior to the repurchase, the Company has made a Change of Control Offer or Asset Sale Offer, as the case may be, and repurchased all Notes issued under the Indenture that were validly tendered for payment in connection therewith;
     (11) Restricted Payments made on the Issue Date as part of the Transactions, as described in the Offering Memorandum under "Description of the Transactions"; and
     (12) other Restricted Payments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50.0 million.
          (c) The amount of all Restricted Payments (other than cash) shall be the Fair Market Value on the date of the Restricted Payment of the asset(s) or securities proposed to be transferred or issued to or by the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, pursuant to the Restricted Payment. Not later than the date of making any Restricted Payment, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such Restricted Payment is permitted and setting forth the basis upon which the calculations required by this Section 4.07 were computed, together with a copy of any opinion or appraisal required by this Indenture.
Section 4.08. .
Dividend and Other Payment Restrictions Affecting Restricted Subsidiaries
          (a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create or permit to exist or become effective any consensual encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to:
     (i) pay dividends or make any other distributions on its Capital Stock (or with respect to any other interest or participation in, or measured by, its profits) to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or pay any liabilities owed to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
     (ii) make loans or advances to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; or
     (iii) transfer any of its properties or assets to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries.
          (b) However, the preceding restrictions shall not apply to encumbrances or restrictions:
 
     (i) existing under, by reason of or with respect to the Credit Agreement, Existing Indebtedness or any other agreements in effect on the Issue Date and any amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, extensions, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings thereof, that the encumbrances and restrictions in any such amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, extensions, supplements, refundings, replacement or refinancings are, in the good faith judgment of the Company's Board of Directors, no more restrictive, taken as a whole, than those contained in the Credit Agreement, Existing Indebtedness or such other agreements, as the case may be, as in effect on the Issue Date;
provided
     (ii) set forth in this Indenture, the Notes and the Note Guarantees;
     (iii) existing under, by reason of or with respect to applicable law, rule regulation or order;
     (iv) with respect to any Person or the property or assets of a Person acquired by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries existing at the time of such acquisition and not incurred in connection with or in contemplation of such acquisition, which encumbrance or restriction is not applicable to any Person or the properties or assets of any Person, other than the Person, or the property or assets of the Person, so acquired and any amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, extensions, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings thereof, that the encumbrances and restrictions in any such amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, extensions, supplements, refundings, replacement or refinancings are no more restrictive, taken as a whole, than those in effect on the date of the acquisition;
provided
     (v) in the case of Section 4.08(a)(iii):
     (1) that restrict in a customary manner the subletting, assignment or transfer of any property or asset that is a lease, license, conveyance or contract or similar property or asset,
     (2) existing by virtue of any transfer of, agreement to transfer, option or right with respect to, or Lien on, any property or assets of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof not otherwise prohibited by this Indenture,
     (3) purchase money obligations for property acquired in the ordinary course of business that impose restrictions on the property so acquired, or
     (4) arising or agreed to in the ordinary course of business, not relating to any Indebtedness, and that do not, individually or in the aggregate, detract from the value of property or assets of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof in any manner material to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof;
     (vi) existing under, by reason of or with respect to any agreement for the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Capital Stock of, or property and assets of, a Restricted Subsidiary that restrict distributions by that Restricted Subsidiary pending such sale or other disposition;
 
     (vii) on cash or other deposits or net worth imposed by customers or required by insurance, surety or bonding companies, in each case, under contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business;
     (viii) existing under, by reason of or with respect to Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness; that the restrictions contained in the agreements governing such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness are no more restrictive, taken as a whole, than those contained in the agreements governing the Indebtedness being refinanced;
provided
     (ix) existing under, by reason of or with respect to provisions with respect to the disposition or distribution of assets or property, in each case contained in joint venture agreements, limited liability company agreements and other similar agreements and which the Company's Board of Directors determines shall not adversely affect the Company's ability to make payments of principal or interest payments on the Notes; and
     (x) existing under, by reason of or with respect to Indebtedness of any Guarantor; that the Company's Board of Directors determines in good faith at the time such encumbrances or restrictions are created that they do not adversely affect the Company's ability to make payments of principal or interest payments on the Notes.
provided
Section 4.09. .
Incurrence of Indebtedness
          (a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, Incur any Indebtedness; , that the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that are Guarantors may Incur Indebtedness, if the Company's Consolidated Leverage Ratio at the time of the Incurrence of such additional Indebtedness, and after giving effect thereto, is less than 4.50 to 1.
provided, however
          (b) Section 4.09(a) shall not prohibit the Incurrence of any of the following items of Indebtedness (collectively, ""):
Permitted Debt
     (i) the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness under Credit Facilities in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding pursuant to this clause (i) not to exceed $3.3 billion, less (x) the aggregate principal amount of Valor Notes outstanding at such time and (y) the aggregate amount of all Net Proceeds of Asset Sales applied by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof to permanently repay any such Indebtedness pursuant to Section 4.10;
     (ii) the Incurrence of Existing Indebtedness;
     (iii) the Incurrence by the Company of Indebtedness represented by the Notes to be issued on the Issue Date and the Guarantees of Notes (including Additional Notes) by the Guarantors;
     (iv) the Incurrence by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof of Indebtedness represented by Capital Lease Obligations, mortgage financings or purchase money obligations, in each case, Incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or cost of construction or improvement of property (real or personal),
 
plant or equipment used in the business of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary (whether through the direct acquisition of such assets or the acquisition of Equity Interests of any Person owning such assets), in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness Incurred to refund, refinance or replace any Indebtedness Incurred pursuant to this clause (iv), not to exceed the greater of (x) 3.0% of Total Assets and (y) $250.0 million;
     (v) the Incurrence by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to refund, refinance or replace Indebtedness (other than intercompany Indebtedness) that was permitted by this Indenture to be Incurred under Section 4.09(a) or clauses (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (xiv) or (xv) of this Section 4.09(b);
     (vi) the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of intercompany Indebtedness owing to and held by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; that (A) any subsequent issuance or transfer of Equity Interests that results in any such Indebtedness being held by a Person other than the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary thereof and (B) any sale or other transfer of any such Indebtedness to a Person that is not either the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary thereof, shall be deemed, in each case, to constitute an Incurrence of such Indebtedness by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, that was not permitted by this Section 4.09(b)(vi);
provided, however,
     (vii) the Guarantee by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary thereof that was permitted to be Incurred by another provision of this Section 4.09;
     (viii) the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Hedging Obligations that are Incurred for the purpose of fixing, hedging or swapping interest rate, commodity price or foreign currency exchange rate risk (or to reverse or amend any such agreements previously made for such purposes), and not for speculative purposes;
     (ix) the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness arising from agreements providing for indemnification, adjustment of purchase price or similar obligations, or Guarantees or letters of credit, surety bonds or performance bonds securing any obligations of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries pursuant to such agreements, in any case Incurred in connection with the disposition of any business, assets or Restricted Subsidiary (other than Guarantees of Indebtedness Incurred by any Person acquiring all or any portion of such business, assets or Restricted Subsidiary for the purpose of financing such acquisition), so long as the principal amount does not exceed the gross proceeds actually received by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof in connection with such disposition;
     (x) the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness arising from the honoring by a bank or other financial institution of a check, draft or similar instrument drawn against insufficient funds in the ordinary course of
 
business, that such Indebtedness is extinguished within five Business Days of its Incurrence;
provided, however,
     (xi) the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness constituting reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit in respect of workers' compensation claims or self-insurance obligations or bid, performance, appeal or surety bonds (in each case other than for an obligation for borrowed money);
     (xii) the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness constituting reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit issued in the ordinary course of business; that, upon the drawing of such letters of credit or the Incurrence of such Indebtedness, such obligations are reimbursed within 30 days following such drawing or Incurrence;
provided
     (xiii) the Incurrence by the Company or any Guarantor of Indebtedness to the extent that the net proceeds thereof are promptly deposited to defease or to satisfy and discharge the Notes of both series;
     (xiv) the Incurrence of Acquired Debt, that after giving effect to the Incurrence thereof, the Company could Incur at least $1.00 of Indebtedness under the Consolidated Leverage Ratio set forth in Section 4.09(a) hereof; and
provided
     (xv) the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of additional Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness Incurred to refund, refinance or replace any Indebtedness Incurred pursuant to this Section 4.09(b)(xv), not to exceed $250.0 million.
          For purposes of determining compliance with this Section 4.09, in the event that any proposed Indebtedness meets the criteria of more than one of the categories of Permitted Debt described in Section 4.09(b)(i) through (xv) above, or is entitled to be Incurred pursuant to Section 4.09(a), the Company shall be permitted to classify such item of Indebtedness at the time of its Incurrence in any manner that complies with this Section 4.09; that any refinancing (a "") of amounts Incurred in reliance on the exception provided by Section 4.09(b)(i) shall be deemed to have been Incurred in reliance on such Section 4.09(b)(i). Indebtedness under the Credit Agreement outstanding on the Issue Date or Incurred to refinance the Valor Notes shall be deemed to have been Incurred on such date in reliance on the exception provided by Section 4.09(b)(i). Additionally, all or any portion of any item of Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness under the Credit Agreement Incurred on the Issue Date or Incurred to refinance the Valor Notes and Credit Facility Refinancings, which at all times shall be deemed to have been Incurred under Section 4.09(b)(i) above) may later be reclassified as having been Incurred pursuant to Section 4.09(a) or under any one of the categories of Permitted Debt described in Section 4.09(b)(i) through (xv) so long as such Indebtedness is permitted to be Incurred pursuant to such provision at the time of reclassification.
provided
Credit Facility Refinancing
 
          (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of Section 4.09, the maximum amount of Indebtedness that may be Incurred pursuant to Section 4.09 shall not be deemed to be exceeded with respect to any outstanding Indebtedness due solely to the result of fluctuations in the exchange rates of currencies.
          (d) The Company shall not Incur any Indebtedness that is contractually subordinate in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of the Company unless it is contractually subordinate in right of payment to the Notes to the same extent. No Guarantor shall Incur any Indebtedness that is contractually subordinate in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of such Guarantor unless it is contractually subordinate in right of payment to such Guarantor's Note Guarantee to the same extent. For purposes of the foregoing, no Indebtedness shall be deemed to be contractually subordinated in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of the Company or any Guarantor, as applicable, solely by reason of any Liens or Guarantees arising or created in respect thereof or by virtue of the fact that the holders of any secured Indebtedness have entered into intercreditor agreements giving one or more of such holders priority over the other holders in the collateral held by them.
Section 4.10. .
Asset Sales
          (a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, consummate an Asset Sale unless:
     (i) the Company (or the Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be) receives consideration at the time of such Asset Sale at least equal to the Fair Market Value of the assets or Equity Interests issued or sold or otherwise disposed of; and
     (ii) at least 75% of the consideration therefor received by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary is in the form of cash, Cash Equivalents or Replacement Assets or a combination of both. For purposes of this Section 4.10(a)(ii), each of the following shall be deemed to be cash:
     (A) any liabilities (as shown on the Company's or such Restricted Subsidiary's most recent balance sheet) of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary (other than contingent liabilitiesIndebtedness that is by its terms subordinated to the Notes or any Note Guarantee and liabilities to the extent owed to the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company) that are assumed by the transferee of any such assets or Equity Interests pursuant to a written assignment and assumption agreement that releases the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary from further liability therefor;
,
     (B) any securities, notes or other obligations received by the Company or any such Restricted Subsidiary from such transferee that are converted by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary into Cash Equivalents or Replacement Assets within 180 days of the receipt thereof (to the extent of the Cash Equivalents or Replacement Assets received in that conversion);
     (C) any Designated Noncash Consideration received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in such Asset Sale having an aggregate Fair
 
Market Value, taken together with all other Designated Noncash Consideration received pursuant to this clause (C) that is at that time outstanding, not to exceed the greater of (x) 1.5% of Total Assets or (y) $100.0 million (with the Fair Market Value of each item of Designated Noncash Consideration being measured at the time received and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value).
          (b) Within 365 days after the receipt by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of any Net Proceeds from an Asset Sale, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary may apply such Net Proceeds at its option:
     (i) to repay (x) Indebtedness secured by assets of the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries (to the extent of the value of the assets securing such Indebtedness), (y) Obligations under the Credit Agreement or (z) Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company that is not a Guarantor (to the extent of the value of the assets of such Restricted Subsidiary); or
     (ii) to purchase Replacement Assets.
Pending the final application of any such Net Proceeds, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary may temporarily reduce revolving credit borrowings or otherwise invest such Net Proceeds in any manner that is not prohibited by this Indenture.
          (c) On the 366th day after an Asset Sale or such earlier date, if any, as the Company determines not to apply the Net Proceeds relating to such Asset Sale as set forth in Section 4.10(b) (each such date being referred as an ""), such aggregate amount of Net Proceeds that has not been applied on or before the Excess Proceeds Trigger Date as permitted pursuant to Section 4.10(b) ("") shall be applied by the Company to make an offer (an "") to all Holders of Notes and all holders of other Indebtedness that is with the Notes or any Note Guarantee containing provisions similar to those set forth in this Indenture with respect to offers to purchase with the proceeds of sales of assets, to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds. The offer price in any Asset Sale Offer shall be equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes and such other Indebtedness plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to the date of purchase, and shall be payable in cash.
Excess Proceeds Trigger Date
Excess Proceeds
Asset Sale Offer
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
          (d) The Company may defer the Asset Sale Offer until there are aggregate unutilized Excess Proceeds equal to or in excess of $30.0 million resulting from one or more Asset Sales, at which time the entire unutilized amount of Excess Proceeds (not only the amount in excess of $30.0 million) shall be applied as provided in Section 4.10(c). If any Excess Proceeds remain after consummation of an Asset Sale Offer, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries may use such Excess Proceeds for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by this Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness tendered into such Asset Sale Offer exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Notes and such other Indebtedness shall be purchased on a pro rata basis based on the principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness tendered. Upon completion of each
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
 
Asset Sale Offer, the Excess Proceeds subject to such Asset Sale shall no longer be deemed to be Excess Proceeds.
          (e) The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with each repurchase of Notes pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Asset Sales provisions of this Indenture, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached their obligations under the Asset Sale provisions of this Indenture by virtue of such compliance.
Section 4.11. .
Transactions with Affiliates
          (a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, make any payment to, or sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets to, or purchase any property or assets from, or enter into, make, amend, renew or extend any transaction, contract, agreement, understanding, loan, advance or Guarantee with, or for the benefit of, any Affiliate (each, an ""), unless:
Affiliate Transaction
     (i) such Affiliate Transaction is on terms that are no less favorable to the Company or the relevant Restricted Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable arm's-length transaction by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary with a Person that is not an Affiliate of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; and
     (ii) the Company delivers to the Trustee:
     (1) with respect to any Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions involving aggregate consideration in excess of $25.0 million, a Board Resolution set forth in an Officers' Certificate certifying that such Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions complies with this Section 4.11 and that such Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions has been approved by a majority of the disinterested members of the Board of Directors of the Company (if any); and
     (2) with respect to any Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions involving aggregate consideration in excess of $100.0 million, an opinion as to the fairness to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary of such Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions from a financial point of view issued by an independent accounting, appraisal or investment banking firm of national standing.
          (b) The following items shall not be deemed to be Affiliate Transactions and, therefore, shall not be subject to the provisions of Section 4.11(a):
     (i) transactions between or among the Company and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries or any Person that shall become a Restricted Subsidiary as part of any such transactions (but excluding any such transaction to the extent that any payments
 
thereunder made by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to such Person are substantially concurrently paid by such Person to any other Affiliate of the Company, except to the extent that any such transaction would not be prohibited by this Section 4.11);
     (ii) payment of reasonable and customary fees to, and reasonable and customary indemnification and similar payments on behalf of, directors of the Company;
     (iii) Permitted Investments and Restricted Payments that are permitted by the provisions of Section 4.07;
     (iv) any sale of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company;
     (v) transactions pursuant to agreements or arrangements in effect on the Issue Date, or any amendment, modification, or supplement thereto or replacement thereof, as long as such agreement or arrangement, as so amended, modified, supplemented or replaced, taken as a whole, is not more disadvantageous to the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries than the original agreement or arrangement in existence on the Issue Date;
     (vi) any employment, consulting, service or termination agreement, or reasonable and customary indemnification arrangements, entered into by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries with officers and employees of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and the payment of compensation to officers and employees of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (including amounts paid pursuant to employee benefit plans, employee stock option or similar plans), so long as such agreement or payment has been approved by a majority of the disinterested members of the Board of Directors of the Company;
     (vii) payments or loans to employees or consultants in the ordinary course of business which are approved by a majority of the disinterested members of the Board of Directors of the Company in good faith;
     (viii) transactions with a Person that is an Affiliate of the Company solely because the Company, directly or indirectly, owns Equity Interests in, or controls, such Person; and
     (ix) transactions with customers, clients, suppliers or purchasers or sellers of goods or services, in each case in the ordinary course of business and otherwise in compliance with the terms of this Indenture, which are fair to the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in the determination of a majority of the disinterested members of the Board of Directors or the senior management of the Company, or are on terms at least as favorable as might reasonably have been obtained at such time from an unaffiliated party.
 
Section 4.12. .
Liens
          The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any Lien of any kind securing Indebtedness (other than Permitted Liens) upon any of their property or assets, now owned or hereafter acquired, unless all payments due under this Indenture and the Notes are secured on an equal and ratable basis with the obligations so secured (or, in the case of Indebtedness subordinated to the Notes or the related Note Guarantees, prior or senior thereto, with the same relative priority as the Notes shall have with respect to such subordinated Indebtedness) until such time as such obligations are no longer secured by a Lien.
Section 4.13. .
Business Activities
          The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary thereof to, engage in any business other than Permitted Businesses, except to such extent as would not be material to the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Section 4.14. .
Offer to Repurchase upon a Change of Control
          (a) If a Change of Control occurs, each Holder of Notes shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000) of that Holder's Notes pursuant to an offer by the Company (a "") at an offer price (a "") in cash equal to not less than 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, thereon, to the date of repurchase (the ""). Within 30 days following any Change of Control (unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes pursuant to Section 3.07 hereof), the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control and offering to repurchase Notes on the Change of Control Payment Date specified in such notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures described in Section 3.08 (including the notice required thereby). The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions of this Indenture, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached their obligations under the Change of Control provisions of this Indenture by virtue of such compliance.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
          (b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
     (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
     (ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions thereof so tendered; and
 
     (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes of each series or portions thereof being purchased by the Company.
          (c) The Paying Agent shall promptly mail or wire transfer to each Holder of Notes so tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note of the same series equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; that each such new Note shall be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple $1,000 in excess of $2,000.
provided
          (d) The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
          (e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 4.14, the Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 4.14 and all other provisions of this Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
Section 4.15. [].
INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Section 4.16. .
Designation of Restricted and Unrestricted Subsidiaries
          (a) The Board of Directors of the Company may designate any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary; that:
provided
     (i) any Guarantee by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof of any Indebtedness of the Subsidiary being so designated shall be deemed to be an Incurrence of Indebtedness by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary (or both, if applicable) at the time of such designation, and such Incurrence of Indebtedness would be permitted under Section 4.09;
     (ii) the aggregate Fair Market Value of all outstanding Investments owned by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in the Subsidiary being so designated (including any Guarantee by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof of any Indebtedness of such Subsidiary) shall be deemed to be a Restricted Investment made as of the time of such designation and that such Investment would be permitted under Section 4.07;
     (iii) the Subsidiary being so designated:
     (1) is not party to any agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding with the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof unless either (A) such agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding is with customers, clients, suppliers or purchasers or sellers
 
of goods or services, in each case in the ordinary course of business and otherwise in compliance with the terms of this Indenture, which are fair to the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in the determination of a majority of the disinterested members of the Board of Directors or the senior management of the Company, or (B) the terms of any such agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding are no less favorable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons who are not Affiliates of the Company;
     (2) is a Person with respect to which neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has any direct or indirect obligation (A) to subscribe for additional Equity Interests or (B) to maintain or preserve such Person's financial condition or to cause such Person to achieve any specified levels of operating results; and
     (3) has not Guaranteed or otherwise directly or indirectly provided credit support for any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, except (A) to the extent such Guarantee or credit support would be released upon such designation or (B) a pledge of the Equity Interests of the Unrestricted Subsidiary that is the obligor thereunder; and
     (iv) no Default or Event of Default would be in existence following such designation.
          (b) Any designation of a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company as an Unrestricted Subsidiary shall be evidenced to the Trustee by filing with the Trustee the Board Resolution giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the preceding conditions and was permitted by this Indenture. If, at any time, any Unrestricted Subsidiary would fail to meet any of the preceding requirements described in Section 4.16(a)(iii), it shall thereafter cease to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary for purposes of this Indenture and any Indebtedness, Investments, or Liens on the property, of such Subsidiary shall be deemed to be Incurred or made by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company as of such date and, if such Indebtedness, Investments or Liens are not permitted to be Incurred or made as of such date under this Indenture, the Company shall be in default under this Indenture.
          (c) The Board of Directors of the Company may at any time designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary; that:
provided
     (i) such designation shall be deemed to be an Incurrence of Indebtedness by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company of any outstanding Indebtedness (including any Non-Recourse Debt) of such Unrestricted Subsidiary and such designation shall only be permitted if such Indebtedness is permitted under Section 4.09;
     (ii) all outstanding Investments owned by such Unrestricted Subsidiary shall be deemed to be made as of the time of such designation and such designation shall only be permitted if such Investments would be permitted under Section 4.07;
     (iii) all Liens upon property or assets of such Unrestricted Subsidiary existing at the time of such designation would be permitted under Section 4.12; and
 
     (iv) no Default or Event of Default would be in existence following such designation.
Section 4.17. .
Payments for Consent
          The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any consideration to or for the benefit of any Holder of Notes for or as an inducement to any consent, waiver or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of this Indenture or the Notes unless such consideration is offered to be paid and is paid to all Holders of the Notes of the affected series that consent, waive or agree to amend in the time frame set forth in the solicitation documents relating to such consent, waiver or agreement.
Section 4.18. .
Guarantees
          The Company shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than any Insignificant Subsidiary), directly or indirectly, to Guarantee or pledge any assets to secure the payment of any other Indebtedness of the Company or any Domestic Restricted Subsidiary unless such Restricted Subsidiary is a Guarantor or simultaneously executes and delivers to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel and a supplemental indenture, substantially in the form of hereto, providing for the Guarantee of the payment of the Notes by such Restricted Subsidiary, which Guarantee shall be senior to or with such Subsidiary's Guarantee of such other Indebtedness.
Exhibit E-1
pari passu
Section 4.19. .
Sale and Leaseback Transactions
          The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction; that the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary thereof may enter into a Sale and Leaseback Transaction if:
provided
     (i) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as applicable, could have (A) Incurred Indebtedness in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt relating to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction pursuant to Section 4.09 and (B) incurred a Lien to secure such Indebtedness pursuant to Section 4.12 in which case such Indebtedness and Lien shall be deemed to have been so Incurred;
     (ii) the gross cash proceeds of that Sale and Leaseback Transaction are at least equal to the Fair Market Value of the property that is the subject of that Sale and Leaseback Transaction; and
     (iii) the transfer of assets in that Sale and Leaseback Transaction is permitted by, and the Company applies the proceeds of such transaction in compliance with, Section 4.10.
 
Section 4.20. .
[INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]
Section 4.21. .
Termination of Applicability of Certain Covenants if Notes Rated Investment Grade
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company's and its Restricted Subsidiaries' obligations to comply with this Article Four (except for Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.12, 4.14, 4.18 and 4.19) and Section 5.01(a)(iii) will terminate with respect to the Notes of a series and cease to have any further effect from and after the first date when the Notes of such series are rated Investment Grade.
Section 5.01. .
Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets
          (a) The Company shall not, directly or indirectly: (1) consolidate or merge with or into another Person (whether or not the Company is the surviving corporation) or (2) sell, assign, transfer, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole, in one or more related transactions, to another Person, unless:
     (i) either: (1) the Company is the surviving corporation; or (2) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made (A) is a corporation or limited liability company organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia (that, if the Person formed by or surviving such consolidation or merger, or the transferee of such properties or assets, is a limited liability company, then there shall be a Restricted Subsidiary of such Person which shall be a corporation organized in the jurisdictions permitted by this Section 5.01(a)(i) and a co-obligor of the Notes) and (B) assumes all the obligations of the Company under the Notes, this Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement pursuant to agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee;
provided
     (ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists;
     (iii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction on a pro forma basis, the Company or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company), or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made, shall either (x) be permitted to Incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Consolidated Leverage Ratio test set forth in Section 4.09(a) or (y) have a Consolidated Leverage Ratio that is lower than the Consolidated Leverage Ratio of the Company immediately prior to such transaction; and
     (iv) each Guarantor, unless such Guarantor is the Person with which the Company has entered into a transaction under this Section 5.01, shall have by amendment
 
to its Note Guarantee confirmed that its Note Guarantee shall apply to the obligations of the Company or the surviving Person in accordance with the Notes and this Indenture.
          (b) In addition, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries may not, directly or indirectly, lease all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, in one or more related transactions, to any other Person. Section 5.01(a)(ii) and (iii) shall not apply to (i) any merger, consolidation or sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition of assets between or among the Company and any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, (ii) any transaction if, in the good faith determination of the Board of Directors of the Company, the sole purpose of the transaction is to reincorporate the Company in another state of the United States or (iii) the Merger.
Section 5.02. .
Successor Corporation Substituted
          Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.01 hereof, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for (so that from and after the date of such consolidation, merger, sale, assignment, conveyance or other disposition, the provisions of this Indenture referring to the "Company" shall refer instead to the successor Person and not to the Company), and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under the Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company in this Indenture. In the event of any such transfer (other than any transfer by way of lease), the predecessor Company will be released and discharged from all liabilities and obligations in respect of the Notes and the Indenture and the predecessor Company may be dissolved, wound up or liquidated at any time thereafter.
Section 6.01. .
Events of Default
          (a) Each of the following is an "" with respect to the Notes of each series:
Event of Default
     (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on, or Additional Interest with respect to, the Notes of such series;
     (ii) default in payment when due (whether at maturity, upon acceleration, redemption, required repurchase or otherwise) of the principal of, or premium, if any, on the Notes of such series;
     (iii) failure by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to comply with Article Five;
     (iv) failure by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries for 30 days after written notice by the Trustee or Holders representing 25% or more of the aggregate
 
principal amount of Notes of such series then outstanding to comply with Section 4.10 or Section 4.14 (other than a failure to purchase Notes in connection therewith, which shall constitute an Event of Default under clause (ii) above);
     (v) failure by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries for 60 days after written notice by the Trustee or Holders representing 25% or more of the aggregate principal amount of Notes of such series then outstanding to comply with any of the other agreements in this Indenture;
     (vi) default under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (or the payment of which is Guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) whether such Indebtedness or Guarantee now exists, or is created after the Issue Date, if that default:
     (A) is caused by a failure to make any principal payment when due at the final maturity of such Indebtedness and prior to the expiration of any grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a ""); or
Payment Default
     (B) results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity,
and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates $75.0 million or more;
     (vii) failure by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to pay final judgments (to the extent such judgments are not paid or covered by insurance provided by a reputable carrier that has the ability to perform) aggregating in excess of $75.0 million, which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days;
     (viii) except as permitted by this Indenture, any Note Guarantee with respect to the Notes of such series shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under its Note Guarantee with respect to the Notes of such series;
     (ix) the Company or any Significant Subsidiary of the Company (or any Restricted Subsidiaries that together would constitute a Significant Subsidiary) pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law:
     (A) commences a voluntary case,
     (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case,
 
     (C) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or
     (D) generally is not paying its debts as they become due; and
     (x) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
     (A) is for relief against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary of the Company (or Restricted Subsidiaries that together would constitute a Significant Subsidiary), in an involuntary case; or
     (B) appoints a custodian of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary of the Company (or Restricted Subsidiaries that together would constitute a Significant Subsidiary) or for all or substantially all of the property of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary of the Company (or Restricted Subsidiaries that together would constitute a Significant Subsidiary); or
     (C) orders the liquidation of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary of the Company (or Restricted Subsidiaries that together would constitute a Significant Subsidiary);
     and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 consecutive days.
Section 6.02. .
Acceleration
          (a) In the case of an Event of Default specified in clauses (ix) and (x) of Section 6.01(a) above with respect to (i) the Company or (ii) any Significant Subsidiary of the Company (or any Restricted Subsidiaries that together would constitute a Significant Subsidiary), all outstanding Notes of each series shall become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If any other Event of Default occurs and is continuing with respect to Notes of a series, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of such series may declare all the Notes of such series to be due and payable immediately by notice in writing to the Company specifying the Event of Default. Upon such declaration, the Notes of such series, together with accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest), shall become due and payable immediately.
          (b) In the event of a declaration of acceleration of the Notes of a series because an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as a result of the acceleration of any Indebtedness described in Section 6.01(a)(vi), the declaration of acceleration of the Notes of such series shall be automatically annulled if the holders of all Indebtedness described in Section 6.01(a)(vi) have rescinded the declaration of acceleration in respect of such Indebtedness within 30 Business Days of the date of such declaration, and if the annulment of the acceleration of the Notes of such series would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, and all existing Events of Default with respect to Notes of such series, except non-payment of principal or interest on the Notes of such series that became due solely because of the acceleration of the Notes of such series, have been cured or waived.
 
          (c) In the case of any Event of Default occurring by reason of any willful action or inaction taken or not taken by or on behalf of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries with the intention of avoiding payment of the premium that the Company would have had to pay if the Company then had elected to redeem the Notes of the affected series pursuant to Section 3.07, an equivalent premium shall also become and be immediately due and payable to the extent permitted by law upon the acceleration of the Notes of such series.
Section 6.03. .
Other Remedies
          (a) If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing with respect to a series of Notes, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal, premium, if any, interest, and Additional Interest, if any, with respect to, the Notes of such series or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes of such series or this Indenture.
          (b) The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder of a Note in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. All remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law.
Section 6.04. .
Waiver of Past Defaults
          Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes of a series then outstanding by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes of such series waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences hereunder except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest or Additional Interest on, or the principal of, the Notes of such series.
          The Company shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the requisite percentage of Holders have consented to such waiver and attaching copies of such consents. In case of any such waiver, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of Notes of such series shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder and under the Notes of such series, respectively. This Section 6.04 shall be in lieu of Section 316(a)(1)(B) of the TIA and such Section 316(a)(1)(B) of the TIA is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture and the Notes, as permitted by the TIA. Upon any such waiver, such Default with respect to the affected series of Notes shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default with respect to such series of Notes arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Indenture, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 6.05. .
Control by Majority
          The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Trustee with respect to the Notes of such series, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee with respect to the Notes of such series. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture, that may involve the Trustee in personal liability, or that the Trustee determines in good faith
 
may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of Holders of Notes of such series not joining in the giving of such direction and may take any other action it deems proper that is not inconsistent with any such direction received from Holders of Notes of such series.
Section 6.06. .
Limitation on Suits
          (a) A Holder of a Note of any series may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Notes of such series unless:
     (i) the Holder gives the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to Notes of such series;
     (ii) the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes of such series make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
     (iii) such Holder or Holders offer the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any costs, liability or expense;
     (iv) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer of indemnity; and
     (v) during such 60-day period, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes of such series do not give the Trustee a direction that is inconsistent with the request.
          (b) A Holder of a Note may not use this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of another Holder of a Note or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder of a Note (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holder).
Section 6.07. .
Rights of Holders of Notes to Receive Payment
          Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Note to receive payment of the principal of, premium or Additional Interest, if any, or interest on, such Note or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment, on or after the due date expressed in the Notes, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of the Holder.
Section 6.08. .
Collection Suit by Trustee
          If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a)(i) or (a)(ii) occurs and is continuing with respect to Notes of either series, the Trustee is authorized to recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of principal of, premium, if any, interest, and Additional Interest, if any, remaining unpaid on the Notes of such series and interest on overdue principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent lawful, interest and Additional Interest, if any, and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
 
Section 6.09. .
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
          The Trustee is authorized to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders of the Notes of a series then outstanding allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to any of the Company or Guarantors (or any other obligor upon the Notes of such series), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money or other securities or property payable or deliverable on any such claims and any custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee, and in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07. To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 out of the estate in any such proceeding shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a Lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that the Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
Section 6.10. .
Priorities
          (a) If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article Six, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
     First: to the Trustee, its agents and attorneys for amounts due under Section 7.07, including payment of all compensation, expense and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee and the costs and expenses of collection;
     Second: to Holders of Notes of the series in respect of which such money was collected for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes of such series for principal, premium, if any, interest and Additional Interest, if any, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes of such series for principal, premium, if any, interest, and Additional Interest, if any, respectively; and
     Third: to the Company or to such party as a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct.
          (b) The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders of Notes pursuant to this Section 6.10.
 
Section 6.11. .
Undertaking for Costs
          In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as a Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder of a Note pursuant to Section 6.07 hereof, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes.
Section 7.01. .
Duties of Trustee
          Except to the extent, if any, provided otherwise in the TIA (as from time to time in effect):
     (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
     (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
     (i) the duties of the Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture and the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
     (ii) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, in the case of any certificates or opinions required to be delivered hereunder, the Trustee shall examine the certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
     (c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
     (i) this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section 7.01;
 
     (ii) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
     (iii) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05.
     (d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 7.01.
     (e) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or incur any liability. The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights and powers under this Indenture at the request of any Holders, unless such Holder shall have offered to the Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, costs, liability or expense that might be incurred by it in connection with the request or direction.
     (f) Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee (acting in any capacity) shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
Section 7.02. .
Certain Rights of Trustee
          (a) The Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
          (b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel or both. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
          (c) The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and shall not be responsible for the willful misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
          (d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture.
          (e) Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company shall be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company.
 
          (f) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
          (g) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default (except any Event of Default occurring pursuant to Sections 6.01(a)(i), 6.01(a)(ii) and 4.01) unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of such event is sent to the Trustee in accordance with Section 12.02, and such notice references the Notes and this Indenture.
          (h) In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
          (i) The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
          (j) The Trustee may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture.
Section 7.03. .
Individual Rights of Trustee
          The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may become a creditor of, or otherwise deal with, the Company or any of its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. However, in the event that the Trustee acquires any conflicting interest as described in the TIA (as in effect at such time), it must eliminate such conflict within 90 days, apply to the Commission for permission to continue as trustee or resign. Any Agent may do the same with like rights and duties. The Trustee is also subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11.
Section 7.04. .
Trustee's Disclaimer
          The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Notes, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Notes or any money paid to the Company or upon the Company's direction under any provision of this Indenture, it shall not be responsible for the use or application of any money received by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee, it shall not be responsible for any statement or recital herein or any statement in the Notes or any other document in connection with the sale of the Notes or pursuant to this Indenture other than its certificate of authentication, and it shall not be responsible for the compliance by the Company or any Holder with any federal or state securities laws or the determination as to which beneficial owners are entitled to receive notices hereunder.
 
          Notwithstanding anything else herein to the contrary, the Trustee shall not have (a) any responsibility with respect to (i) the accuracy of the records of any Depositary or any other Person with respect to any beneficial interest in Global Notes or (ii) the selection of the particular portions of a Global Note to be redeemed or refunded in the event of a partial redemption or refunding of part of the Notes of a series Outstanding that are represented by Global Notes, or (b) any obligation to (i) deliver to any Person, other than a Holder, any notice with respect to Global Notes, including any notice of redemption or refunding or (ii) make payment to any Person, other than a Holder, of any amount with respect to the principal of, redemption premium, if any, or interest on Global Notes.
Section 7.05. .
Notice of Defaults
          If a Default or an Event of Default occurs and is continuing with respect to the Notes of any series and if it is known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to Holders of Notes of such series a notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs. Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest or Additional Interest on any Note of a series then outstanding, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Notes of such series.
Section 7.06. .
Reports by Trustee to Holders of the Notes
          (a) Within 60 days after each May 15 beginning with the May 15 following the date hereof, and for so long as Notes remain outstanding, the Trustee shall mail to the Holders of the Notes a brief report dated as of such reporting date that complies with TIA Section 313(a) (but if no event described in TIA Section 313(a) has occurred within the twelve months preceding the reporting date, no report need be transmitted). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA Section 313(b)(2). The Trustee shall also transmit by mail all reports as required by TIA Section 313(c).
          (b) A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to the Holders of Notes shall be mailed to the Company and filed with the Commission and each stock exchange on which the Notes are listed in accordance with TIA Section 313(d). The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing when the Notes are listed on any stock exchange or any delisting thereof.
Section 7.07. .
Compensation and Indemnity
          (a) The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for its acceptance of this Indenture and services hereunder in accordance with a written schedule provided by the Trustee to the Company. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee promptly upon request for all reasonable disbursements, advances and expenses incurred or made by it in addition to the compensation for its services. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel.
 
          (b) The Company and the Guarantors shall fully indemnify the Trustee against any and all losses, liabilities or expenses incurred by it arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of its duties under this Indenture, including the costs and expenses of enforcing this Indenture against the Company and the Guarantors (including this Section 7.07) and defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by either of the Company or any Holder or any other person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, except to the extent any such loss, liability or expense may be attributable to its negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct. The Trustee shall notify the Company and the Guarantors promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder unless the failure to notify the Company impairs the Company's ability to defend such claim. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. The Company does not need to pay for any settlement made without its consent. The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss or liability incurred by the Trustee as a result of the violation of this Indenture by the Trustee if such violation arose from the Trustee's negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct.
          (c) The obligations of the Company and the Guarantors under this Section 7.07 shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture and resignation or removal of the Trustee.
          (d) To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 7.07, the Trustee shall have a Lien prior to the Notes, which it may exercise by right of set-off, on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal and interest on particular Notes. Such Lien shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture and resignation or removal of the Trustee.
          (e) When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a)(ix) and (x) hereof occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services (including the fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
          (f) The Trustee shall comply with the provisions of TIA Section 313(b)(2) to the extent applicable.
          (g) Any amounts due and owing to the Trustee hereunder (whether in the nature of fees, expenses, indemnification payments or reimbursements for advances) which have not been paid by or on behalf of the Company within 30 days following written notice thereof given to the Company shall bear interest at an interest rate equal to the Trustee's announced prime rate in effect from time to time, plus two percent (2%) per annum.
Section 7.08. .
Replacement of Trustee
          (a) A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee shall become effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section 7.08.
 
          (b) The Trustee may resign in writing at any time and be discharged from the trust hereby created by so notifying the Company. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a series may remove the Trustee with respect to such series of Notes by so notifying the Trustee and the Company in writing. The Company may remove the Trustee if:
     (i) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
     (ii) the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law;
     (iii) a custodian or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
     (iv) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting.
          (c) If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee. Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a series may appoint a successor Trustee with respect to such series of Notes to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
          (d) If a successor Trustee does not take office within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company, or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
          (e) If the Trustee, after written request by any Holder who has been a Holder for at least six months, fails to comply with Section 7.10, such Holder may, at the expense of the Company, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
          (f) A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, all sums owing to the Trustee hereunder have been paid and subject to the Lien provided for in Section 7.07. Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
provided
Section 7.09. .
Successor Trustee by Merger, Etc
          If the Trustee consolidates, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another Person, the successor Person without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
 
Section 7.10. .
Eligibility; Disqualification
          There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder that is a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any state thereof that is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, that is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authorities and that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50.0 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition.
          This Indenture shall always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA Section 310(a)(1), (2) and (5). The Trustee is subject to TIA Section 310(b).
Section 7.11. .
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
          The Trustee is subject to TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein. The Trustee hereby waives any right to set off any claim that it may have against the Company in any capacity (other than any capacity in which it serves under this Indenture) against any of the assets of the Company held by the Trustee; , , that if the Trustee is or becomes a lender of any other Indebtedness permitted hereunder to be with the Notes, then such waiver shall not apply to the extent of such Indebtedness.
provided
however
pari passu
Section 8.01. .
Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
          The Company may, at the option of its Board of Directors evidenced by a resolution set forth in an Officers' Certificate, at any time, elect to have either Section 8.02 or 8.03 be applied to all outstanding Notes of any series and the Notes Guarantees related to the Notes of such series upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article Eight.
Section 8.02. .
Legal Defeasance and Discharge
          Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.02, the Company shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from their obligations with respect to all outstanding Notes of a series and all obligations of the Guarantors shall be deemed to have been discharged with respect to their obligations under the Note Guarantees related to the Notes of such series on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, ""). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company and the Guarantors shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by the outstanding Notes of such series and Note Guarantees related to the Notes of such series, respectively, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "outstanding" only for the purposes of Section 8.05 and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in (a) and (b) below, and to have satisfied all their other obligations under such Notes, the related Note Guarantees and this Indenture (and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which shall
Legal Defeasance
 
survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (a) the rights of Holders of outstanding Notes to receive solely from the trust fund described in Section 8.04, and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of, premium, if any, interest and Additional Interest, if any, on such Notes when such payments are due, (b) the Company's obligations with respect to such Notes under Article Two concerning issuing temporary Notes, registration of Notes and mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes and the Company's obligations under Section 4.02, (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the Company's and the Guarantors' obligations in connection therewith and (d) this Article Eight. Subject to compliance with this Article Eight, the Company may exercise their option under this Section 8.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of their option under Section 8.03 hereof.
Section 8.03. .
Covenant Defeasance
          Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03, the Company and the Guarantors shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be released from their obligations under the covenants contained in Sections 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.13, 4.14, 4.16, 4.17, 4.18, 4.19 and 5.01(a)(iii) with respect to the outstanding Notes of a series and the Note Guarantees related to the Notes of such series on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, ""), and the Notes of such series shall thereafter be deemed not "outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Notes shall not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Notes and the Notes Guarantees related to the Notes of such series, the Company and the Guarantors may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default with respect to Notes of such series under Section 6.01, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Notes and Note Guarantees shall be unaffected thereby. In addition, upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 of the option applicable to this Section 8.03, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04, Sections 6.01(a)(iii) through (viii) shall not constitute Events of Default with respect to Notes of the affected series.
Covenant Defeasance
Section 8.04. .
Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance
          (a) The following shall be the conditions to the application of either Section 8.02 or 8.03 to the outstanding Notes of a series:
     (i) the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes of the affected series, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public
 
accountants, to pay the principal of, or interest and premium and Additional Interest, if any, on the outstanding Notes of such series on the Stated Maturity or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be, and the Company must specify whether the Notes of such series are being defeased to maturity or to a particular redemption date;
     (ii) in the case of Legal Defeasance, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that (a) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (b) since the Issue Date, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of the outstanding Notes of the affected series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred;
     (iii) in the case of Covenant Defeasance, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that the Holders of the outstanding Notes of the affected series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
     (iv) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing either: (a) on the date of such deposit; or (b) insofar as Events of Default from bankruptcy or insolvency events are concerned, at any time in the period ending on the 123rd day after the date of deposit;
     (v) such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under any material agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries is bound;
     (vi) the Company must have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that assuming no intervening bankruptcy of either the Company or any Guarantor between the date of deposit and the 123 day following the deposit and assuming that no Holder is an "insider" of the Company under applicable bankruptcy law, after the 123 day following the deposit, the trust funds will not be subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, including Section 547 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, and Section 15 of the New York Debtor and Creditor Law;
rd
rd
     (vii) the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders over the other creditors of the Company with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Company or others;
 
     (viii) if the Notes of the affected series are to be redeemed prior to their Stated Maturity, the Company must deliver to the Trustee irrevocable instructions to redeem all of the Notes of such series on the specified redemption date; and
     (ix) the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent (other than the expiration of the 123-day period referred to in Section 8.04(a)(vi)) relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
          (a) Subject to Section 8.06, all money and non-callable Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 8.04 in respect of the outstanding Notes of any series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Notes of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium and Additional Interest, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
          (b) The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 8.04 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Notes of such series.
          (c) Anything in this Article Eight to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any money or non-callable Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 8.04 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be the opinion delivered under Section 8.04(a)), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
Section 8.06. .
Repayment to the Company
          Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, interest, or Additional Interest, if any, on any Note and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, and premium, if any, interest, or Additional Interest, if any, has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its written request or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Note shall thereafter look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the reasonable expense of the Company cause to be published once, in the
provided
however
 
New York Times and The Wall Street Journal (national edition), notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining shall be repaid to the Company.
Section 8.07. .
Reinstatement
          If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any United States dollars or non-callable Government Securities in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03, as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture, the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.02 or 8.03 and, in the case of a Legal Defeasance, the Guarantors' obligations under their respective Note Guarantees shall be revised and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.02 or 8.03, in each case until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03, as the case may be; , , that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note following the reinstatement of their obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
provided
however
Section 9.01. .
Without Consent of Holders of Notes
          (a) Notwithstanding Section 9.02, with respect to each series of Notes, the Company, the Guarantors, and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture, the Notes or the Note Guarantees without the consent of any Holder of a Note of such series:
     (i) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency;
     (ii) to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes;
     (iii) to provide for the assumption of any of the Company's or Guarantor's obligations to Holders of Notes in the case of a merger or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of such the Company's or Guarantor's assets;
     (iv) to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of Notes of such series or that does not materially adversely affect the legal rights under this Indenture of any such Holder;
     (v) to comply with requirements of the Commission in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA;
     (vi) to comply with Section 4.18;
 
     (vii) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor Trustee;
     (viii) to provide for the issuance of Additional Notes in accordance with this Indenture; or
     (ix) to conform the text of this Indenture or the Notes to any provision of the section of the Offering Memorandum entitled "Description of Notes" to the extent that such provision in this Indenture or the Notes was intended to conform to the text of such "Description of Notes".
          Upon the request of the Company accompanied by resolutions of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental Indenture, and upon receipt by the Trustee of any documents requested under Section 7.02(b) hereof, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of any amended or supplemental Indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Indenture and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into such amended or supplemental Indenture that affects its own rights, duties, protections, privileges, indemnities or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Section 9.02. .
With Consent of Holders of Notes
          (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 9.02, with respect to each series of Notes, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Notes (and related Note Guarantees) of such series with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Notes of such series then outstanding (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, Notes of such series), and, subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07, any existing Default or Event of Default or compliance with any provision of this Indenture or the Notes (and related Note Guarantees) with respect to either series of Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) of such series (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, Notes of such series).
          (b) The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Persons entitled to consent to any indenture supplemental hereto. If a record date is fixed, the Holders of Notes of the affected series on such record date, or its duly designated proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to consent to such supplemental indenture, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; that unless such consent shall have become effective by virtue of the requisite percentage having been obtained prior to the date which is 90 days after such record date, any such consent previously given shall automatically and without further action by any Holder be cancelled and of no further effect.
provided
          (c) Upon the request of the Company accompanied by resolutions of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amendment or supplement to this Indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence satisfactory to the Trustee of the consent of the
 
Holders of Notes as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02(b), the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such amendment or supplement unless such amendment or supplement directly affects the Trustee's own rights, duties, protections, privileges, indemnities or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such amendment or supplement.
          (d) It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Notes under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, supplement or waiver, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
          (e) After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section becomes effective, the Company shall mail to the Holders of Notes of the series affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver. Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such amendment, supplement or waiver. Subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) of a series may waive compliance in a particular instance by the Company with any provision of this Indenture, or the Notes of such series. However, with respect to each series of Notes, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment or waiver under this Section 9.02 may not (with respect to any Notes held by a non-consenting Holder):
     (i) reduce the principal amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver;
     (ii) reduce the principal of or change the fixed maturity of any Note or alter the provisions, or waive any payment, with respect to the redemption of the Notes other than provisions relating to Sections 4.10 and 4.14 (except to the extent provided in clause (ix) below);
     (iii) reduce the rate of or change the time for payment of interest on any Note;
     (iv) waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of, or interest or premium, or Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes (except a rescission of acceleration of the Notes by the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes of the applicable series and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration);
     (v) make any Note payable in money other than U.S. dollars;
     (vi) make any change in the provisions of this Indenture relating to waivers of past Defaults or the rights of Holders of Notes to receive payments of principal of, or interest or premium or Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes;
     (vii) release any Guarantor from any of its obligations under its Note Guarantee or this Indenture, except in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
 
     (viii) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or with respect to the Notes or the Note Guarantees;
     (ix) amend, change or modify the obligation of the Company to make and consummate an Asset Sale Offer with respect to any Asset Sale in accordance with Section 4.10 after the obligation to make such Asset Sale Offer has arisen, or the obligation of the Company to make and consummate a Change of Control Offer in the event of a Change of Control in accordance with Section 4.14 after such Change of Control has occurred, including, in each case, amending, changing or modifying any definition relating thereto;
     (x) except as otherwise permitted under Section 4.18 and Section 5.01, consent to the assignment or transfer by the Company or any Guarantor of any of their rights or obligations under this Indenture;
     (xi) amend or modify any of the provisions of this Indenture or the related definitions affecting the ranking of the Notes or any Note Guarantee in any manner adverse to the Holders of the Notes or any Note Guarantee; and
     (xii) make any change in the preceding amendment and waiver provisions.
Section 9.03. .
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act
          Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Notes shall be set forth in a document that complies with the TIA as then in effect.
Section 9.04. .
Revocation and Effect of Consents
          Until an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Note is a continuing consent by the Holder of a Note and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Note. However, any such Holder of a Note or subsequent Holder of a Note may revoke the consent as to its Note if the Trustee receives written notice of revocation before the date the waiver, supplement or amendment becomes effective. An amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder.
Section 9.05. .
Notation on or Exchange of Notes
          (a) The Trustee may place an appropriate notation about an amendment, supplement or waiver on any Note thereafter authenticated. The Company in exchange for all Notes may issue and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, authenticate new Notes that reflect the amendment, supplement or waiver.
          (b) Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Note shall not affect the validity and effect of such amendment, supplement or waiver.
 
Section 9.06. .
Trustee to Sign Amendments, Etc
          The Trustee shall sign any amendment or supplement to this Indenture or any Note authorized pursuant to this Article Nine if the amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities, protections, privileges, indemnities or immunities of the Trustee. The Company may not sign an amendment or supplemental Indenture or Note until its Board of Directors approve it. In executing any amendment or supplement or Note, the Trustee shall receive and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in conclusively relying upon an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amendment or supplement is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
Section 10.01. .
Guarantee
          (a) Subject to this Article Ten, each of the Guarantors hereby, jointly and severally, and fully and unconditionally, guarantees to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of this Indenture, the Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that: (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes, if lawful (subject in all cases to any applicable grace period provided herein), and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. Each Guarantor agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection.
          (b) The Guarantors hereby agree that, to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law, their obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor. Subject to Section 6.06, each Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that this Note Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and this Indenture.
 
          (c) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to any of the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by any of them to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
          (d) Each Guarantor agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Six for the purposes of this Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article Six hereof, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Note Guarantee. The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Note Guarantee.
Section 10.02. .
Limitation on Guarantor Liability
          Each Guarantor, and by its acceptance of Notes, each Holder, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such parties that the Note Guarantee of such Guarantor not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to its Note Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Trustee, the Holders and the Guarantors hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such Guarantor will be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under this Article Ten, result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Note Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
Section 10.03. .
Execution and Delivery of Note Guarantee
          (a) If an Officer of a Guarantor whose signature is on this Indenture no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note, the Note Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless.
          (b) The delivery of any Note by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due delivery of the Note Guarantee set forth in this Indenture on behalf of the Guarantors.
          (c) If required by Section 4.18, the Company shall cause such Subsidiaries to execute supplemental indentures to this Indenture and Note Guarantees in accordance with Section 4.18 and this Article Ten, to the extent applicable.
 
Section 10.04. .
Guarantors May Consolidate, Etc., on Certain Terms
          (a) A Guarantor may not sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person), another Person, other than the Company or another Guarantor, unless:
     (i) immediately after giving effect to that transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and
     (ii) either:
     (A) the Person acquiring the property in any such sale or disposition or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Guarantor) is organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia and assumes all the obligations of that Guarantor under this Indenture, its Note Guarantee and the Registration Rights Agreement pursuant to a supplemental indenture satisfactory to the Trustee; or
     (B) such sale or other disposition or consolidation or merger complies with Section 4.10.
          (b) In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the Note Guarantee and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Indenture to be performed by a Guarantor, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for a Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. All the Note Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Indenture as the Note Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture as though all of such Note Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
          (c) Except as set forth in Article Five, and notwithstanding clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 10.04(a), nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor.
Section 10.05. .
Release of Guarantor
          (a) The Note Guarantee of a Guarantor shall be released:
     (i) in connection with any transaction permitted by this Indenture after which such Guarantor would no longer constitute a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, if the sale of Capital Stock, if any, complies with Section 4.10;
     (ii) if the Company properly designates any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Guarantor as an Unrestricted Subsidiary under this Indenture;
 
     (iii) upon satisfaction and discharge of the Notes as set forth under Section 11.01 or upon defeasance of the Notes as set forth under Article 8; or
     (iv) solely in the case of a Note Guarantee created pursuant to Section 4.18, upon the release or discharge of the Guarantee which resulted in the creation of such Note Guarantee pursuant to this Section 4.18, except a discharge or release by or as a result of payment under such Guarantee.
          (b) Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Note Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under this Indenture as provided in this Article Ten.
Section 11.01. .
Satisfaction and Discharge
          (a) This Indenture shall be discharged and shall cease to be of further effect as to all Notes issued hereunder, when:
     (i) either:
     (A) all Notes that have been authenticated (except lost, stolen or destroyed Notes that have been replaced or paid and Notes for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Company) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
     (B) all Notes that have not been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable by reason of the mailing of a notice of redemption or otherwise or will become due and payable within one year and the Company or any Guarantor has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust solely for the benefit of the Holders, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient without consideration of any reinvestment of interest, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on the Notes not delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for principal, premium and Additional Interest, if any, and accrued interest to the date of maturity or redemption;
     (ii) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or shall occur as a result of such deposit and such deposit shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other instrument to which the Company or any Guarantor are a party or by which the Company or any Guarantor is bound;
     (iii) the Company or any Guarantor have paid or caused to be paid all sums payable by it under this Indenture; and
 
     (iv) the Company has delivered irrevocable instructions to the Trustee under this Indenture to apply the deposited money toward the payment of the Notes at maturity or the redemption date, as the case may be.
          (b) In addition, the Company must deliver an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the Trustee stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge have been satisfied.
          (c) Notwithstanding the above, the Trustee shall pay to the Company from time to time upon its request any cash or Government Securities held by it as provided in this section which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect a satisfaction and discharge under this Article Eleven.
          (d) After the conditions to discharge contained in this Article Eleven have been satisfied, and the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, and delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge have been satisfied, the Trustee upon written request shall acknowledge in writing the discharge of the obligations of the Company and the Guarantors under this Indenture (except for those surviving obligations specified Section 11.01).
Section 11.02. .
Deposited Money and Government Securities to Be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions
          Subject to Section 11.03 hereof, all money and non-callable Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.01 hereof in respect of the outstanding Notes shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Notes of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium and Additional Interest, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Section 11.03. .
Repayment to the Company
          Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium and Additional Interest, if any, or interest on any Note and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, and premium or Additional Interest, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on their request or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Note shall thereafter look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in the New York Times or The Wall Street Journal
provided
however
 
(national edition), notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining shall be repaid to the Company.
Section 12.01. .
Trust Indenture Act Controls
          If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by TIA Section 318(c), the imposed duties shall control.
Section 12.02. .
Notices
          (a) Any notice or communication by the Company or any Guarantor, on the one hand, or the Trustee on the other hand, to the other is duly given if in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telecopier or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address:
If to the Company and/or any Guarantor:
ALLTEL Holding Corp. 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, Arkansas 72212-2442
Facsimile: (501) 748-7400 Attention: John Fletcher
with a copy to:
Kirkland & Ellis LLP Citigroup Center 153 East 53 Street New York, New York 10022
rd
Facsimile: (212) 446-6460 Attention: Joshua N. Korff, Esq.
If to the Trustee:
SunTrust Bank Corporate Trust Department 25 Park Place, 24th Floor Atlanta, Georgia 30303 Facsimile: (404) 588-7335
          (b) The Company, the Guarantors or the Trustee, by notice to the others may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
          (c) All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; three Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
          (d) Any notice or communication to a Holder shall be mailed by first class mail, certified or registered, return receipt requested, or by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery to its address shown on the register kept by the Registrar. Any notice or communication shall also be so mailed to any Person described in TIA Section 313(c), to the extent required by the TIA. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.
          (e) Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance on such waiver.
          (f) In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
          (g) If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
          (h) If the Company mails a notice or communication to Holders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time.
Section 12.03. .
Communication by Holders of Notes with Other Holders of Notes
          Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and any other Person shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c).
Section 12.04. .
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
          Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
     (i) an Officers' Certificate (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent and covenants, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been satisfied; and
     (ii) an Opinion of Counsel (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of such counsel (who may rely upon an
 
Officers' Certificate or certificates of public officials as to matters of fact), all such conditions precedent and covenants have been satisfied.
Section 12.05. .
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
          (a) Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to TIA Section 314(a)(4)) shall comply with the provisions of TIA Section 314(e) and shall include:
          (i) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition;
          (ii) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
          (iii) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
          (iv) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
Section 12.06. .
Rules by Trustee and Agents
          The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Registrar or Paying Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions.
Section 12.07. .
No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders
          No director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder, member, manager or partner of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or the Guarantors under the Notes, this Indenture, the Note Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes. The waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws.
Section 12.08. .
Governing Law
          THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS INDENTURE AND THE NOTES.
Section 12.09. .
Consent to Jurisdiction
          Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Indenture or the transactions contemplated hereby ("") may be instituted in the federal
Related Proceedings
 
courts of the United States of America located in the City of New York or the courts of the State of New York in each case located in the City of New York (collectively, the ""), and each party irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such suit, action or proceeding. Service of any process, summons, notice or document by mail (to the extent allowed under any applicable statute or rule of court) to such party's address set forth above shall be effective service of process for any suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court. The parties irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any suit, action or other proceeding in the Specified Courts and irrevocably and unconditionally waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Specified Courts
Section 12.10. .
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
          This Indenture may not be used to interpret any other indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or of any other Person. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
Section 12.11. .
Successors
          All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors. All agreements of each Guarantor in this Indenture shall bind such Guarantor's successors, except as otherwise provided in Section 10.04.
Section 12.12. .
Severability
          In case any provision in this Indenture or the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 12.13. .
Counterpart Originals
          The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Section 12.14. .
Acts of Holders
          (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by the Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agents duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company if made in the manner provided in this Section 12.14.
Act
 
          (b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to such witness, notary or officer the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
          (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 12.14, the principal amount and serial numbers of Notes held by any Holder, and the date of holding the same, shall be proved by the register of the Notes maintained by the Registrar as provided in Section 2.04.
          (d) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders of the Notes of any series any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to resolutions of its Board of Directors, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders of Notes of such series entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. Notwithstanding TIA Section 316(c), such record date shall be the record date specified in or pursuant to such resolution, which shall be a date not earlier than the date 30 days prior to the first solicitation of Holders of Notes of such series generally in connection therewith or the date of the most recent list of Holders of Notes of such series forwarded to the Trustee prior to such solicitation pursuant to Section 2.06 and not later than the date such solicitation is completed. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record of Notes of such series at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders of Notes of such series for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of the then outstanding Notes of such series have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the then outstanding Notes of such series shall be computed as of such record date; that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders of Notes of such series on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than eleven months after the record date.
provided
          (e) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Note shall bind every future Holder of the same Note and the Holder of every Note issued upon the registration or transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Note.
          (f) Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Note may do so itself with regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Note or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such principal amount.
 
Section 12.15. .
Benefit of Indenture
          Nothing in this Indenture or the Notes, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Paying Agent, any Registrar and its successors hereunder, and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Section 12.16. .
Table of Contents, Headings, Etc
          The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Indenture and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Indenture as of July 17, 2006.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A-1
[THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.07 OF THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.07(a) OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.12 OF THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.]
THIS NOTE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS NOTE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE OFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. THE HOLDER OF THIS NOTE BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS NOTE HEREON (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS NOTE) (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE NOTES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A"), TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER (i) PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) PRIOR TO THE END OF THE 40 DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S
 
UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (E) PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND (ii) IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THIS NOTE IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF A HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
[THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S GLOBAL NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN).]
 
Issue Date:
          ALLTEL Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation, (the "," which term includes any successor under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, promises to pay to [                    ], or its registered assigns, the principal sum of $[] on August 1, 2016.
Company
                    
Interest Payment Dates: February 1 and August 1, commencing [].
                    
Record Dates: January 15 and July 15.
          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company have caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.
 
This is one of the 8/% Senior Notes due 2016 described in the within-mentioned Indenture.
5
8
Dated: []
                    
                    
SUNTRUST BANK, as Trustee
 
          Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
          1. . The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this 2016 Note at 8.625% per annum from the date hereof until maturity and shall pay the Additional Interest, if any, payable pursuant to Section 2.5 of the Registration Rights Agreement referred to below. The Company shall pay interest and Additional Interest, if any, semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an ""). Interest on the 2016 Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of original issuance; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this 2016 Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; that the first Interest Payment Date shall be []. The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal from time to time on demand at a rate that is 1% per annum in excess of the rate then in effect; they shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Additional Interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
Interest Payment Date
provided
provided further
                    
          2. . The Company shall pay interest on the 2016 Notes (except defaulted interest) and Additional Interest, if any, to the Persons who are registered Holders of 2016 Notes at the close of business on the record date immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such 2016 Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.13 of the Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. If a Holder has given wire transfer instructions to the Company, the Company shall pay all principal, interest and premium and Additional Interest, if any, on that Holder's 2016 Notes in accordance with those instructions. All other payments on 2016 Notes shall be made at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar within the United States of America unless the Company elects to make interest payments by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Method of Payment
          3. . Initially, the Trustee under the Indenture shall act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without prior notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
          4. . The Company issued the 2016 Notes under an Indenture dated as of July 17, 2006 ("") among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee. The terms of the 2016 Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. The 2016 Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this 2016 Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling. The Indenture pursuant to which this 2016 Note is issued provides that an unlimited aggregate principal amount of Additional Notes of the same series may be issued thereunder.
Indenture
Indenture
          5. . The Company shall not have the option to redeem the 2016 Notes prior to August 1, 2011. On or after August 1, 2011, the Company may redeem all or part of the 2016 Notes upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, thereon to the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1 of the years indicated below:
Optional Redemption
          6. . (a) If a Change of Control occurs, each Holder of 2016 Notes shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000) of that Holder's 2016 Notes pursuant to an offer by the Company (a "") at an offer price (a "") in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, thereon, to the date of purchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control and offering to repurchase 2016 Notes on a date (the "") specified in such notice, which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture and described in such notice.
Repurchase at Option of Holder
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
          (b) Within 365 days after the receipt of any Net Proceeds from an Asset Sale, the Company or Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may apply such Net Proceeds at its option: to repay (A) Indebtedness secured by assets of the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries (to the extent of the value of the assets securing such Indebtedness), (B) Obligations under the Credit Agreement or (C) Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company that is not a Guarantor (to the extent of the value of the assets of such Restricted Subsidiary); or to purchase Replacement Assets. Pending the final application of any such Net Proceeds, the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries may temporarily reduce revolving credit borrowings or otherwise invest such Net Proceeds in any manner that is not prohibited by this Indenture.
 
          On the 366th day after an Asset Sale or such earlier date, if any, as the Company determines not to apply the Net Proceeds relating to such Asset Sale as set forth in Section 4.10(b) (each such date being referred as an ""), such aggregate amount of Net Proceeds that has not been applied on or before the Excess Proceeds Trigger Date as permitted pursuant to Section 4.10(b) ("") shall be applied by the Company to make an offer (an "") to all Holders of 2016 Notes and all holders of other Indebtedness that is with the 2016 Notes or any Note Guarantee containing provisions similar to those set forth in this Indenture with respect to offers to purchase with the proceeds of sales of assets, to purchase the maximum principal amount of 2016 Notes and such other Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds. The offer price in any Asset Sale Offer shall be equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2016 Notes and such other Indebtedness plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to the date of purchase, and shall be payable in cash. The Company may defer the Asset Sale Offer until there are aggregate unutilized Excess Proceeds equal to or in excess of $30.0 million resulting from one or more Asset Sales, at which time the entire unutilized amount of Excess Proceeds (not only the amount in excess of $30.0 million) shall be applied as provided in Section 4.10(c) of the Indenture. If any Excess Proceeds remain after consummation of an Asset Sale Offer, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries may use such Excess Proceeds for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by this Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of 2016 Notes and such other Indebtedness tendered into such Asset Sale Offer exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the 2016 Notes and such other Indebtedness shall be purchased on a pro rata basis based on the principal amount of 2016 Notes and such other Indebtedness tendered. Upon completion of each Asset Sale Offer, the Excess Proceeds subject to such Asset Sale shall no longer be deemed to be Excess Proceeds.
Excess Proceeds Trigger Date
Excess Proceeds
Asset Sale Offer
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
          7. . The 2016 Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000. The transfer of 2016 Notes may be registered and 2016 Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Company is not required to transfer or exchange any 2016 Note selected for redemption. Also, the Company is not required to transfer or exchange any 2016 Note (1) for a period of 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of 2016 Notes to be redeemed or (2) tendered and not withdrawn in connection with a Change of Control Offer or an Asset Sale Offer. Transfer may be restricted as provided in the Indenture.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
          8. . The registered Holder of a 2016 Note will be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
          9. . Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture, or the 2016 Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the 2016 Notes then outstanding (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, 2016 Notes), and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the 2016 Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding 2016 Notes (including, without limitation, consents obtained in
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
 
connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, 2016 Notes). Without the consent of any Holder of a 2016 Note, the Indenture, or the 2016 Notes may be amended or supplemented to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, or make any change that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such Holder.
          10. . In the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to (i) the Company or (ii) any Significant Subsidiary of the Company (or any Restricted Subsidiaries that together would constitute a Significant Subsidiary), all outstanding 2016 Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If any other Event of Default occurs and is continuing with respect to the 2016 Notes, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding 2016 Notes may declare all the 2016 Notes to be due and payable immediately by notice in writing to the Company specifying the Event of Default. In the event of a declaration of acceleration of the 2016 Notes because an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as a result of the acceleration of any Indebtedness described in Section 6.01(a)(vi) of the Indenture, the declaration of acceleration of the 2016 Notes shall be automatically annulled if the holders of all Indebtedness described in Section 6.01(a)(vi) of the Indenture have rescinded the declaration of acceleration in respect of such Indebtedness within 30 Business Days of the date of such declaration, and if the annulment of the acceleration of the 2016 Notes would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, and all existing Events of Default, except non-payment of principal or interest on the 2016 Notes that became due solely because of the acceleration of the 2016 Notes, have been cured or waived.
Defaults and Remedies
          In the case of any Event of Default occurring by reason of any willful action or inaction taken or not taken by or on behalf of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries with the intention of avoiding payment of the premium that the Company would have had to pay if the Company then had elected to redeem the 2016 Notes pursuant to Section 3.07 of the Indenture, an equivalent premium shall also become and be immediately due and payable to the extent permitted by law upon the acceleration of the 2016 Notes.
          Holders of the 2016 Notes may not enforce the Indenture or the 2016 Notes except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding 2016 Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the 2016 Notes notice of any Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest or Additional Interest) if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of the 2016 Notes. If certain conditions are satisfied, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the 2016 Notes then outstanding by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the 2016 Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture, except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest or Additional Interest on, or the principal of, the 2016 Notes.
          11. . The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of 2016 Notes and may become a creditor of, or otherwise deal with the Company or any of its Affiliates, with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Company
 
          12. . No director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder, member, manager or partner of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or the Guarantors under the 2016 Notes, this Indenture, the Note Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of 2016 Notes by accepting a 2016 Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the 2016 Notes. The waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws.
No Recourse Against Others
          13. . This 2016 Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
          14. . In addition to the rights provided to Holders under the Indenture, Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes shall have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of the date of the Indenture, by and among the Company, the Guarantors and the parties named on the signature pages thereof, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time and, with respect to any Additional Notes, one or more registration rights agreements between the Company and the other parties thereto, as such agreement(s) may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, relating to rights given by the Company to the purchasers of Additional Notes to register such Additional Notes under the Securities Act (the "").
Additional Rights of Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes
Registration Rights Agreement
          15. . Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the 2016 Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the 2016 Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP Numbers
          16. . The Company's obligations under the 2016 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by the Guarantors.
Guarantee
          17. . The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture and/or the Registration Rights Agreement. Requests may be made to:
Copies of Documents
ALLTEL Holding Corp. 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, Arkansas 72212-2442 Facsimile: (504) 748-7400 Attention: John Fletcher
 
with a copy to:
Kirkland & Ellis LLP Citigroup Center 153 East 53 Street New York, New York 10022 Facsimile: (212) 446-6460 Attention: Joshua N. Korff, Esq.
rd
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint to transfer this 2016 Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Date:
                    
                    
Signature Guarantee*:
                    
                    
 
 
          If you want to elect to have this 2016 Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or 4.14 of the Indenture, check the appropriate box below:
          If you want to elect to have only part of the 2016 Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or Section 4.14 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
Date:
                    
Tax Identification No.:
                    
                    
                    
Signature Guarantee*:
                    
                    
 
 
          The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
          The following exchanges of a part of this Regulation S Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or of other Restricted Global Notes for an interest in this Regulation S Global Note, have been made:
 
EXHIBIT A-2
[THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.07 OF THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.07(a) OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.12 OF THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.]
THIS NOTE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS NOTE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE OFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. THE HOLDER OF THIS NOTE BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS NOTE HEREON (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS NOTE) (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE NOTES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A"), TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER (i) PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) PRIOR TO THE END OF THE 40 DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S
 
UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (E) PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND (ii) IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THIS NOTE IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF A HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
[THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S GLOBAL NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN).]
 
Issue Date:
          Windstream Corporation, a Delaware corporation, (the "," which term includes any successor under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, promises to pay to [                    ], or its registered assigns, the principal sum of $[] on August 1, 2013.
Company
                    
Interest Payment Dates: February 1 and August 1, commencing [].
                    
Record Dates: January 15 and July 15.
          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company have caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.
 
This is one of the 8/% Senior Notes due 2013 described in the within-mentioned Indenture.
1
8
Dated: []
                    
SUNTRUST BANK, as Trustee
 
          Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
          1. . The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this 2013 Note at 8.125% per annum from the date hereof until maturity and shall pay the Additional Interest, if any, payable pursuant to Section 2.5 of the Registration Rights Agreement referred to below. The Company shall pay interest and Additional Interest, if any, semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an ""). Interest on the 2013 Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of original issuance; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this 2013 Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; that the first Interest Payment Date shall be []. The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal from time to time on demand at a rate that is 1% per annum in excess of the rate then in effect; they shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Additional Interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
Interest Payment Date
provided
provided further
                    
          2. . The Company shall pay interest on the 2013 Notes (except defaulted interest) and Additional Interest, if any, to the Persons who are registered Holders of 2013 Notes at the close of business on the record date immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such 2013 Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.13 of the Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. If a Holder has given wire transfer instructions to the Company, the Company shall pay all principal, interest and premium and Additional Interest, if any, on that Holder's 2013 Notes in accordance with those instructions. All other payments on 2013 Notes shall be made at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar within the United States of America unless the Company elects to make interest payments by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Method of Payment
          3. . Initially, the Trustee under the Indenture shall act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without prior notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
          4. . The Company issued the 2013 Notes under an Indenture dated as of July 17, 2006 ("") among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee. The terms of the 2013 Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. The 2013 Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this 2013 Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling. The Indenture pursuant to which this 2013 Note is issued provides that an unlimited aggregate principal amount of Additional Notes of the same series may be issued thereunder.
Indenture
Indenture
          5. . (a) At any time prior to August 1, 2009, the Company may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of 2013 Notes issued under the Indenture (including any Additional Notes) at a redemption price of 108.125% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, thereon to the applicable redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more Equity Offerings; that (1) at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of 2013 Notes issued under the Indenture (including any Additional Notes) remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption, excluding 2013 Notes held by the Company and its Subsidiaries; and (2) the redemption must occur within 90 days of the date of the closing of such Equity Offering.
Optional Redemption
provided
          (b) At any time, the Company may redeem all or part of the 2013 Notes of the same series upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) 100% of the principal amount thereof, (ii) the Applicable Premium as of the date of redemption, (iii) accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to the date of redemption.
plus
plus
          6. . (a) If a Change of Control occurs, each Holder of 2013 Notes shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000) of that Holder's 2013 Notes pursuant to an offer by the Company (a "") at an offer price (a "") in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, thereon, to the date of purchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control and offering to repurchase 2013 Notes on a date (the "") specified in such notice, which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture and described in such notice.
Repurchase at Option of Holder
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
          (b) Within 365 days after the receipt of any Net Proceeds from an Asset Sale, the Company or Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may apply such Net Proceeds at its option: to repay (A) Indebtedness secured by assets of the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries (to the extent of the value of the assets securing such Indebtedness), (B) Obligations under the Credit Agreement or (C) Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company that is not a Guarantor (to the extent of the value of the assets of such Restricted
 
Subsidiary); or to purchase Replacement Assets. Pending the final application of any such Net Proceeds, the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries may temporarily reduce revolving credit borrowings or otherwise invest such Net Proceeds in any manner that is not prohibited by this Indenture.
          On the 366th day after an Asset Sale or such earlier date, if any, as the Company determines not to apply the Net Proceeds relating to such Asset Sale as set forth in Section 4.10(b) (each such date being referred as an ""), such aggregate amount of Net Proceeds that has not been applied on or before the Excess Proceeds Trigger Date as permitted pursuant to Section 4.10(b) ("") shall be applied by the Company to make an offer (an "") to all Holders of 2013 Notes and all holders of other Indebtedness that is with the 2013 Notes or any Note Guarantee containing provisions similar to those set forth in this Indenture with respect to offers to purchase with the proceeds of sales of assets, to purchase the maximum principal amount of 2013 Notes and such other Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds. The offer price in any Asset Sale Offer shall be equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2013 Notes and such other Indebtedness plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to the date of purchase, and shall be payable in cash. The Company may defer the Asset Sale Offer until there are aggregate unutilized Excess Proceeds equal to or in excess of $30.0 million resulting from one or more Asset Sales, at which time the entire unutilized amount of Excess Proceeds (not only the amount in excess of $30.0 million) shall be applied as provided in Section 4.10(c) of the Indenture. If any Excess Proceeds remain after consummation of an Asset Sale Offer, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries may use such Excess Proceeds for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by this Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of 2013 Notes and such other Indebtedness tendered into such Asset Sale Offer exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the 2013 Notes and such other Indebtedness shall be purchased on a pro rata basis based on the principal amount of 2013 Notes and such other Indebtedness tendered. Upon completion of each Asset Sale Offer, the Excess Proceeds subject to such Asset Sale shall no longer be deemed to be Excess Proceeds.
Excess Proceeds Trigger Date
Excess Proceeds
Asset Sale Offer
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
          7. . The 2013 Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000. The transfer of 2013 Notes may be registered and 2013 Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Company is not required to transfer or exchange any 2013 Note selected for redemption. Also, the Company is not required to transfer or exchange any 2013 Note (1) for a period of 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of 2013 Notes to be redeemed or (2) tendered and not withdrawn in connection with a Change of Control Offer or an Asset Sale Offer. Transfer may be restricted as provided in the Indenture.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
          8. . The registered Holder of a 2013 Note will be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
          9. . Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture, or the 2013 Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
 
of at least a majority in principal amount of the 2013 Notes then outstanding (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, 2013 Notes), and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the 2013 Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding 2013 Notes (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, 2013 Notes). Without the consent of any Holder of a 2013 Note, the Indenture, or the 2013 Notes may be amended or supplemented to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, or make any change that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such Holder.
          10. . In the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to (i) the Company or (ii) any Significant Subsidiary of the Company (or any Restricted Subsidiaries that together would constitute a Significant Subsidiary), all outstanding 2013 Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If any other Event of Default occurs and is continuing with respect to the 2013 Notes, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding 2013 Notes may declare all the 2013 Notes to be due and payable immediately by notice in writing to the Company specifying the Event of Default. In the event of a declaration of acceleration of the 2013 Notes because an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as a result of the acceleration of any Indebtedness described in Section 6.01(a)(vi) of the Indenture, the declaration of acceleration of the 2013 Notes shall be automatically annulled if the holders of all Indebtedness described in Section 6.01(a)(vi) of the Indenture have rescinded the declaration of acceleration in respect of such Indebtedness within 30 Business Days of the date of such declaration, and if the annulment of the acceleration of the 2013 Notes would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, and all existing Events of Default, except non-payment of principal or interest on the 2013 Notes that became due solely because of the acceleration of the 2013 Notes, have been cured or waived.
Defaults and Remedies
          In the case of any Event of Default occurring by reason of any willful action or inaction taken or not taken by or on behalf of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries with the intention of avoiding payment of the premium that the Company would have had to pay if the Company then had elected to redeem the 2013 Notes pursuant to Section 3.07 of the Indenture, an equivalent premium shall also become and be immediately due and payable to the extent permitted by law upon the acceleration of the 2013 Notes.
          Holders of the 2013 Notes may not enforce the Indenture or the 2013 Notes except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding 2013 Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the 2013 Notes notice of any Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest or Additional Interest) if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of the 2013 Notes. If certain conditions are satisfied, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the 2013 Notes then outstanding by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the 2013 Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture, except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest or Additional Interest on, or the principal of, the 2013 Notes.
 
          11. . The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of 2013 Notes and may become a creditor of, or otherwise deal with the Company or any of its Affiliates, with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Company
          12. . No director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder, member, manager or partner of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or the Guarantors under the 2013 Notes, this Indenture, the Note Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of 2013 Notes by accepting a 2013 Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the 2013 Notes. The waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws.
No Recourse Against Others
          13. . This 2013 Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
          14. . In addition to the rights provided to Holders under the Indenture, Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes shall have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of the date of the Indenture, by and among the Company, the Guarantors and the parties named on the signature pages thereof, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time and, with respect to any Additional Notes, one or more registration rights agreements between the Company and the other parties thereto, as such agreement(s) may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, relating to rights given by the Company to the purchasers of Additional Notes to register such Additional Notes under the Securities Act (the "").
Additional Rights of Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes
Registration Rights Agreement
          15. . Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the 2013 Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the 2013 Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP Numbers
          16. . The Company's obligations under the 2013 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by the Guarantors.
Guarantee
 
          17. . The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture and/or the Registration Rights Agreement. Requests may be made to:
Copies of Documents
ALLTEL Holding Corp. 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, Arkansas 72212-2442 Facsimile: (504) 748-7400 Attention: John Fletcher
with a copy to:
Kirkland & Ellis LLP Citigroup Center 153 East 53 Street New York, New York 10022 Facsimile: (212) 446-6460 Attention: Joshua N. Korff, Esq.
rd
 
          To assign this 2013 Note, fill in the form below:
to transfer this 2013 Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
Date:
                    
Signature Guarantee*:
                    
                    
 
 
          If you want to elect to have this 2013 Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or 4.14 of the Indenture, check the appropriate box below:
          If you want to elect to have only part of the 2013 Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or Section 4.14 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
Date:
                    
Signature Guarantee*:
                    
                    
 
 
          The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
          The following exchanges of a part of this Regulation S Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or of other Restricted Global Notes for an interest in this Regulation S Global Note, have been made:
 
EXHIBIT B
Windstream Corporation 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, Arkansas 72212-2442 Facsimile: (501) 748-7400 Attention: John Fletcher
SunTrust Bank Corporate Trust Department 25 Park Place, 24th Floor Atlanta, Georgia 30303 Facsimile: [(404) 588-7335]
          Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2006 (the ""), among Windstream Corporation (as successor to ALLTEL Holding Corp.), a Delaware corporation, (the ""), the Guarantors, and SunTrust Bank, as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
           (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount at maturity of $ in such Note[s] or interests (the ""), to (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
                    
                    
Transferor
                    
Transfer
                    
                    
Transferee
       1. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Definitive Note Pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
 
       2. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Legended Regulation S Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Legended Regulation S Global Note, or a Definitive Note pursuant to Regulation S
       3. . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
o
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 144A or Regulation S
       (a) such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or
o
       (b) such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of to the Indenture and (2) an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Definitive Notes and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Exhibit D
 
          4. .
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Note
       (a) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Rule 144. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
o
       (b) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and, in the case of a transfer from a Restricted Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (a) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (b) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (c) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (d) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person, and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
o
       (c) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes or Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
o
 
     This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
EXHIBIT C
Windstream Corporation 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, Arkansas 72212-2442 Facsimile: (501) 748-7400 Attention: John Fletcher
SunTrust Bank Corporate Trust Department 25 Park Place, 24th Floor Atlanta, Georgia 30303 Facsimile: [(404) 588-7335]
          Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2006 (the ""), among Windstream Corporation (as successor to ALLTEL Holding Corp.), a Delaware corporation, (the ""), the Guarantors, and SunTrust Bank, as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
           (the "") owns and proposes to exchange the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount at maturity of $__________________ in such Note[s] or interests (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
                    
                    
Owner
Exchange
          1. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Unrestricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
      (a) Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note in an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
Securities Act
     (b) Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial
o
 
interest in a Restricted Global Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
      (c) Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
      (d) Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
          2. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
      (a) Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Restricted Definitive Note. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a Restricted Definitive Note with an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
      (b) Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] :
o
 
with an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
          This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
EXHIBIT D
Windstream Corporation 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, Arkansas 72212-2442 Facsimile: (501) 748-7400 Attention: John Fletcher
SunTrust Bank Corporate Trust Department 25 Park Place, 24th Floor Atlanta, Georgia 30303 Facsimile: [(404) 588-7335]
          Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2006 (the ""), among Windstream Corporation (as successor to ALLTEL Holding Corp.), a Delaware corporation, (the ""), the Guarantors, and SunTrust Bank, as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
          In connection with our proposed purchase of $ aggregate principal amount of:
                    
                    
          we confirm that:
          1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
          2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we shall do so only (A) to the Company or any subsidiary thereof, (B) in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined therein), (C) to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined below) that, prior to
 
such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to you and to the Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (D) outside the United States in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any person purchasing the Definitive Note or beneficial interest in a Global Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein.
          3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect.
          4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
          5. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "accredited investor") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
          The Trustee and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
EXHIBIT E-1
          Supplemental Indenture (this ""), dated as of , among (the ""), a subsidiary of Windstream Corporation (as successor to ALLTEL Holding Corp.), a Delaware corporation (or its permitted successor) (the ""), and SunTrust Bank, a state bank organized under the laws of the State of Georgia (or its permitted successor), as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
                    
                    
Guaranteeing Subsidiary
Company
Trustee
          WHEREAS, the Company and the other Guarantors party thereto have heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture (the ""), dated as of July 17, 2006 providing for the issuance of the Company's 8/% Senior Notes due 2016 and 8/% Senior Notes due 2013 (the "");
Indenture
5
8
1
8
Notes
          WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall, subject to Article Ten of the Indenture, unconditionally guarantee the Notes on the terms and conditions set forth therein (the ""); and
Note Guarantee
          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
          NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee agree as follows for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes:
          1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Capitalized Terms
          2. .
Agreement to Guarantee
          (a) Subject to Article Ten of the Indenture, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of the Indenture, the Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that:
   (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes, if lawful (subject in all
 
cases to any applicable grace period provided herein), and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
   (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. The Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection.
          (b) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees that, to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law, its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor.
          (c) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary, subject to Section 6.06 of the Indenture, hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that this Note Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and the Indenture.
          (d) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors, or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to any of the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by any of them to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
          (e) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby.
          (f) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Six of the Indenture for the purposes of the Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article Six of the Indenture, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of the Note Guarantee.
 
          (g) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Note Guarantee.
          (h) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary confirms, pursuant to Section 10.02 of the Indenture, that it is the intention of such Guaranteeing Subsidiary that the Note Guarantee not constitute (i) a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to the Note Guarantee or (ii) an unlawful distribution under any applicable state law prohibiting shareholder distributions by an insolvent subsidiary to the extent applicable to the Note Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary will be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guaranteeing Subsidiary that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under Article Ten of the Indenture, result in the obligations of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Note Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance or such an unlawful shareholder distribution.
          3. . The Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that the Note Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of the Note Guarantee.
Execution and Delivery
          4. . The Guaranteeing Subsidiary may not sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into, any Person other than as set forth in Section 10.04 of the Indenture.
Guaranteeing Subsidiary May Consolidate, Etc., on Certain Terms
          5. . The Guaranteeing Subsidiary's Note Guarantee shall be released as set forth in Section 10.05 of the Indenture.
Release
          6. . Pursuant to Section 12.07 of the Indenture, no director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall have any liability for any obligations of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Notes, the Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture, the Note Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. This waiver and release are part of the consideration for the Note Guarantee.
No Recourse Against Others
          7. . THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE.
NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN
          8. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
          9. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
          10. . The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Company.
Trustee
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
 
EXHIBIT E-2
          Supplemental Indenture (this ""), dated as of , among Windstream Corporation (as the surviving entity of the Merger referred to below), a Delaware corporation (or its permitted successor) (the ""), the Company's subsidiaries identified as "Guaranteeing Subsidiaries" on the signature pages hereto (the "" and each, a ""), and SunTrust Bank, a state bank organized under the laws of the State of Georgia (or its permitted successor), as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
                    
Company
Guaranteeing Subsidiaries
Guaranteeing Subsidiary
Trustee
          WHEREAS, ALLTEL Holding Corp. (the "") and the other Guarantors party thereto have heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture (the ""), dated as of July 17, 2006 providing for the issuance of 8/% Senior Notes due 2016 and 8/% Senior Notes due 2013 (the "");
Original Issuer
Indenture
5
8
1
8
Notes
          WHEREAS, the Original Issuer, ALLTEL Corporation and Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("") have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of December 8, 2005, as amended (the "") pursuant to which the Original Issuer has merged with and into Valor, with the surviving entity changing its name to "Windstream Corporation" (the "");
Valor
Merger Agreement
Merger
          WHEREAS, Article Five of the Indenture prohibits the consummation of the Merger unless the requirements, restrictions and conditions set forth in such Article Five are satisfied, including the requirements that the Company expressly assumes the obligations of the Original Issuer under the Indenture and the Notes and that each of the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries who are parties to the Indenture (the "") confirms that its Note Guarantee shall apply to the obligations of the Company in accordance with the Notes and the Indenture;
Existing Guaranteeing Subsidiary
          WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries who are not already parties to the Indenture (the "" and each, a "") shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which such New Guaranteeing Subsidiaries shall, subject to Article Ten of the Indenture, unconditionally guarantee the Notes on the terms and conditions set forth therein (the ""); and
New Guaranteeing Subsidiaries
New Guaranteeing Subsidiary
Note Guarantee
          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
          NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company, the
 
Guaranteeing Subsidiaries and the Trustee agree as follows for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes:
          1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Capitalized Terms
          2. .
Company's Agreement to Assume Obligations
          The Company hereby expressly assumes the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes, and the performance and observance of each and every covenant and condition of the Indenture and the Notes on the part of the Company to be performed or observed, to the same extent as if the Company has been named as the "Company" in the Indenture. All references in the Indenture and the Notes to the "Company" shall hereafter refer to the Company and its successors.
          2. .
New Guaranteeing Subsidiaries' Agreement to Guarantee
          (a) Subject to Article Ten of the Indenture, each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of the Indenture, the Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that:
     (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes, if lawful (subject in all cases to any applicable grace period provided herein), and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
     (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection.
          (b) Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees that, to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law, its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor.
 
          (c) Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary, subject to Section 6.06 of the Indenture, hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that this Note Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and the Indenture.
          (d) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors, or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to any of the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by any of them to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
          (e) Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby.
          (f) Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Six of the Indenture for the purposes of the Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article Six of the Indenture, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of the Note Guarantee.
          (g) Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Note Guarantee.
          (h) Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary confirms, pursuant to Section 10.02 of the Indenture, that it is the intention of such New Guaranteeing Subsidiary that the Note Guarantee not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to the Note Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such New Guaranteeing Subsidiary will be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such New Guaranteeing Subsidiary that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under Article Ten of the Indenture, result in the obligations of such New Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Note Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
          3. . Each Existing Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby confirms that its Note Guarantee shall apply to the obligations of the Company in accordance with the Notes and the Indenture.
Existing Guaranteeing Subsidiaries' Confirmation of Their Note Guarantees
 
          4. . Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that the Note Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of the Note Guarantee.
Execution and Delivery
          5. . None of the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries may sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into, any Person other than as set forth in Section 10.04 of the Indenture.
Guaranteeing Subsidiary May Consolidate, Etc., on Certain Terms
          6. . Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary's Note Guarantee shall be released as set forth in Section 10.05 of the Indenture.
Release
          7. . Pursuant to Section 12.07 of the Indenture, no director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of each Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall have any liability for any obligations of such Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Notes, the Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture, the Note Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. This waiver and release are part of the consideration for the Note Guarantee.
No Recourse Against Others
          8. . THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE.
NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN
          9. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterparts
          10. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
          11. . The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries and the Company.
Trustee
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
 
 

 
Exhibit 4.4
          First Supplemental Indenture (this ""), dated as of July 17, 2006, among Windstream Corporation (as the surviving entity of the Merger referred to below), a Delaware corporation (or its permitted successor) (the ""), the Company's subsidiaries identified as "Guaranteeing Subsidiaries" on the signature pages hereto (the "" and each, a ""), and SunTrust Bank, a state bank organized under the laws of the State of Georgia (or its permitted successor), as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Guaranteeing Subsidiaries
Guaranteeing Subsidiary
Trustee
          WHEREAS, ALLTEL Holding Corp. (the "") and the other Guarantors party thereto have heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture (the ""), dated as of July 17, 2006 providing for the issuance of 8/% Senior Notes due 2016 and 8/% Senior Notes due 2013 (the "");
Original Issuer
Indenture
5
8
1
8
Notes
          WHEREAS, the Original Issuer, ALLTEL Corporation and Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("") have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of December 8, 2005, as amended (the "") pursuant to which the Original Issuer has merged with and into Valor, with the surviving entity changing its name to "Windstream Corporation" (the "");
Valor
Merger Agreement
Merger
          WHEREAS, Article Five of the Indenture prohibits the consummation of the Merger unless the requirements, restrictions and conditions set forth in such Article Five are satisfied, including the requirements that the Company expressly assumes the obligations of the Original Issuer under the Indenture and the Notes and that each of the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries who are parties to the Indenture (the "") confirms that its Note Guarantee shall apply to the obligations of the Company in accordance with the Notes and the Indenture;
Existing Guaranteeing Subsidiary
          WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries who are not already parties to the Indenture (the "" and each, a "") shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which such New Guaranteeing Subsidiaries shall, subject to Article Ten of the Indenture, unconditionally guarantee the Notes on the terms and conditions set forth therein (the ""); and
New Guaranteeing Subsidiaries
New Guaranteeing Subsidiary
Note Guarantee
          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
          NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company, the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries and the Trustee agree as follows for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes:
 
          1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Capitalized Terms
          2. .
Company's Agreement to Assume Obligations
          The Company hereby expressly assumes the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes, and the performance and observance of each and every covenant and condition of the Indenture and the Notes on the part of the Company to be performed or observed, to the same extent as if the Company has been named as the "Company" in the Indenture. All references in the Indenture and the Notes to the "Company" shall hereafter refer to the Company and its successors.
          2. .
New Guaranteeing Subsidiaries' Agreement to Guarantee
          (a) Subject to Article Ten of the Indenture, each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of the Indenture, the Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that:
     (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes, if lawful (subject in all cases to any applicable grace period provided herein), and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
     (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection.
          (b) Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees that, to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law, its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor.
 
          (c) Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary, subject to Section 6.06 of the Indenture, hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that this Note Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and the Indenture.
          (d) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors, or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to any of the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by any of them to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
          (e) Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby.
          (f) Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Six of the Indenture for the purposes of the Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article Six of the Indenture, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of the Note Guarantee.
          (g) Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Note Guarantee.
          (h) Each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary confirms, pursuant to Section 10.02 of the Indenture, that it is the intention of such New Guaranteeing Subsidiary that the Note Guarantee not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to the Note Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, each New Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such New Guaranteeing Subsidiary will be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such New Guaranteeing Subsidiary that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under Article Ten of the Indenture, result in the obligations of such New Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Note Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
 
          3. . Each Existing Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby confirms that its Note Guarantee shall apply to the obligations of the Company in accordance with the Notes and the Indenture.
Existing Guaranteeing Subsidiaries' Confirmation of Their Note Guarantees
          4. . Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that the Note Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of the Note Guarantee.
Execution and Delivery
          5. . None of the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries may sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into, any Person other than as set forth in Section 10.04 of the Indenture.
Guaranteeing Subsidiary May Consolidate, Etc., on Certain Terms
          6. . Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary's Note Guarantee shall be released as set forth in Section 10.05 of the Indenture.
Release
          7. . Pursuant to Section 12.07 of the Indenture, no director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of each Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall have any liability for any obligations of such Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Notes, the Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture, the Note Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. This waiver and release are part of the consideration for the Note Guarantee.
No Recourse Against Others
          8. . THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE.
NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN
          9. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterparts
          10. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
          11. . The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries and the Company.
Trustee
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 4.5
 
          This Registration Rights Agreement (the "Agreement") is made and entered into this 17 day of July, 2006, among Windstream Corporation (as surviving entity of the merger of ALLTEL Holding Corp. with and into Valor Communications Group, Inc.), a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), the subsidiaries of the Company identified as Guarantors on the signature pages hereto ( the "Guarantors") and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., and, with respect to the 2013 Notes referred to below, Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and Barclays Capital Inc. (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers").
th
          This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated June 28, 2006, among the Company, the Guarantors, the Selling Noteholders and the Initial Purchasers (the "Purchase Agreement"), which provides for the sale by the Company and the Selling Noteholders referred to therein to the Initial Purchasers of an aggregate of $800 million principal amount of the Company's 8.125% Senior Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes") and an aggregate of $1,746,000,000 principal amount of the Company's 8.625% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes" and together with the 2013 Notes, the "Initial Securities"), respectively. In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company and the Guarantors have agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement.
          In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          1. .
Definitions
          As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
     "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
1933 Act
     "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of l934, as amended from time to time.
1934 Act
     "" shall mean the Closing Time as defined in the Purchase Agreement.
Closing Date
 
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Company's successors.
Company
     "" shall mean The Depository Trust Company, or any other depositary appointed by the Company, which depositary must be a clearing agency registered under the 1934 Act.
Depositary
     "" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company of Exchange Securities of each series for Registrable Securities of such series pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof.
Exchange Offer
     "" shall mean a registration under the 1933 Act effected pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration
     "" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form), and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all documents incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 hereof.
Exchange Period
     "" shall mean the 6.125% Senior Exchange Notes due 2013 (the ""), and the 6.625% Senior Exchange Notes due 2016 (the "") issued by the Company and guaranteed by the Guarantors under the Indenture containing terms identical to the applicable series of Initial Securities in all material respects (except for references to certain interest rate provisions, restrictions on transfers and restrictive legends), to be offered to Holders of Initial Securities in exchange for Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Exchange Securities
2013 Exchange Securities
2016 Exchange Securities
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Guarantors' respective successors.
Guarantors
     "" shall mean an Initial Purchaser, for so long as it owns any Registrable Securities, and each of its successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become registered owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture and each Participating Broker-Dealer that holds Exchange Securities for so long as such Participating Broker-Dealer is required to deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
Holder
 
     "" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Initial Securities, dated as of July 17, 2006, among the Company, the Guarantors and SunTrust Bank, as trustee, as the same may be amended, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
     "" or "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial Purchaser
Initial Purchasers
     "" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding (as defined in the Indenture) Registrable Securities of the applicable series; that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities of a series is required hereunder, Registrable Securities held by the Company and other obligors on the Initial Securities or any Affiliate (as defined in the Indenture) of the Company shall be disregarded in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage amount.
Majority Holders
provided
     "" shall mean any of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and Barclays Capital Inc. and any other broker-dealer which makes a market in the Initial Securities and exchanges Registrable Securities in the Exchange Offer for Exchange Securities.
Participating Broker-Dealer
     "" shall mean an individual, partnership (general or limited), corporation, limited liability company, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 hereof.
Private Exchange
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 hereof.
Private Exchange Securities
     "" shall mean the prospectus included in a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including any such prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to a prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and in each case including all material incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
 
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Purchase Agreement
     "" shall mean (i) the Initial Securities and, if issued, the Private Exchange Securities; , that Initial Securities and, if issued, the Private Exchange Securities, shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (1) a Registration Statement with respect to such Initial Securities shall have been declared effective under the 1933 Act and such Initial Securities shall have been disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement, (2) such Initial Securities have been sold to the public pursuant to Rule l44 (or any similar provision then in force, but not Rule 144A) under the 1933 Act, (3) such Initial Securities shall have ceased to be outstanding or (4) the Exchange Offer is consummated (except in the case of Initial Securities purchased from the Company and continued to be held by the Initial Purchasers) and (ii) any Exchange Securities issued to a Participating Broker-Dealer until resold under the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
Registrable Securities
provided, however
     "" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "NASD") registration and filing fees, including, if applicable, the fees and expenses of any "qualified independent underwriter" (and its counsel) that is required to be retained by any holder of Registrable Securities in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws and compliance with the rules of the NASD (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities and any filings with the NASD), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements and other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing, if any, of any of the Registrable Securities on any securities exchange or exchanges, (v) all rating agency fees, (vi) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company or the Guarantors and of the independent public accountants of the Company or the Guarantors, including the expenses of any special audits or "cold comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance and compliance, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, and any escrow agent or custodian, (viii) the reasonable fees and disbursements of Davis Polk & Wardwell, special counsel representing the Holders of Registrable Securities in connection with a Shelf Registration hereunder and (ix) any fees and disbursements of the underwriters customarily
Registration Expenses
 
required to be paid by issuers or sellers of securities and the fees and expenses of any special experts retained by the Company or the Guarantors in connection with any Registration Statement, but excluding underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
     "" shall mean any registration statement of the Company which covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, and all amendments and supplements to any such Registration Statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
     "" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency or government body performing the functions currently performed by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
     "" shall mean Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as selling holders of the 2016 Notes under the Purchase Agreement.
Selling Noteholders
     "" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof.
Shelf Registration
     "" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.2 of this Agreement which covers Registrable Securities or Private Exchange Securities on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
     "" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Initial Securities, the Private Exchange Securities, if issued, and/or the Exchange Securities under the Indenture.
Trustee
          2. .
Registration Under the 1933 Act
          2.1 . The Company and the Guarantors shall, for the benefit of the Holders, at their cost, (A) prepare and, not later than 120 days following the Closing Date, file with the SEC an Exchange Offer Registration Statement on an
Exchange Offer
 
appropriate form under the 1933 Act with respect to a proposed Exchange Offer and the issuance and delivery to the Holders, in exchange for the Registrable Securities (other than Private Exchange Securities) of each series, of a like principal amount of Exchange Securities of the applicable series, (B) use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective under the 1933 Act within 180 days of the Closing Date and (C) use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer to be consummated not later than 210 days following the Closing Date. The Exchange Securities of each series will be issued under the Indenture. Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company and the Guarantors shall promptly commence the Exchange Offer, it being the objective of such Exchange Offer to enable each Holder eligible and electing to exchange Registrable Securities of each series for Exchange Securities of the applicable series (assuming that such Holder (a) is not an affiliate of the Company within the meaning of Rule 405 under the 1933 Act, (b) is not a broker-dealer tendering Registrable Securities acquired directly from the Company for its own account, (c) acquired the Exchange Securities in the ordinary course of such Holder's business and (d) has no arrangements or understandings with any Person to participate in the Exchange Offer for the purpose of distributing the Exchange Securities, and has made representations to the Company to that effect) to transfer such Exchange Securities from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the 1933 Act and under state securities or blue sky laws.
          In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company and the Guarantors shall:
               (a) mail as promptly as practicable after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has been declared effective under the 1933 Act to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
               (b) keep the Exchange Offer open for acceptance for a period of not less than 30 calendar days after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders (or longer if required by applicable law) (such period referred to herein as the "Exchange Period");
               (c) utilize the services of the Depositary for the Exchange Offer;
               (d) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Registrable Securities at any time prior to 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time), on the last business day of the Exchange Period, by sending to the institution specified in the notice, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of
 
Registrable Securities delivered for exchange, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing such Holder's election to have such Registrable Securities exchanged;
               (e) notify each Holder that any Registrable Security not tendered will remain outstanding and continue to accrue interest, but will not retain any rights under this Agreement (except in the case of the Initial Purchasers and Participating Broker-Dealers as provided herein); and
               (f) otherwise comply in all respects with all applicable laws relating to the Exchange Offer.
          If, prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer, the Initial Purchasers hold any Initial Securities acquired by them and having the status of an unsold allotment in the initial distribution, the Company and the Guarantors upon the request of any Initial Purchaser shall, simultaneously with the delivery of the Exchange Securities in the Exchange Offer, issue and deliver to such Initial Purchaser in exchange (the "Private Exchange") for the Initial Securities of each series held by such Initial Purchaser, a like principal amount of debt securities of the Company on a senior basis, that are identical (except that such securities shall bear appropriate transfer restrictions) to the Exchange Securities of the applicable series (the "Private Exchange Securities"). For the avoidance of doubt, such Exchange Securities shall be likewise guaranteed by the Guarantors.
          The Exchange Securities and the Private Exchange Securities shall be issued under (i) the Indenture or (ii) an indenture identical in all material respects to the Indenture and which, in either case, has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "TIA"), or is exempt from such qualification and shall provide that the Exchange Securities shall not be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in the Indenture but that the Private Exchange Securities shall be subject to such transfer restrictions. The Indenture or such indenture shall provide that the Initial Securities of each series, the Exchange Securities of the applicable series and the Private Exchange Securities of the applicable series shall vote and consent together on all matters as one class and that none of the Exchange Securities, the Private Exchange Securities or the Initial Securities will have the right to vote or consent as a separate class on any matter. The Private Exchange Securities shall be of the same series as and the Company shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to have the Private Exchange Securities bear the same CUSIP number as the Exchange Securities of such series. Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors shall have any liability under this Agreement solely as a result of such Private Exchange Securities not bearing the same CUSIP number as the applicable Exchange Securities.
 
          As soon as practicable after the close of the Exchange Offer and/or the Private Exchange, as the case may be, the Company and the Guarantors shall:
     (i) accept for exchange all Registrable Securities duly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and the letter of transmittal which shall be an exhibit thereto;
     (ii) accept for exchange all Initial Securities properly tendered pursuant to the Private Exchange;
     (iii) deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Securities so accepted for exchange; and
     (iv) cause the Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities, as the case may be, to each Holder of Registrable Securities of the same series so accepted for exchange in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Registrable Securities of such series of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
          Interest on each Exchange Security and Private Exchange Security will accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Registrable Securities of the same series surrendered in exchange therefor (or if the Exchange Security or Private Exchange Security is authenticated between a record date and an interest payment date with respect to the Registrable Securities of the same series surrendered in exchange therefor, from such interest payment date) or, if no interest has been paid on such Registrable Securities, from the date of original issuance of the Initial Securities surrendered in exchange therefor. The Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange shall not be subject to any conditions, other than (i) that the Exchange Offer or the Private Exchange, or the making of any exchange by a Holder, does not violate applicable law or any applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC, (ii) the due tendering of Registrable Securities in accordance with the Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange, (iii) that each Holder of Registrable Securities exchanged in the Exchange Offer shall have represented that all Exchange Securities to be received by it shall be acquired in the ordinary course of its business and that at the time of the consummation of the Exchange Offer it shall have no arrangement or understanding with any person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the 1933 Act) of the Exchange Securities and shall have made such other representations as may be reasonably necessary under applicable SEC rules, regulations or interpretations to render the use of Form S-4 or other appropriate form under the 1933 Act available, (iv) all governmental approvals which the Company reasonably deems necessary for the consummation of the Exchange Offer
 
and the Private Exchange shall have been obtained and (v) that no action or proceeding shall have been instituted or threatened in any court or by or before any governmental agency with respect to the Exchange Offer or the Private Exchange which, in the Company's judgment, would reasonably be expected to impair the ability of the Company or any of the Guarantors to proceed with the Exchange Offer or the Private Exchange. The Company shall inform the Initial Purchasers of the names and addresses of the Holders to whom the Exchange Offer is made, and the Initial Purchasers shall have the right to contact such Holders and otherwise facilitate the tender of Registrable Securities in the Exchange Offer.
          2.2 . (i) If, because of any changes in law, SEC rules or regulations or applicable interpretations thereof by the staff of the SEC, the Company is not permitted to effect the Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2.1 hereof, (ii) if for any other reason the Exchange Offer is not consummated within 210 days after the original issue of the Registrable Securities, (iii) upon the request of any of the Initial Purchasers with respect to Registrable Securities not eligible to be exchanged for Exchange Securities in the Exchange Offer or (iv) if a Holder is not permitted to participate in the Exchange Offer or does not receive fully tradable Exchange Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer, then in case of each of clauses (i) through (iv) the Company and the Guarantors shall, at their cost:
Shelf Registration
     (a) file with the SEC and use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be declared effective no later than 210 days after the original issue of the Registrable Securities, a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by the Majority Holders participating in the Shelf Registration and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement.
     (b) Use their commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period of two years from the date the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC, or for such shorter period that will terminate when all Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or cease to be outstanding or otherwise to be Registrable Securities (the "Effectiveness Period"); , that the Effectiveness Period in respect of the Shelf Registration Statement shall be extended to the extent required to permit dealers to comply with the applicable prospectus delivery requirements of Rule 174 under the 1933 Act and as otherwise provided herein.
provided, however
 
     (c) Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, use their commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that (i) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming part thereof and any supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (iii) any Prospectus forming part of any Shelf Registration Statement, and any supplement to such Prospectus (as amended or supplemented from time to time), does not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
          The Company and the Guarantors shall not permit any securities other than Registrable Securities to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement. The Company and the Guarantors further agree, if necessary, to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement, as required by Section 3(b) below, and to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC.
          2.3 . The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Section 2.1 or 2.2. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
Expenses
          2.4. . (a) The Company and the Guarantors will be deemed not have used their commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, to become, or to remain, effective during the requisite period if the Company or any of the Guarantors voluntarily takes any action that would, or omits to take any action which omission would, result in any such Registration Statement not being declared effective or in the Holders of Registrable Securities covered thereby not being able to exchange or offer and sell such Registrable Securities during that period as and to the extent contemplated hereby, unless such action is required by applicable law.
Effectiveness
          (b) An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof or a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC; , that if, after it has been declared effective, the offering of Registrable
provided, however
 
Securities pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or a Shelf Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, such Registration Statement will be deemed not to have become effective during the period of such interference, until the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement may legally resume.
          2.5 . In the event that either (a) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not filed with the SEC on or prior to the 120th calendar day following the date of original issue of the Initial Securities, (b) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has not been declared effective on or prior to the 180th calendar day following the date of original issue of the Initial Securities or (c) the Exchange Offer is not consummated or a Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective, in either case, on or prior to the 210th calendar day following the date of original issue of the Initial Securities (each such event referred to in clauses (a) through (c) above, a ""), the interest rate borne by the Initial Securities of the series affected thereby shall be increased (such additional interest being referred to as "") by 0.25% per annum upon the occurrence of each Registration Default, which rate will be further increased by 0.25% each 90-day period that such Additional Interest continues to accrue under any such circumstance, provided that the maximum aggregate increase in the interest rate of Initial Securities of a series will in no event exceed 1% per annum. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults, the accrual of Additional Interest will cease and the interest rate will revert to the original rate.
Interest
Registration Default
Additional Interest
          If the Shelf Registration Statement is unusable by the Holders for any reason, and the aggregate number of days in any consecutive twelve-month period for which the Shelf Registration Statement shall not be usable exceeds 30 days in the aggregate, then the interest rate borne by the Initial Securities of the series affected thereby shall be increased by 0.25% per annum of the principal amount of the Initial Securities for the first 90-day period (or portion thereof) beginning on the 31 such date that such Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be usable, which rate shall be increased by an additional 0.25% per annum of the principal amount of the Initial Securities at the beginning of each subsequent 90-day period, provided that the maximum aggregate increase in the interest rate of Initial Securities of a series will in no event exceed 1% per annum. Any amounts payable under this paragraph shall also be deemed "Additional Interest" for purposes of this Agreement. Upon the Shelf Registration Statement once again becoming usable, the interest rate borne by the Initial Securities will be reduced to the original interest rate if the Company and the Guarantors are otherwise in compliance with this Agreement at such time. Additional Interest shall be computed based on the actual number of days elapsed in each 90-day period in which the Shelf Registration Statement is unusable.
st
 
          The Company shall notify the Trustee within five business days after each and every date on which an event occurs in respect of which Additional Interest is required to be paid (an "Event Date"). Additional Interest shall be paid by depositing with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of Registrable Securities of the affected series, on or before the applicable semiannual interest payment date, immediately available funds in sums sufficient to pay the Additional Interest then due. The Additional Interest due shall be payable on each interest payment date to the record Holder of Initial Securities entitled to receive the interest payment to be paid on such date as set forth in the Indenture. Each obligation to pay Additional Interest shall be deemed to accrue from and including the day following the applicable Event Date.
          3. .
Registration Procedures
          In connection with the obligations of the Company and the Guarantors with respect to Registration Statements pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.2 hereof, the Company and the Guarantors shall:
          (a) prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement, within the relevant time period specified in Section 2, on the appropriate form under the 1933 Act, which form (i) shall be selected by the Company, (ii) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the selling Holders thereof, (iii) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include or incorporate by reference all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein, and (iv) shall comply in all respects with the requirements of Regulation S-T under the 1933 Act, and use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
          (b) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary under applicable law to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period; and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provision then in force) under the 1933 Act and comply with the provisions of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to them with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by each Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the selling Holders thereof (including sales by any Participating Broker-Dealer);
          (c) in the case of a Shelf Registration, (i) notify each Holder of Registrable Securities, at least five business days prior to filing, that a Shelf Registration
 
Statement with respect to the Registrable Securities is being filed and advising such Holders that the distribution of Registrable Securities will be made in accordance with the method selected by the Majority Holders participating in the Shelf Registration; (ii) furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities and to each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto and such other documents as such Holder or underwriter may reasonably request, including financial statements and schedules and, if the Holder so requests, all exhibits in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities; and (iii) hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Securities in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto;
          (d) in the case of a Shelf Registration, use their commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement and each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities shall reasonably request by the time the applicable Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each such Holder and underwriter to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; , that the Company and the Guarantors shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(d), or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
provided, however
          (e) notify promptly each Holder of Registrable Securities under a Shelf Registration or any Participating Broker-Dealer who has notified the Company that it is utilizing the Exchange Offer Registration Statement as provided in paragraph (f) below and, if requested by such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, confirm such advice in writing promptly (i) when a Registration Statement has become effective and when any post-effective amendments and supplements thereto become effective, (ii) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for post-effective amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) in the case of a Shelf Registration, if, between the effective date of a Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contained in any underwriting
 
agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to the offering cease to be true and correct in all material respects, (v) of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective which makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading, (vi) of the receipt by the Company or any of the Guarantors of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities or the Exchange Securities, as the case may be, for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose and (vii) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to such Registration Statement would be appropriate;
          (f) (A) in the case of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (i) include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a section entitled "Plan of Distribution" which section shall be reasonably acceptable to Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (collectively, the "") on behalf of the Participating Broker-Dealers, and which shall contain a summary statement of the positions taken or policies made public by the staff of the SEC with respect to the potential "underwriter" status of any broker-dealer that holds Registrable Securities acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and that will be the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of Exchange Securities to be received by such broker-dealer in the Exchange Offer, including a statement that any such broker-dealer who receives Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer may be deemed a statutory underwriter and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities, (ii) furnish to each Participating Broker-Dealer who has delivered to the Company the notice referred to in Section 3(e), without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such Participating Broker-Dealer may reasonably request, (iii) hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement thereto, by any Person subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the SEC, including all Participating Broker-Dealers, in connection with the sale or transfer of the Exchange Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, and (iv) include in the transmittal letter or similar documentation to be executed by an exchange offeree in order to participate in the Exchange Offer (x) the following provision:
Representatives
"If the exchange offeree is a broker-dealer holding Registrable Securities acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other
 
trading activities, it will deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of Exchange Securities received in respect of such Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer"; and
(y) a statement to the effect that by a broker-dealer making the acknowledgment described in clause (x) and by delivering a Prospectus in connection with the exchange of Registrable Securities, the broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an underwriter within the meaning of the 1933 Act; and
                    (B) [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED]
          (g) (i) in the case of an Exchange Offer, furnish counsel for the Initial Purchasers and (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish counsel for the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any comment letters received from the SEC or any other request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments or supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information;
          (h) use their commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement at the earliest possible moment;
          (i) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, and each underwriter, if any, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules (without documents incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits thereto, unless requested);
          (j) in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and enable such Registrable Securities to be in such denominations (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) and registered in such names as the selling Holders or the underwriters, if any, may reasonably request at least three business days prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities;
          (k) in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event or the discovery of any facts, each as contemplated by Sections 3(e)(v) and 3(e)(vi) hereof, as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, use their commercially reasonable efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment "If the exchange offeree is a broker-dealer holding Registrable Securities acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other to the Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered
 
to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities or Participating Broker-Dealers, such Prospectus will not contain at the time of such delivery any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or will remain so qualified. At such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material fact or to include any omitted material fact, the Company agrees promptly to notify each Holder of such determination and to furnish each Holder such number of copies of the Prospectus as amended or supplemented, as such Holder may reasonably request;
          (l) in the case of a Shelf Registration, a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or any document which is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus after initial filing of a Registration Statement or any free writing prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders; and make representatives of the Company and the Guarantors as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders of Registrable Securities, or the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders, available for discussion of such document;
          (m) obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities, Private Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement, and provide the Trustee with printed certificates for the Exchange Securities, Private Exchange Securities or the Registrable Securities, as the case may be, in a form eligible for deposit with the Depositary;
          (n) (i) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the TIA in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, (ii) cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA and (iii) execute, and use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
          (o) in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into agreements (including underwriting agreements) and take all other customary and appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities and in such
 
connection whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an underwritten registration:
     (i) make such representations and warranties to the Holders of such Registrable Securities and the underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in similar underwritten offerings as may be reasonably requested by them;
     (ii) furnish to each Initial Purchaser, each Holder and each underwriter, if any, in such substance and scope as they may request and as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings, upon the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, a certificate, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement or the date of the closing under any underwriting or similar agreement, as applicable, signed by (x) the President or a Vice President of the Company and (y) the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company, confirming, as of the date thereof, the matters set forth in paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 5(c) and Section 5(d) of the Purchase Agreement and such other matters as such parties may reasonably request;
     (iii) if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to set forth indemnification provisions and procedures substantially equivalent to the indemnification provisions and procedures set forth in Section 4 hereof with respect to the underwriters and all other parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section or, at the request of any underwriters, in the form customarily provided to such underwriters in similar types of transactions; and
     (iv) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested and as are customarily delivered in similar offerings to the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold and the managing underwriters, if any.
The above shall be done at (i) the effectiveness of such Registration Statement (and each post-effective amendment thereto) and (ii) each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder;
          (p) in the case of a Shelf Registration or if a Prospectus is required to be delivered by any Participating Broker-Dealer in the case of an Exchange Offer, make available for inspection during regular business hours by representatives of the Holders of the Registrable Securities, any underwriters participating in any disposition pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, any Participating Broker-Dealer and any counsel or accountant retained by any of the foregoing (collectively, the "Inspectors"), all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company or any Guarantor ("Records") reasonably requested by any such persons, and cause the
 
respective officers, directors, employees, and any other agents of the Company or any Guarantor to supply all information reasonably requested by any such representative, underwriter, special counsel or accountant in connection with a Registration Statement, and make such representatives of the Company or any Guarantor available for discussion of such documents as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers. Records which the Company determines, in good faith, to be confidential and any Records which it notifies the Inspectors are confidential shall be maintained in confidence and shall not be disclosed by the Inspectors to any other Person until such time as (1) disclosure of such Records is required to be set forth in the Shelf Registration Statement or a Prospectus in order that such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus, as the case may be, does not contain an untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances then existing (in which case the subject information may only be disclosed to another Person following such time as the Shelf Registration Statement in which such information is included is publicly filed by the Company with the SEC), (2) disclosure is required to be made in connection with a court, administrative or regulatory proceeding or required by law (but only after prior written notice of such requirement shall have given to the Company), or (3) the information in such Records has been made generally available to the public. Each such Inspector will be required to agree to keep information obtained by it as a result of its inspections pursuant to this Agreement confidential (except as otherwise permitted to be disclosed hereunder) and not to use such information as the basis for any market transactions in the securities of the Company unless and until such is made generally available to the public. Each Inspector will be required to further agree that it will, upon learning that disclosure of such Records is sought under clause (1) above, give notice to the Company and allow the Company and its subsidiaries at their expense to undertake appropriate action to prevent disclosure of the Records deemed confidential;
          (q) (i) in the case of an Exchange Offer Registration Statement, a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus or any free writing prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers and to counsel to the Holders of Registrable Securities and make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as the Initial Purchasers or counsel to the Holders of Registrable Securities may reasonably request and, except as otherwise required by applicable law, not file any such document in a form to which the Initial Purchasers on behalf of the Holders of Registrable Securities and counsel to the Holders of Registrable Securities shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy of or to which the Initial Purchasers on behalf of the Holders of Registrable Securities or counsel to the Holders of Registrable Securities shall reasonably object, and make the representatives
 
of the Company or any Guarantor available for discussion of such documents as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers; and
               (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, a reasonable time prior to filing any Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus or any free writing prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Holders of Registrable Securities, to the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for the Holders and to the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any, make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as the Initial Purchasers, the counsel to the Holders or the underwriter or underwriters reasonably request and not file any such document in a form to which the Majority Holders, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of the Holders of Registrable Securities, counsel for the Holders of Registrable Securities or any underwriter shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy of or to which the Majority Holders, the Initial Purchasers of behalf of the Holders of Registrable Securities, counsel to the Holders of Registrable Securities or any underwriter shall reasonably object, and make the representatives of the Company or any Guarantor available for discussion of such document as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders of Registrable Securities, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders, counsel for the Holders of Registrable Securities or any underwriter.
          (r) in the case of a Shelf Registration, use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause all Registrable Securities to be listed on any securities exchange on which similar debt securities issued by the Company are then listed if reasonably requested by the Majority Holders, or if requested by the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any;
          (s) in the case of a Shelf Registration, use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Registrable Securities to be rated by the appropriate rating agencies, if so requested by the Majority Holders, or if requested by the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any;
          (t) otherwise comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, an earnings statement covering at least 12 months which shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder;
          (u) cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with the NASD and, in the case of a Shelf Registration, in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter and its counsel (including any "qualified independent
 
underwriter" that is required to be retained in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD); and
          (v) upon consummation of an Exchange Offer or a Private Exchange, obtain a customary opinion of counsel to the Company and the Guarantors as may be required by the Trustee.
          In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may (as a condition to such Holder's participation in the Shelf Registration) require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing. The Company may exclude from such Shelf Registration Statement the Registrable Securities of any Holder who fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time (not to exceed 15 business days) after receiving such request and shall be under no obligation to compensate any such Holder for any lost income, interest or other opportunity forgone, or any liability incurred, as a result of the Company's decision to exclude such Holder in accordance with this paragraph.
          In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Section 3(e)(v) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(k) hereof, and, if so directed by the Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company (at its expense) all copies in such Holder's possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice.
          If any of the Registrable Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the underwriter or underwriters and manager or managers that will manage such offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be acceptable to the Company. No Holder of Registrable Securities may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
 
          Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company and the Guarantors shall be under no obligation to participate in any underwritten offering with respect to the Registrable Securities in connection with the Shelf Registration and no such underwritten offering shall be effected pursuant to this Agreement without the prior consent of the Company.
          4. .
Indemnification; Contribution
          (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Initial Purchasers, each Holder, each Participating Broker-Dealer, each Person who participates as an underwriter (any such Person being an "Underwriter") and each Person, if any, who controls any Holder or Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
          (i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment or supplement thereto) pursuant to which Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities were registered under the 1933 Act, including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433 under the 1933 Act ("Issuer Free Writing Prospectus") or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
          (ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 4(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company; and
          (iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by any indemnified party), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue
 
statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under subparagraph (i) or (ii) above;
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Initial Purchasers, Holder or Underwriter expressly for use in a Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
provided
however
          (b) Each Holder severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Guarantors, the Initial Purchasers, each Underwriter and the other selling Holders, and each of their respective directors and officers, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, the Guarantors, the Initial Purchasers, any Underwriter or any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 4(a) hereof, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any Prospectus included therein (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information with respect to such Holder furnished to the Company by such Holder expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or such Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus; , that no such Holder shall be liable for any claims hereunder in excess of the amount of net proceeds received by such Holder from the sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement.
provided, however
          (c) Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action or proceeding commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure so to notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of such action; provided, however, that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying party or parties be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written
 
consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 4 (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
          (d) If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 4(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.
          (e) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 4 is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Holders and the Initial Purchasers on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
     The relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Holders and the Initial Purchasers on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, the Guarantors, the Holders or the Initial Purchasers and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
     The Company, the Guarantors, the Holders and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 4 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the
 
equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 4. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 4 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 4, no Initial Purchaser shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Initial Securities sold by it were offered exceeds the amount of any damages which such Initial Purchaser has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
     No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
     For purposes of this Section 4, each Person, if any, who controls an Initial Purchaser or Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchaser or Holder, and each director of the Company, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. The Initial Purchasers' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule A to the Purchase Agreement and not joint.
          5. .
Miscellaneous
          5.1 . Each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby agrees with each Holder, for so long as any Registrable Securities remain outstanding, to make available to any Holder or beneficial owner of Registrable Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of such Registrable Securities from such Holder or beneficial owner, the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the 1933 Act in order to permit resales of such Registrable Securities pursuant to Rule 144A under the 1933 Act.
Rule 144A
          5.2 . The Company and the Guarantors have not entered into and the Company and the Guarantors will not after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the by pro rata allocation (even if the Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the
No Inconsistent Agreements
 
provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not and will not for the term of this Agreement in any way conflict with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's and the Guarantors' other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
          5.3 . The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company and the Guarantors have obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or departure.
Amendments and Waivers
          5.4 . All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, registered first-class mail, telex, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.4, which address initially is the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement with respect to the Initial Purchasers; and (b) if to the Company or the Guarantors, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Purchase Agreement, and thereafter at such other address of which notice is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.4.
Notices
          All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; two business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next business day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
          Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the person giving the same to the Trustee under the Indenture, at the address specified in such Indenture.
          5.5 . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such person shall be conclusively
Successor and Assigns
provided
 
deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Purchase Agreement, and such person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
          5.6 . The Initial Purchasers (even if the Initial Purchasers are not Holders of Registrable Securities) shall be third party beneficiaries to the agreements made hereunder between the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent they deem such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect their rights or the rights of Holders hereunder. Each Holder of Registrable Securities shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries
          5.7. . Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, the Company and the Guarantors acknowledge that any failure by the Company or any Guarantor to comply with its obligations under Sections 2.1 through 2.4 hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it would not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's and the Guarantors' obligations under Sections 2.1 through 2.4 hereof.
Specific Enforcement
          5.8. . Until the expiration of two years after the original issuance of the Initial Securities, the Company and the Guarantors will not, and will cause their "affiliates" (as such term is defined in Rule 144(a)(1) under the 1933 Act) not to, resell any Initial Securities which are "restricted securities" (as such term is defined under Rule 144(a)(3) under the 1933 Act) that have been reacquired by any of them and shall immediately upon any purchase of any such Initial Securities submit such Initial Securities to the Trustee for cancellation.
Restriction on Resales
          5.9 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
          5.10 . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
 
          5.11 .
GOVERNING LAW
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS THEREOF
          5.12 . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
Confirmed and accepted as   of the date first above   written:

 
Exhibit 4.6
First Supplemental Indenture (this ""), dated as of July 17, 2006, among WINDSTREAM HOLDINGS OF THE MIDWEST, INC., a Nebraska corporation, WINDSTREAM NETWORK SERVICES OF THE MIDWEST, INC., a Nebraska corporation, WINDSTREAM YELLOW PAGES, INC., an Ohio corporation, WINDSTREAM LISTING MANAGEMENT, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation, WINDSTREAM SUPPLY, INC., an Ohio corporation, TELEVIEW, INC., a Georgia corporation, WINDSTREAM ALABAMA, INC., an Alabama corporation, WINDSTREAM ARKANSAS, INC., an Arkansas corporation, WINDSTREAM OKLAHOMA, INC., an Arkansas corporation, OKLAHOMA WINDSTREAM, INC., an Oklahoma corporation, WINDSTREAM SOUTH CAROLINA, INC., a South Carolina corporation, WINDSTREAM SUGAR LAND, INC., a Texas corporation, TEXAS WINDSTREAM, INC. a Texas corporation (the ""), Valor Telecommunications Enterprises, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and Valor Telecommunications Enterprises Finance Corp., a Delaware corporation, (together, the "") and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Guaranteeing Subsidiaries
Issuers
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Issuers and the other Guarantors party thereto have heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture (the ""), dated as of February 14, 2005 providing for the issuance of the Issuers' 7/% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "");
Indenture
3
4
Notes
WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries shall, subject to Article Ten of the Indenture, unconditionally guarantee the Notes on the terms and conditions set forth therein (the ""); and
Note Guarantee
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Issuers, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee agree as follows for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes:
1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Capitalized Terms
2. .
Agreement to Guarantee
(a) Subject to Article Ten of the Indenture, each of the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of the Indenture, the Notes or the obligations of the Issuers hereunder or thereunder, that:
 
     (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes, if lawful (subject in all cases to any applicable grace period provided herein), and all other obligations of the Issuers to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
     (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection.
(b) Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees that, to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law, its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Issuers, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor.
(c) Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary, subject to Section 6.06 of the Indenture, hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Issuers, any right to require a proceeding first against the Issuers, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that this Note Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and the Indenture.
(d) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Issuers, the Guarantors, or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to any of the Issuers or the Guarantors, any amount paid by any of them to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
(e) Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby.
(f) Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Six of the Indenture for the purposes of the Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article Six of the Indenture, such
 
obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of the Note Guarantee.
(g) Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Note Guarantee.
(h) Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary confirms, pursuant to Section 10.02 of the Indenture, that it is the intention of such Guaranteeing Subsidiary that the Note Guarantee not constitute (i) a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to the Note Guarantee or (ii) an unlawful distribution under any applicable state law prohibiting shareholder distributions by an insolvent subsidiary to the extent applicable to the Note Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, each Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such Guaranteeing Subsidiary will be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guaranteeing Subsidiary that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under Article Ten of the Indenture, result in the obligations of such Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Note Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance or such an unlawful shareholder distribution.
3. . Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that the Note Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of the Note Guarantee.
Execution and Delivery
4. . No Guaranteeing Subsidiary may sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into, any Person other than as set forth in Section 10.04 of the Indenture.
Guaranteeing Subsidiary May Consolidate, Etc., on Certain Terms
5. . Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary's Note Guarantee shall be released as set forth in Section 10.05 of the Indenture.
Release
6. . Pursuant to Section 12.07 of the Indenture, no director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of any Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall have any liability for any obligations of such Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Notes, the Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture, the Note Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. This waiver and release are part of the consideration for the Note Guarantee.
No Recourse Against Others
7. . THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE.
NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN
8. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
9. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
10. . The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries and the Issuers.
Trustee
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
     This Transition Services Agreement (this "Agreement"), dated as of July 17, 2006 (the "Signing Date"), is entered between ALLTEL Corporation., a Delaware corporation, on behalf of itself and its affiliates ("AT Co."), and Alltel Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of AT Co., on behalf of itself and its affiliates ("Spinco").
     WHEREAS, AT Co. and Spinco are parties to that certain Distribution Agreement dated as of December 8, 2005, as amended (the "Distribution Agreement"; capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Distribution Agreement), pursuant to which, among other things, AT Co. will distribute to its stockholders all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Spinco (the "Distribution"); and
     WHEREAS, in connection with the Distribution, the parties desire that AT Co. and its Affiliates provide certain services to Spinco and its Affiliates on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:
     1.1 . This Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions for the provision by AT Co. to Spinco of various transition services described herein and in the service attachment (the "Service Attachment") attached hereto as and any statement of work (an "SOW") to be added hereto and numbered appropriately (collectively, the "Transition Services"), pursuant to the terms hereof.
Transition Services
Exhibit A
     1.2 . Commencing on the date hereof and continuing through the Term (as defined in Article 2 of this Agreement), AT Co. will provide the Transition Services to Spinco, unless (a) otherwise indicated on the Service Attachment, (b) automatically modified by termination of a Transition Service by Spinco in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof, (c) otherwise mutually agreed to by the parties in writing, or (d) this Agreement is terminated in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof.
Provision of Transition Services
     1.3 . From time to time, Spinco may request that AT Co. provide additional or modified services that relate to the transition of ownership and operation of the Spinco Business but are not described in the Service Attachment. AT Co. will use, and will cause each of its Affiliates to use, its reasonable best efforts to accommodate any reasonable requests by Spinco to provide additional or modified services relating to the transition of ownership and operations of the Spinco Business. In order to initiate a request for such additional or modified services, Spinco shall submit a written request to AT Co. specifying the nature of the requested additional or modified services and
Purchase of Additional or Modified Transition Services
 
requesting an estimate of the Transition Services Costs (as defined in Section 3.1) applicable to such additional or modified services. AT Co. shall respond to such request within 10 Business Days following AT Co.'s receipt of such request; provided that, subject to the second sentence of Section 1.3, such 10 Business Day period shall be subject to a reasonable extension if, due to the volume, frequency or type of requests submitted by Spinco, AT Co.'s preparation of responses to such requests is materially interfering with, or is likely to materially interfere with, AT Co.'s normal business activities. If AT Co. can, subject to the second sentence of this Section 1.3, accommodate Spinco's request to provide such additional or modified services, and if Spinco accepts the terms and conditions set forth in AT Co.'s response to such request, then such additional or modified services shall be provided hereunder subject to the terms and conditions of AT Co.'s response and such other terms and conditions as may be agreed to by the parties in a written amendment to this Agreement. If AT Co. agrees to any modification to the physical facilities that is requested by Spinco in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Section, such modification shall be done solely at Spinco's cost and expense and shall be coordinated by the parties to minimize interference with AT Co.'s normal business activities. No representative of Spinco shall have authority to make decisions with respect to AT Co. and its responsibilities under this Agreement; and no representative of AT Co. shall have authority to make decisions with respect to Spinco and its responsibilities under this Agreement.
     1.4 . Each party shall designate one or more persons who have practical knowledge and experience in each area of AT Co.'s operations that relate to the Transition Services and are authorized to make decisions with respect to the Transition Services (each a "Transition Team"). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject to the foregoing proviso each Transition Team will include persons from such party and its Affiliates whose experience includes the following areas: (a) information technology systems, (b) billing, (c) human resources, (d) customer service, (e) accounting and finance, (f) engineering and network, (g) sales and marketing, (h) operations, (i) real estate, (j) branding, and (k) capital asset management. Each party shall designate a member of its Transition Team as the leader of its Transition Team (each a "Team Leader"). Each Team Leader shall coordinate the assignment of persons to its Transition Team and shall assess and monitor the performance of the Transition Services. Prior to the initial joint meeting described in Section 1.5 of this Agreement, each party shall submit to the other party a written list identifying its initial Team Leader and the initial members of its Transition Team including each person's title, areas of expertise and relevant telephone, fax and email information. If a Transition Team member or Team Leader shall be unavailable to work on the Transition Services for more than five (5) Business Days, then he or she shall appoint a temporary or permanent replacement.
Appointment of Transition Teams
     1.5 . Within 30 Business Days after the Signing Date, the appropriate representatives of the Transition Teams shall conduct an initial joint meeting for the purpose of defining roles, responsibilities, scope and timelines related to the Transition Services. Thereafter, the Transition Teams shall convene meetings on a mutually agreed upon periodic basis as required. It is the expectation of the parties that the Transition Team members shall communicate directly with one another and work directly with one another to ensure that all Transition Services are completed on a timely and complete basis; provided that, except for AT Co.'s Team Leader, the members of AT Co.'s Transition Team shall not have the legal authority to make or to modify any obligation or to waive any right on behalf of AT Co. The Team
Transition Team Meetings
 
Leaders shall meet, at least weekly, or on such other mutually agreed upon periodic basis as required, to discuss the status of the Transition Services, as well as to answer questions, gather information and resolve disputes that may occur from time-to-time. All meetings pursuant to this Section 1.5 may be face-to-face, video or telephonic meetings as may be agreed upon by the parties. Each party shall bear its own costs of attending or participating in Transition Team meetings.
     1.6 . The Transition Teams will be accountable for overseeing the completion of the Transition Services in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof. Unless otherwise provided in the Service Attachment, the parties will use their reasonable best efforts to respond to requests for information within 5 Business Days after receipt of each such request.
Oversee Completion of Transition Services
     1.7 . From time to time, Spinco may request that AT Co. make available to Spinco a resource of AT Co. that has expertise in the subject matter (which must be directly related to the systems and procedures utilized by AT Co. and its Affiliates in connection with the Spinco Business) specified by Spinco in such request. Within 5 Business Days after receipt by AT Co. of a reasonable request by Spinco that a specified subject matter expert be made available, AT Co. shall make, and shall cause its Affiliates to make, such subject matter experts (including, without limitation, technical and operational personnel) available to Spinco's Transition Team or other subject matter experts during AT Co.'s normal business hours. For purposes of determining the reasonableness of any such request by Spinco, AT Co. shall consider the specified subject matter expert's other duties and then-current schedule as well as the availability of other individuals with the same skills as the specified subject matter expert.
Availability of Subject Matter Experts
     1.8 . AT Co. shall keep the equipment and software used to provide the Transition Services in working order with sufficient capacity to perform the Transition Services concurrent with the equipment's and software's other use for AT Co., if any; provided, however, if AT Co. is required to increase the capacity of its equipment or software (for example, because previously shared hardware capacity must be duplicated) to perform the Transition Services, then AT Co. shall obtain Spinco's prior written approval of any additional cost or expense that AT Co. expects to incur in connection with such increase in capacity, and Spinco shall pay any such additional cost or expense incurred by AT Co. to provide such increased capacity to the extent so approved by Spinco.
Equipment and Software
     1.9 . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, AT Co. and Spinco shall each use reasonable best efforts to provide information and documentation sufficient for each party to perform the Transition Services as they were performed before the date of this Agreement, and make available, as reasonably requested by the other party, sufficient resources and timely decisions, approvals and acceptances in order that each party may accomplish its obligations under this Agreement in a timely and efficient manner.
General Cooperation
     1.10 . Unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement, if Spinco makes any change in the processes, procedures, practices, networks, equipment, configurations, or
Modifications
 
systems pertaining to the Spinco Business, and such change has an adverse impact on AT Co.'s ability to provide any of the Transition Services, then AT Co. shall be excused from performance of any such affected Transition Services until Spinco mitigates the adverse impact of such change, and Spinco shall be responsible for all direct expenses incurred by AT Co. in connection with the cessation and, if applicable, the resumption of the affected Transition Services.
     Unless terminated earlier in accordance with Article 8 of this Agreement, the term of this Agreement shall expire on the one-year anniversary of the Signing Date (the "Term"), except Spinco shall have the right to extend the Term for an additional 30 days by providing written notice to AT Co. at least 60 days prior to the expiration of the Term indicating Spinco's election to extend the Term. The parties may agree in any SOW to a longer period of time for performance of Services, and in that event the Term shall be extended for such time but only with respect to such SOW. Spinco may extend the period of time for which a particular Service will be required by an additional 30 days if Spinco delivers written notice of such election to AT Co. no later than 30 days prior to the scheduled expiration date of such Service, provided that no such election shall extend the period of performance of such Service beyond the expiration of the Term and Spinco may exercise this extension right only once as to any particular Service.
     3.1 . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the total compensation payable by Spinco to AT Co. for each and every Transition Service provided pursuant to the Service Attachment shall be set forth in the Services Attachment (the "Transition Services Costs").
Compensation for Transition Services
     3.2 . Within 30 days after the end of each calendar month during the Term, or extension thereof, AT Co. shall bill Spinco in arrears for the Transition Services Costs that apply to the Transition Services performed by AT Co. Each of AT Co.'s invoices shall describe in reasonable detail the Transition Services upon which the applicable Transition Services Costs are based. Within 30 days after Spinco's receipt of each of AT Co.'s invoices, Spinco shall pay AT Co. the amount of such invoice. If such payment is not received by AT Co. within such 30-day period, Spinco shall also pay AT Co. interest from and after the last date of the calendar month in respect of such invoice, but excluding the date of payment by Spinco, at a rate per annum equal to the Prime Rate on the last day of the calendar month in respect of such invoice. If Spinco disputes in good faith any portion of the amount due on any invoice, Spinco shall notify AT Co. in writing of the nature and basis of the dispute within 10 Business Days after Spinco's receipt of such invoice. Otherwise the invoiced amount shall be deemed to be accurate and correct and shall not be subject to dispute or contest by Spinco or any Affiliate thereof. The parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to resolve the dispute prior to the payment due date. AT Co. shall reimburse Spinco within 30 days following, as applicable (a)
Payment Terms
 
agreement by the parties of any excess payment made by Spinco in respect of Transition Services, or (b) resolution of any disputed amounts paid in excess of the amount of Transition Services Costs, in either case, with interest from and after the date payment was made by Spinco through, but excluding, the date of reimbursement by AT Co., at the rate per annum equal to the Prime Rate on the date payment was made by Spinco.
     3.3 . All charges and fees to be paid by Spinco under this Agreement are exclusive of any applicable withholding, sales, use, value added, excise, services or other United States or foreign tax which may be assessed on the provision of the Transition Services. In the event that a withholding, sales, use, value added, excise, value added services or other United States or foreign tax is assessed on the provision of any of the Transition Services provided to Spinco under this Agreement, Spinco will pay directly, reimburse or indemnify AT Co. for such taxes, as well as any applicable interest and penalties. The parties will cooperate with each other in determining the extent to which any tax is due and owing under the circumstances, and shall provide and make available to each other any resale certificates, information regarding out-of-state or country use of materials, services or sale, and other exemption certificates or information reasonably requested by either party. This section shall have no application to any tax based upon the income of AT Co.
Taxes
     4.1 . If there is any conflict or inconsistency between the terms and conditions set forth in the main body of this Agreement and any of the Exhibits to this Agreement, the provisions of the Exhibits shall control with respect to the rights and obligations of the parties regarding the Transition Services. If there is any conflict or inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Distribution Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall control solely with respect to the rights and obligations of the parties regarding the Transition Services.
Controlling Provisions
     5.1 . If a dispute arises between the parties with respect to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or any subject matter governed by this Agreement (excluding disputes regarding a party's compliance with the applicable confidentiality provisions or in the case of suit to compel compliance with this dispute resolution process or with the provisions of this Article) (a "Dispute") the parties agree to use and follow this dispute resolution procedure before initiating any judicial action. At such time as the Dispute is resolved under this Article, interest (at the Prime Rate) shall be paid to the party receiving any disputed monies to compensate for the lapsed time between the date such disputed amount originally was paid or should have been paid through the date monies are paid in settlement of the Dispute.
Dispute Resolution Procedures
     5.2 . The Transition Teams shall escalate any Dispute to the Team Leaders for resolution. Upon receipt of any such escalated matter, the Team Leaders shall
Claims Procedures
 
discuss and attempt to resolve the matter within 15 Business Days immediately following the escalation. If by the end of the fifteenth Business Day, the matter has not been resolved to the satisfaction of both Team Leaders, then the party that initiated the claim shall provide written notification to the other party in accordance with Section 10.3 of this Agreement, in the form of a claim identifying the issue or amount disputed and including a detailed reason for the claim. The party against whom the claim is made shall respond in writing to the claim within 15 Business Days from the date of receipt of the claim document. The party filing the claim shall have an additional 15 Business Days after the receipt of the response to either accept any resolution offered by the other party or request implementation of the procedures set forth in Section 5.3 (the "Escalation Procedures"). Failure to meet the time limitations set forth in this Section may result in the implementation of the Escalation Procedures.
     5.3 . Upon receipt of the written notice of a party involved in the Dispute and in compliance with Section 5.2, each party shall appoint a knowledgeable, responsible representative to negotiate in good faith to resolve any unresolved disputes or claims arising under this Agreement. The parties intend that these negotiations be conducted by experienced business representatives empowered to decide the issues. The business representatives shall meet and attempt to resolve the Dispute within 15 Business Days of receiving the written request. If they can resolve the Dispute within that time period, it will be memorialized in a written settlement and release agreement, executed within five Business Days thereafter. If they can not resolve the Dispute within that time period, then the parties may resort to judicial action or other remedies. The parties may vary the duration and form of these Escalation Procedures by mutual written agreement.
Escalation Procedure
     6.1 .
Indemnification by AT Co
          (a) AT Co. shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless each Spinco Indemnitee (as defined in the Distribution Agreement), against and in respect of any and all Indemnifiable Losses incurred or suffered by any Spinco Indemnitee that result from, relate to or arise out of any default by AT Co. in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or any third party claim against any Spinco Indemnitee based upon the negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct of any of the AT Co. Indemnitees that arise out of or result from any default by AT Co. in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, except to the extent that any such Indemnifiable Losses arise out of or result from the negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct of any Spinco Indemnitee.
          (b) In the case of Indemnifiable Losses incurred by Spinco Indemnitees that arise out of or result from any default by AT Co. in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement based upon the negligence of any of the AT Co. Indemnitees, indemnification shall be limited to actual damages which in no event shall exceed the total amount of compensation payable to AT Co. hereunder. For the avoidance of doubt, in the case of Indemnifiable Losses incurred by the Spinco Indemnitees that arise out of or result from any default by AT Co. in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement based upon the gross negligence or willful
 
misconduct of any of the AT Co. Indemnitees, indemnification shall be limited to actual damages without regard to the total amount of compensation payable to AT Co. hereunder.
     6.2 .
Indemnification by Spinco
          (a) Spinco shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless each AT Co. Indemnitee (as defined in the Distribution Agreement), against and in respect of any and all Indemnifiable Losses incurred or suffered by any AT Co. Indemnitee that result from, relate to or arise out of any default by Spinco in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or any third party claim against any AT Co. Indemnitee based upon the negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct of any of the Spinco Indemnitees that arise out of or result from any default by Spinco in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, except to the extent that any such Indemnifiable Losses arise out of or result from the negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct of any AT Co. Indemnitee.
          (b) In the case of Indemnifiable Losses incurred by AT Co. Indemnitees that arise out of or result from any default by Spinco in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement based upon the negligence of any of the Spinco Indemnitees, indemnification shall be limited to actual damages which in no event shall exceed the total amount of compensation payable to AT Co. hereunder. For the avoidance of doubt, in the case of Indemnifiable Losses incurred by the AT Co. Indemnitees that arise out of or result from any default by Spinco in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement based upon the gross negligence or willful misconduct of any of the Spinco Indemnitees, indemnification shall be limited to actual damages without regard to the total amount of compensation payable to AT Co. hereunder.
     6.3 .
Limitations
          (a) In no event shall either party hereto be liable for indirect, special, consequential or punitive damages arising out of this Agreement, regardless of the form of action, whether in contract, warranty, strict liability or tort, including negligence of any kind, whether active or passive, and regardless of whether the other party knew of or was advised at the time of breach of the possibility of such damages.
          (b) Except as otherwise provided in this Article 6, AT Co.'s sole responsibility to Spinco for errors or omissions in providing the Transition Services shall be to re-perform such Transition Services properly in a diligent manner, at no additional cost or expense; provided, however, that each party shall use reasonable best efforts to detect any such errors or omissions and promptly advise the other party or parties of any such error or omission of which it becomes aware.
     6.4 A party that is seeking indemnification pursuant to Section 6.1 or 6.2 shall notify the other party thereof and shall specify in reasonable detail the event(s) giving rise to such claim for indemnification within 15 Business Days after the indemnified party has actual knowledge of such event(s), except that any failure to give such notice will not waive any rights of the indemnified party unless the rights of the indemnifying party are actually and materially prejudiced thereby. The indemnifying party shall have the right to undertake the defense of any
 
claim upon delivery of notice to the indemnified party with respect to such claim. Such defense shall be made with counsel reasonably acceptable to the indemnified party. If the indemnifying party fails to undertake the defense of the indemnified party within such time period, the indemnified party may retain its own counsel for such defense (which shall be reasonably acceptable to the indemnifying party), and the indemnified party's reasonable attorney's fees and expenses related to such claim shall be paid by the indemnifying party. Neither party shall, without the consent of the other party, agree to any non-monetary settlement of the indemnified claim.
          (a) Upon a determination of liability by final and non-appealable court judgment or order in respect of Section 6.1 or 6.2, the appropriate party shall pay the other party the amount so determined (subject to the limitations of Section 6.3) within 15 Business Days after the date of determination of liability by Final Judgment (such fifteenth Business Day, the "Due Date"). If there should be a dispute as to the amount or manner of determination of any indemnity obligation owed under Section 6.1 or 6.2, the indemnifying party shall nevertheless pay when due such portion, if any, of the obligation as shall not be subject to dispute. The difference, if any, between the amount of the obligation ultimately determined as properly payable under this Agreement and the portion, if any, theretofore paid shall bear interest as provided below in Section 6.4(b). Upon the payment in full of any claim, the indemnifying party or other Person making payment shall be subrogated to the rights of the indemnified party against any Person with respect to the subject matter of such claim. For purposes of this Section 6.4, "Final Judgment" means a judicial or other determination as to which no appeal or other review is pending or in effect and any deadline for filing any such appeal or review that may be designated by statute, rule, stipulation or other agreement has passed.
          (b) If all or part of any indemnification obligation under Section 6.1 or 6.2 of this Agreement is not paid on the Due Date, then the indemnifying party shall pay the indemnified party interest on the unpaid amount of the obligation for each calendar day from the Due Date until payment in full, payable on demand, at a rate per annum equal to the Prime Rate on the Due Date.
     Except for payment of amounts due, neither party shall be held liable for any delay or failure in performance of any part of this Agreement, including the Service Attachment, from any cause beyond its reasonable control and not primarily attributable to its fault or negligence, including, but not limited to, acts of God, acts of civil or military authority, embargoes, epidemics, war, terrorist acts, riots, insurrections, fires, explosions, earthquakes, nuclear accidents, floods, strikes, or disruptions in Internet and other telecommunication networks and backbones, power and other utilities. Upon the occurrence of a condition described in this Article, the party whose performance is prevented shall provide written notice to the other party, and the parties shall promptly confer, in good faith, on what action may be taken to minimize the impact, on both parties, of such condition.
 
     8.1 . Subject to the limitations set forth in the Services Attachment, Spinco shall have the right to terminate any Transition Service, in whole or in part, upon 30 days prior written notice to AT Co. If all Transition Services shall have been migrated or terminated under this provision prior to the expiration of this Agreement, then Spinco shall have the right to terminate this Agreement upon written notice to AT Co.
Termination of Transition Services and Agreement for Convenience
     8.2 . In the event: (i) Spinco shall fail to pay for Transition Services in accordance with the terms of this Agreement (and such payment is not disputed by Spinco in good faith in accordance with Section 3.2); (ii) either party shall default, in any material respect, in the due performance or observance by it of any of the other terms, covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement; or (iii) either party shall become or be adjudicated insolvent and/or bankrupt, or a receiver or trustee shall be appointed for either party or its property or a petition for reorganization or arrangement under any bankruptcy or insolvency law shall be approved, or either party shall file a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or shall consent to the appointment of a receiver or trustee, any non-defaulting party shall have the right, at its sole discretion, (A) in the case of a default under clause (iii), to immediately terminate its participation with the defaulting party under this Agreement, and (B) in the case of a default under clause (i) or (ii), to terminate its participation with the defaulting party under this Agreement if the defaulting Party has failed to (x) cure the default within 30 days of written notice of default or if the default (except for defaults as a result of failure to make payment) is such that it will take more than 30 days to cure, within an extended time period which shall be not longer than what is reasonably necessary to effect performance or compliance or (y) diligently pursue the curing of the default.
Termination for Default
     8.2 . This Agreement shall automatically terminate upon termination of the Distribution Agreement.
Termination of Distribution Agreement
     8.3 . Each of AT Co. and Spinco will, and will cause their respective Affiliates to cooperate with the other party and its Affiliates to assure an orderly transition from the systems and procedures utilized by AT Co. and its Affiliates in connection with the Spinco Business to those systems and procedures to be utilized by Spinco and its Affiliates in connection with the Spinco Business after Closing.
Transitional Cooperation
     8.4 . As a Transition Service is migrated or terminated, whichever is earlier, each of AT Co. and Spinco will, and will cause their respective Affiliates to, return all material and property owned by the other party and its Affiliates, including, without limitation, any and all material and property of a proprietary nature involving the other party and its Affiliates relevant to the provision of that Transition Service and no longer needed regarding the performance of other Transition Services under this Agreement within 30 days after the applicable migration or termination. Upon termination of this Agreement, each of AT Co. and Spinco will, and will cause their respective Affiliates to, return any and all material and property of a proprietary nature involving the other party and its Affiliates, in its possession or control
Return of Material
 
within 30 days after the termination of this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, upon the termination or expiration of this Agreement, Spinco shall cease all access to AT Co.'s information, data, systems and other assets that are not Spinco Assets.
     8.5 . The provisions of Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10 shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.
Effect of Termination
     9.1 . Each party shall comply, at its own expense, with the provisions of all Laws applicable to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the description of the Transition Services in this Agreement, neither AT Co. nor any of its Affiliates shall provide any services that would involve the rendering of legal, regulatory or tax advice or counsel.
Compliance with Laws
     9.2 . AT Co. represents and warrants that AT Co. and its Affiliates, as the case may be, will provide the Transition Services in a timely and professional manner generally consistent with the past practices of AT Co. and its Affiliates in providing the same or similar services to the Spinco Business prior to the execution of the Distribution Agreement.
Performance
     9.3 . AT Co. or its Affiliates will maintain complete and accurate books and records pertaining to its provision of the Transition Services. AT Co. or its Affiliates will provide Spinco, upon reasonable notice and during normal business hours, with access to such books and records. All such information shall be subject to the terms of the confidentiality provisions set forth in Section 10.16 hereof.
Books and Records
     9.4 . EXCEPT FOR THE REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER PARTY NOR ANY OTHER PERSON MAKES ANY OTHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY ON BEHALF OF EITHER PARTY WITH RESPECT TO THE TRANSITION SERVICES, AT LAW OR IN EQUITY, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WITH RESPECT TO MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND ANY SUCH OTHER REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES ARE HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED.
No Other Representations or Warranties
     10.1 . The parties declare and agree that each party is engaged in a business that is independent from that of the other party and each party shall perform its obligations as an independent contractor. It is expressly understood and agreed that Spinco and AT Co. are not partners or joint ventures, and nothing contained herein is intended to create an agency relationship or a partnership or joint venture. Neither AT Co. nor any of its Affiliates is an agent of Spinco or any of its Affiliates and has no authority to represent Spinco or
Relationship of the Parties
 
any of its Affiliates as to any matters, except as authorized in this Agreement or in writing by Spinco from time to time. Neither Spinco nor any of its Affiliates is an agent of AT Co. or any of its Affiliates and has no authority to represent AT Co. or any of its Affiliates as to any matters, except as authorized in this Agreement or in writing by AT Co. from time to time.
     10.2 . AT Co. shall be solely responsible for payment of compensation to its employees and for any injury to them in the course of their employment. AT Co. shall assume full responsibility for payment of all federal, state and local taxes or contributions imposed or required under unemployment insurance, social security and income tax laws with respect to such persons. Spinco shall be solely responsible for payment of compensation to its employees and for any injury to them in the course of their employment. Spinco shall assume full responsibility for payment of all federal, state and local taxes or contributions imposed or required under unemployment insurance, social security and income tax laws with respect to such persons.
Employees of the Parties
     10.3 . All notices and other communications required or permitted hereunder may be telephonic, by electronic mail or in writing and will be deemed to have been given when provided to the appropriate party in accordance with the contact information specified below:
Notices
     If to AT Co., to:
ALLTEL Corporation One Allied Drive Little Rock, AR 72202 Attention: Chief Legal Officer
     If to Spinco, to:
Prior to Merger:
Alltel Holding Corp. 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, AR 72212 Attention: General Counsel
Following Merger:
Windstream Corporation 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, AR 72212 Attention: General Counsel
or to such other Person or contact information as either party may from time to time designate for itself by like notice.
 
     10.4 .
Governing Law
          (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the internal Laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law.
          (b) The parties hereby irrevocably waive any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or related to this Agreement.
     10.5 .
Assignment
          (a) Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, benefits or obligations hereunder may be assigned or delegated by Spinco or AT Co. (whether by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld; provided, however, (i) this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Windstream Corporation, as the successor corporation in the merger of Spinco with and into the Company as part of the Merger without the consent or other action by any party hereto and (ii) in all other cases no such consent shall be required for an assignment or delegation by any party hereto to a successor to all or a substantial portion of the assets or the business of such party so long as such assignee or delegee executes a written assumption of such party's obligations hereunder with respect to the rights or obligations assigned or delegated, and delivers such written assumption to the other party within a reasonable period of time after the effective date of such assignment or delegation. Subject to the preceding sentences, this Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Spinco and AT Co. and their respective successors and permitted assigns
     10.6 . This Agreement (including the Schedules and Exhibits attached hereto) constitutes the entire agreement between the parties pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, arrangements and understandings of the parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
     10.7 . Any provision of this Agreement may be amended if, and only if, such amendment is in writing and signed by both parties. Any provision of this Agreement may be waived to the extent permitted by applicable Law if, and only if, such waiver is in writing and signed by the party granting the waiver. No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege.
Amendments and Waivers
     10.8 . The headings of the Articles and Sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction hereof.
Headings
     10.9 . Each term or provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable Law, but in case any one or more of the provisions contained herein shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall be ineffective to the extent but only to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability, without rendering invalid or unenforceable the remainder of such provision or provisions of this Agreement; provided,
Severability
 
however, that if the removal of such offending provision materially alters the burdens or benefits of either of the parties under this Agreement, the parties agree to negotiate in good faith such modifications to this Agreement, if any, as are appropriate to ensure that the burdens and benefits of each party under such modified Agreement are reasonably comparable to the burdens and benefits originally contemplated herein.
     10.10 . With the exception of the parties to this Agreement and their respective successors and permitted assigns, and there shall exist no right of any person to claim a beneficial interest in this Agreement or any rights arising out of this Agreement; provided, however, that with respect to Section 1.4 and Section 5.2 only, the Company is and shall be a stated and intended third party beneficiary; provided, however, that with respect to Section 1.4 and Section 5.2 only, the Company is and shall be a stated and intended third party beneficiary.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries
     10.11 . Except as otherwise provided herein, all rights, powers and remedies provided under this Agreement or otherwise available in respect hereof at law or in equity shall be cumulative and not alternative, and the exercise or beginning of the exercise of any right, power or remedy by a party shall not preclude the simultaneous or later exercise of any other such right, power or remedy by such party.
Remedies Cumulative
     10.12 . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the parties shall bear their own expenses (including all time and expenses of counsel, financial advisors, consultants, actuaries and independent accountants) incurred in connection with this Agreement.
Expenses
     10.13 . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, which may be delivered by facsimile, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
     10.14 . The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or any covenant set forth in this Agreement is otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to enforce specifically the performance of this Agreement in accordance with its terms and provisions and to prevent breaches of covenants set forth in this Agreement. The foregoing right is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other rights a party hereto may have in respect of a breach of this Agreement, whether at law or in equity.
Specific Performance
     10.15 . The obligations under this Agreement shall not be subject to set-off for non-performance or any monetary or non-monetary claim by any party or any of their respective Affiliates under any other agreement between the parties or any of their respective Affiliates.
No Set-Off
     10.16 .
Confidentiality
          (a) AT Co. and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, partners, managers, shareholders, employees, agents and representatives will not disclose any confidential information about Spinco or any of its Affiliates obtained as a result of the exercise of its rights or performance of its obligations under this Agreement unless disclosure is compelled by judicial
 
or administrative process or, based on advice of such Person's counsel, by other requirements of law. The obligations of AT Co. under this Section 10.16(a) will survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.
          (b) Spinco and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, partners, managers, shareholders, employees, agents and representatives will not disclose any confidential information about AT Co. or any of its Affiliates obtained as a result of the exercise of its rights or performance of its obligations under this Agreement unless disclosure is compelled by judicial or administrative process or, based on advice of such Person's counsel, by other requirements of law. The obligations of Spinco under this Section 10.16(b) will survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.
     10.17 If either party or its personnel will be given access to the other party's facilities, premises, equipment or systems, such party will comply with all such other party's written security policies, procedures and requirements made available by each party to the other, and will not tamper with, compromise, or circumvent any security or audit measures employed by such other party. Each party shall use its reasonable best efforts to ensure that only those of its personnel who are specifically authorized to have access to the facilities, premises, equipment or systems of the other party gain such access, and to prevent unauthorized access, use, destruction, alteration or loss in connection with such access.
Facilities and Systems Security.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Agreement as of the date first above written.

 
Exhibit 10.2
     This Reverse Transition Services Agreement (this "Agreement"), dated as of July 17, 2006 (the "Signing Date"), is entered between ALLTEL Corporation, a Delaware corporation, on behalf of itself and its affiliates ("AT Co."), and Alltel Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of AT Co., on behalf of itself and its affiliates ("Spinco").
     WHEREAS, AT Co. and Spinco are parties to that certain Distribution Agreement dated December 8, 2005, as amended (the "Distribution Agreement"; capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Distribution Agreement), pursuant to which, among other things, AT Co. will distribute to its stockholders all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Spinco (the "Distribution"); and
     WHEREAS, in connection with the Distribution, the parties desire that Spinco and its Affiliates provide certain services to AT Co. and its Affiliates on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:
     1.1 . This Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions for the provision by Spinco to AT Co. of various transition services described herein and in the service attachment (the "Service Attachment") attached hereto as and any statement of work (an "SOW") to be added hereto and numbered appropriately (collectively, the "Transition Services"), pursuant to the terms hereof.
Transition Services
Exhibit A
     1.2 . Commencing on the date hereof and continuing through the Term (as defined in Article 2 of this Agreement), Spinco will provide the Transition Services to AT Co., unless (a) otherwise indicated on the Service Attachment, (b) automatically modified by termination of a Transition Service by AT Co. in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof, (c) otherwise mutually agreed to by the parties in writing, or (d) this Agreement is terminated in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof.
Provision of Transition Services
     1.3 . From time to time, AT Co. may request that Spinco provide additional or modified services that relate to the transition of ownership and operation of the AT Co. Business but are not described in the Service Attachment. Spinco will use, and will cause each of its Affiliates to use, its reasonable best efforts to accommodate any reasonable requests by AT Co. to provide additional or modified services relating to the transition of ownership and operations of the AT Co. Business. In order to initiate a request for such additional or modified services, AT Co. shall submit a written request to Spinco specifying the nature of the requested additional or modified services and
Purchase of Additional or Modified Transition Services
 
requesting an estimate of the Transition Services Costs (as defined in Section 3.1) applicable to such additional or modified services. Spinco shall respond to such request within 10 Business Days following Spinco's receipt of such request; provided that, subject to the second sentence of Section 1.3, such 10 Business Day period shall be subject to a reasonable extension if, due to the volume, frequency or type of requests submitted by AT Co., Spinco's preparation of responses to such requests is materially interfering with, or is likely to materially interfere with, Spinco's normal business activities. If Spinco can, subject to the second sentence of this Section 1.3, accommodate AT Co.'s request to provide such additional or modified services, and if AT Co. accepts the terms and conditions set forth in Spinco's response to such request, then such additional or modified services shall be provided hereunder subject to the terms and conditions of Spinco's response and such other terms and conditions as may be agreed to by the parties in a written amendment to this Agreement. If Spinco agrees to any modification to the physical facilities that is requested by AT Co. in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Section, such modification shall be done solely at AT Co.'s cost and expense and shall be coordinated by the parties to minimize interference with Spinco's normal business activities. No representative of AT Co. shall have authority to make decisions with respect to Spinco and its responsibilities under this Agreement; and no representative of Spinco shall have authority to make decisions with respect to AT Co. and its responsibilities under this Agreement.
     1.4 . Each party shall designate one or more persons who have practical knowledge and experience in each area of Spinco's operations that relate to the Transition Services and are authorized to make decisions with respect to the Transition Services (each a "Transition Team"). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject to the foregoing proviso each Transition Team will include persons from such party and its Affiliates whose experience includes the following areas: (a) information technology systems, (b) billing, (c) human resources, (d) customer service, (e) accounting and finance, (f) engineering and network, (g) sales and marketing, (h) operations, (i) real estate, (j) branding, and (k) capital asset management. Each party shall designate a member of its Transition Team as the leader of its Transition Team (each a "Team Leader"). Each Team Leader shall coordinate the assignment of persons to its Transition Team and shall assess and monitor the performance of the Transition Services. Prior to the initial joint meeting described in Section 1.5 of this Agreement, each party shall submit to the other party a written list identifying its initial Team Leader and the initial members of its Transition Team including each person's title, areas of expertise and relevant telephone, fax and email information. If a Transition Team member or Team Leader shall be unavailable to work on the Transition Services for more than five (5) Business Days, then he or she shall appoint a temporary or permanent replacement.
Appointment of Transition Teams
     1.5 . Within 30 Business Days after the Signing Date, the appropriate representatives of the Transition Teams shall conduct an initial joint meeting for the purpose of defining roles, responsibilities, scope and timelines related to the Transition Services. Thereafter, the Transition Teams shall convene meetings on a mutually agreed upon periodic basis as required. It is the expectation of the parties that the Transition Team members shall communicate directly with one another and work directly with one another to ensure that all Transition Services are completed on a timely and complete basis; provided that, except for Spinco's Team Leader, the members of Spinco's Transition Team shall not have the legal authority to make or to modify any obligation or to waive any right on behalf of Spinco The
Transition Team Meetings
 
Team Leaders shall meet, at least weekly, or on such other mutually agreed upon periodic basis as required, to discuss the status of the Transition Services, as well as to answer questions, gather information and resolve disputes that may occur from time-to-time. All meetings pursuant to this Section 1.5 may be face-to-face, video or telephonic meetings as may be agreed upon by the parties. Each party shall bear its own costs of attending or participating in Transition Team meetings.
     1.6 . The Transition Teams will be accountable for overseeing the completion of the Transition Services in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof. Unless otherwise provided in the Service Attachment, the parties will use their reasonable best efforts to respond to requests for information within 5 Business Days after receipt of each such request.
Oversee Completion of Transition Services
     1.7 . From time to time, AT Co. may request that Spinco make available to AT Co. a resource of Spinco that has expertise in the subject matter (which must be directly related to the systems and procedures utilized by Spinco and its Affiliates in connection with the AT Co. Business) specified by AT Co. in such request. Within 5 Business Days after receipt by Spinco of a reasonable request by AT Co. that a specified subject matter expert be made available, Spinco shall make, and shall cause its Affiliates to make, such subject matter experts (including, without limitation, technical and operational personnel) available to AT Co.'s Transition Team or other subject matter experts during Spinco's normal business hours. For purposes of determining the reasonableness of any such request by AT Co., Spinco shall consider the specified subject matter expert's other duties and then-current schedule as well as the availability of other individuals with the same skills as the specified subject matter expert.
Availability of Subject Matter Experts
     1.8 . Spinco shall keep the equipment and software used to provide the Transition Services in working order with sufficient capacity to perform the Transition Services concurrent with the equipment's and software's other use for Spinco, if any; provided, however, if Spinco is required to increase the capacity of its equipment or software (for example, because previously shared hardware capacity must be duplicated) to perform the Transition Services, then Spinco shall obtain AT Co.'s prior written approval of any additional cost or expense that Spinco expects to incur in connection with such increase in capacity, and AT Co. shall pay any such additional cost or expense incurred by Spinco to provide such increased capacity to the extent so approved by AT Co.
Equipment and Software
     1.9 . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, Spinco and AT Co. shall each use reasonable best efforts to provide information and documentation sufficient for each party to perform the Transition Services as they were performed before the date of this Agreement, and make available, as reasonably requested by the other party, sufficient resources and timely decisions, approvals and acceptances in order that each party may accomplish its obligations under this Agreement in a timely and efficient manner.
General Cooperation
     1.10 . Unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement, if AT Co. makes any change in the processes, procedures, practices, networks, equipment, configurations,
Modifications
 
or systems pertaining to the AT Co. Business, and such change has an adverse impact on Spinco's ability to provide any of the Transition Services, then Spinco shall be excused from performance of any such affected Transition Services until AT Co. mitigates the adverse impact of such change, and AT Co. shall be responsible for all direct expenses incurred by Spinco in connection with the cessation and, if applicable, the resumption of the affected Transition Services.
     Unless terminated earlier in accordance with Article 8 of this Agreement, the term of this Agreement shall expire on the one-year anniversary of the Signing Date (the "Term"), except AT Co. shall have the right to extend the Term for an additional 30 days by providing written notice to Spinco at least 60 days prior to the expiration of the Term indicating AT Co.'s election to extend the Term. . The parties may agree in any SOW to a longer period of time for performance of Services, and in that event the Term shall be extended for such time but only with respect to such SOW. AT Co. may extend the period of time for which a particular Service will be required by an additional 30 days if AT Co. delivers written notice of such election to Spinco no later than 30 days prior to the scheduled expiration date of such Service, provided that no such election shall extend the period of performance of such Service beyond the expiration of the Term and AT Co. may exercise this extension right only once as to any particular Service.
     3.1 . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the total compensation payable by AT Co. to Spinco for each and every Transition Service provided pursuant to the Service Attachment shall be set forth in the Services Attachment (the "Transition Services Costs").
Compensation for Transition Services
     3.2 . Within 30 days after the end of each calendar month during the Term, or extension thereof, Spinco shall bill AT Co. in arrears for the Transition Services Costs that apply to the Transition Services performed by Spinco Each of Spinco's invoices shall describe in reasonable detail the Transition Services upon which the applicable Transition Services Costs are based. Within 30 days after AT Co.'s receipt of each of Spinco's invoices, AT Co. shall pay Spinco the amount of such invoice. If such payment is not received by Spinco within such 30-day period, AT Co. shall also pay Spinco interest from and after the last date of the calendar month in respect of such invoice, but excluding the date of payment by AT Co., at a rate per annum equal to the Prime Rate on the last day of the calendar month in respect of such invoice. If AT Co. disputes in good faith any portion of the amount due on any invoice, AT Co. shall notify Spinco in writing of the nature and basis of the dispute within 10 Business Days after AT Co.'s receipt of such invoice. Otherwise the invoiced amount shall be deemed to be accurate and correct and shall not be subject to dispute or contest by AT Co. or any Affiliate thereof. The parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to resolve the dispute prior to the payment due date. Spinco shall reimburse AT Co. within 30 days following, as applicable (a) agreement by the
Payment Terms
 
parties of any excess payment made by AT Co. in respect of Transition Services, or (b) resolution of any disputed amounts paid in excess of the amount of Transition Services Costs, in either case, with interest from and after the date payment was made by AT Co. through, but excluding, the date of reimbursement by Spinco, at the rate per annum equal to the Prime Rate on the date payment was made by AT Co.
     3.3 . All charges and fees to be paid by AT Co. under this Agreement are exclusive of any applicable withholding, sales, use, value added, excise, services or other United States or foreign tax which may be assessed on the provision of the Transition Services. In the event that a withholding, sales, use, value added, excise, value added services or other United States or foreign tax is assessed on the provision of any of the Transition Services provided to AT Co. under this Agreement, AT Co. will pay directly, reimburse or indemnify Spinco for such taxes, as well as any applicable interest and penalties. The parties will cooperate with each other in determining the extent to which any tax is due and owing under the circumstances, and shall provide and make available to each other any resale certificates, information regarding out-of-state or country use of materials, services or sale, and other exemption certificates or information reasonably requested by either party. This section shall have no application to any tax based upon the income of Spinco.
Taxes
     4.1 . If there is any conflict or inconsistency between the terms and conditions set forth in the main body of this Agreement and any of the Exhibits to this Agreement, the provisions of the Exhibits shall control with respect to the rights and obligations of the parties regarding the Transition Services. If there is any conflict or inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Distribution Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall control solely with respect to the rights and obligations of the parties regarding the Transition Services.
Controlling Provisions
     5.1 . If a dispute arises between the parties with respect to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or any subject matter governed by this Agreement (excluding disputes regarding a party's compliance with the applicable confidentiality provisions or in the case of suit to compel compliance with this dispute resolution process or with the provisions of this Article) (a "Dispute") the parties agree to use and follow this dispute resolution procedure before initiating any judicial action. At such time as the Dispute is resolved under this Article, interest (at the Prime Rate) shall be paid to the party receiving any disputed monies to compensate for the lapsed time between the date such disputed amount originally was paid or should have been paid through the date monies are paid in settlement of the Dispute.
Dispute Resolution Procedures
 
     5.2 . The Transition Teams shall escalate any Dispute to the Team Leaders for resolution. Upon receipt of any such escalated matter, the Team Leaders shall discuss and attempt to resolve the matter within 15 Business Days immediately following the escalation. If by the end of the fifteenth Business Day, the matter has not been resolved to the satisfaction of both Team Leaders, then the party that initiated the claim shall provide written notification to the other party in accordance with Section 10.3 of this Agreement, in the form of a claim identifying the issue or amount disputed and including a detailed reason for the claim. The party against whom the claim is made shall respond in writing to the claim within 15 Business Days from the date of receipt of the claim document. The party filing the claim shall have an additional 15 Business Days after the receipt of the response to either accept any resolution offered by the other party or request implementation of the procedures set forth in Section 5.3 (the "Escalation Procedures"). Failure to meet the time limitations set forth in this Section may result in the implementation of the Escalation Procedures.
Claims Procedures
     5.3 . Upon receipt of the written notice of a party involved in the Dispute and in compliance with Section 5.2, each party shall appoint a knowledgeable, responsible representative to negotiate in good faith to resolve any unresolved disputes or claims arising under this Agreement. The parties intend that these negotiations be conducted by experienced business representatives empowered to decide the issues. The business representatives shall meet and attempt to resolve the Dispute within 15 Business Days of receiving the written request. If they can resolve the Dispute within that time period, it will be memorialized in a written settlement and release agreement, executed within five Business Days thereafter. If they can not resolve the Dispute within that time period, then the parties may resort to judicial action or other remedies. The parties may vary the duration and form of these Escalation Procedures by mutual written agreement.
Escalation Procedure
     6.1
Indemnification by Spinco
          (a) Spinco shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless each AT Co. Indemnitee (as defined in the Distribution Agreement), against and in respect of any and all Indemnifiable Losses incurred or suffered by any AT Co. Indemnitee that result from, relate to or arise out of any default by Spinco in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or any third party claim against any AT Co. Indemnitee based upon the negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct of any of the Spinco Indemnitees that arise out of or result from any default by Spinco in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, except to the extent that any such Indemnifiable Losses arise out of or result from the negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct of any AT Co. Indemnitee.
          (b) In the case of Indemnifiable Losses incurred by AT Co. Indemnitees that arise out of or result from any default by Spinco in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement based upon the negligence of any of the Spinco Indemnitees, indemnification shall be limited to actual damages which in no event shall exceed the total amount of compensation payable to Spinco hereunder. For the avoidance of doubt, in the case of Indemnifiable Losses
 
incurred by the AT Co. Indemnitees that arise out of or result from any default by Spinco in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement based upon the gross negligence or willful misconduct of any of the Spinco Indemnitees, indemnification shall be limited to actual damages without regard to the total amount of compensation payable to Spinco hereunder.
     6.2
Indemnification by AT Co.
          (a) AT Co. shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless each Spinco Indemnitee (as defined in the Distribution Agreement), against and in respect of any and all Indemnifiable Losses incurred or suffered by any Spinco Indemnitee that result from, relate to or arise out of any default by AT Co. in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or any third party claim against any Spinco Indemnitee based upon the negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct of any of the AT Co. Indemnitees that arise out of or result from any default by AT Co. in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, except to the extent that any such Indemnifiable Losses arise out of or result from the negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct of any Spinco Indemnitee.
          (b) In the case of Indemnifiable Losses incurred by Spinco Indemnitees that arise out of or result from any default by AT Co. in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement based upon the negligence of any of the AT Co. Indemnitees, indemnification shall be limited to actual damages which in no event shall exceed the total amount of compensation payable to Spinco hereunder. For the avoidance of doubt, in the case of Indemnifiable Losses incurred by the Spinco Indemnitees that arise out of or result from any default by AT Co. in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement based upon the gross negligence or willful misconduct of any of the AT Co. Indemnitees, indemnification shall be limited to actual damages without regard to the total amount of compensation payable to Spinco hereunder.
     6.3 .
Limitations
          (a) In no event shall either party hereto be liable for indirect, special, consequential or punitive damages arising out of this Agreement, regardless of the form of action, whether in contract, warranty, strict liability or tort, including negligence of any kind, whether active or passive, and regardless of whether the other party knew of or was advised at the time of breach of the possibility of such damages.
          (b) Except as otherwise provided in this Article 6, Spinco's sole responsibility to AT Co. for errors or omissions in providing the Transition Services shall be to re-perform such Transition Services properly in a diligent manner, at no additional cost or expense; provided, however, that each party shall use reasonable best efforts to detect any such errors or omissions and promptly advise the other party or parties of any such error or omission of which it becomes aware.
     6.4 A party that is seeking indemnification pursuant to Section 6.1 or 6.2 shall notify the other party thereof and shall specify in reasonable detail the event(s) giving rise to such claim for indemnification within 15 Business Days after the indemnified party has actual knowledge of such event(s), except that any failure to give such notice will not waive any rights of the
 
indemnified party unless the rights of the indemnifying party are actually and materially prejudiced thereby. The indemnifying party shall have the right to undertake the defense of any claim upon delivery of notice to the indemnified party with respect to such claim. Such defense shall be made with counsel reasonably acceptable to the indemnified party. If the indemnifying party fails to undertake the defense of the indemnified party within such time period, the indemnified party may retain its own counsel for such defense (which shall be reasonably acceptable to the indemnifying party), and the indemnified party's reasonable attorney's fees and expenses related to such claim shall be paid by the indemnifying party. Neither party shall, without the consent of the other party, agree to any non-monetary settlement of the indemnified claim.
          (a) Upon a determination of liability by final and non-appealable court judgment or order in respect of Section 6.1 or 6.2, the appropriate party shall pay the other party the amount so determined (subject to the limitations of Section 6.3) within 15 Business Days after the date of determination of liability by Final Judgment (such fifteenth Business Day, the "Due Date"). If there should be a dispute as to the amount or manner of determination of any indemnity obligation owed under Section 6.1 or 6.2, the indemnifying party shall nevertheless pay when due such portion, if any, of the obligation as shall not be subject to dispute. The difference, if any, between the amount of the obligation ultimately determined as properly payable under this Agreement and the portion, if any, theretofore paid shall bear interest as provided below in Section 6.4(b). Upon the payment in full of any claim, the indemnifying party or other Person making payment shall be subrogated to the rights of the indemnified party against any Person with respect to the subject matter of such claim. For purposes of this Section 6.4, "Final Judgment" means a judicial or other determination as to which no appeal or other review is pending or in effect and any deadline for filing any such appeal or review that may be designated by statute, rule, stipulation or other agreement has passed.
          (b) If all or part of any indemnification obligation under Section 6.1 or 6.2 of this Agreement is not paid on the Due Date, then the indemnifying party shall pay the indemnified party interest on the unpaid amount of the obligation for each calendar day from the Due Date until payment in full, payable on demand, at a rate per annum equal to the Prime Rate on the Due Date.
     Except for payment of amounts due, neither party shall be held liable for any delay or failure in performance of any part of this Agreement, including the Service Attachment, from any cause beyond its reasonable control and not primarily attributable to its fault or negligence, including, but not limited to, acts of God, acts of civil or military authority, embargoes, epidemics, war, terrorist acts, riots, insurrections, fires, explosions, earthquakes, nuclear accidents, floods, strikes, or disruptions in Internet and other telecommunication networks and backbones, power and other utilities. Upon the occurrence of a condition described in this Article, the party whose performance is prevented shall provide written notice to the other party, and the parties shall promptly confer, in good faith, on what action may be taken to minimize the impact, on both parties, of such condition.
 
     8.1 . Subject to the limitations set forth in the Services Attachment, AT Co. shall have the right to terminate any Transition Service, in whole or in part, upon 30 days prior written notice to Spinco If all Transition Services shall have been migrated or terminated under this provision prior to the expiration of this Agreement, then AT Co. shall have the right to terminate this Agreement upon written notice to Spinco
Termination of Transition Services and Agreement for Convenience
     8.2 . In the event: (i) AT Co. shall fail to pay for Transition Services in accordance with the terms of this Agreement (and such payment is not disputed by AT Co. in good faith in accordance with Section 3.2); (ii) either party shall default, in any material respect, in the due performance or observance by it of any of the other terms, covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement; or (iii) either party shall become or be adjudicated insolvent and/or bankrupt, or a receiver or trustee shall be appointed for either party or its property or a petition for reorganization or arrangement under any bankruptcy or insolvency law shall be approved, or either party shall file a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or shall consent to the appointment of a receiver or trustee, any non-defaulting party shall have the right, at its sole discretion, (A) in the case of a default under clause (iii), to immediately terminate its participation with the defaulting party under this Agreement, and (B) in the case of a default under clause (i) or (ii), to terminate its participation with the defaulting party under this Agreement if the defaulting Party has failed to (x) cure the default within 30 days of written notice of default or if the default (except for defaults as a result of failure to make payment) is such that it will take more than 30 days to cure, within an extended time period which shall be not longer than what is reasonably necessary to effect performance or compliance or (y) diligently pursue the curing of the default.
Termination for Default
     8.2 . This Agreement shall automatically terminate upon termination of the Distribution Agreement.
Termination of Distribution Agreement
     8.3 . Each of Spinco and AT Co. will, and will cause their respective Affiliates to cooperate with the other party and its Affiliates to assure an orderly transition from the systems and procedures utilized by Spinco and its Affiliates in connection with the AT Co. Business to those systems and procedures to be utilized by AT Co. and its Affiliates in connection with the AT Co. Business after Closing.
Transitional Cooperation
     8.4 . As a Transition Service is migrated or terminated, whichever is earlier, each of Spinco and AT Co. will, and will cause their respective Affiliates to, return all material and property owned by the other party and its Affiliates, including, without limitation, any and all material and property of a proprietary nature involving the other party and its Affiliates relevant to the provision of that Transition Service and no longer needed regarding the performance of other Transition Services under this Agreement within 30 days after the applicable migration or termination. Upon termination of this Agreement, each of Spinco and AT Co. will, and will cause their respective Affiliates to, return any and all material and property of a proprietary nature involving the other party and its Affiliates, in its possession or control
Return of Material
 
within 30 days after the termination of this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, upon the termination or expiration of this Agreement, AT Co. shall cease all access to Spinco's information, data, systems and other assets that are not AT Co. Assets.
     8.5 . The provisions of Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10 shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.
Effect of Termination
     9.1 . Each party shall comply, at its own expense, with the provisions of all Laws applicable to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the description of the Transition Services in this Agreement, neither Spinco nor any of its Affiliates shall provide any services that would involve the rendering of legal, regulatory or tax advice or counsel.
Compliance with Laws
     9.2 . Spinco represents and warrants that Spinco and its Affiliates, as the case may be, will provide the Transition Services in a timely and professional manner generally consistent with the past practices of Spinco and its Affiliates in providing the same or similar services to the AT Co. Business prior to the execution of the Distribution Agreement.
Performance
     9.3 . Spinco or its Affiliates will maintain complete and accurate books and records pertaining to its provision of the Transition Services. Spinco or its Affiliates will provide AT Co., upon reasonable notice and during normal business hours, with access to such books and records. All such information shall be subject to the terms of the confidentiality provisions set forth in Section 10.16 hereof.
Books and Records
     9.4 . EXCEPT FOR THE REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER PARTY NOR ANY OTHER PERSON MAKES ANY OTHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY ON BEHALF OF EITHER PARTY WITH RESPECT TO THE TRANSITION SERVICES, AT LAW OR IN EQUITY, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WITH RESPECT TO MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND ANY SUCH OTHER REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES ARE HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED.
No Other Representations or Warranties
     10.1 . The parties declare and agree that each party is engaged in a business that is independent from that of the other party and each party shall perform its obligations as an independent contractor. It is expressly understood and agreed that AT Co. and Spinco are not partners or joint ventures, and nothing contained herein is intended to create an agency relationship or a partnership or joint venture. Neither Spinco nor any of its Affiliates is an agent of AT Co. or any of its Affiliates and has no authority to represent AT Co.
Relationship of the Parties
 
or any of its Affiliates as to any matters, except as authorized in this Agreement or in writing by AT Co. from time to time. Neither AT Co. nor any of its Affiliates is an agent of Spinco or any of its Affiliates and has no authority to represent Spinco or any of its Affiliates as to any matters, except as authorized in this Agreement or in writing by Spinco from time to time.
     10.2 . Spinco shall be solely responsible for payment of compensation to its employees and for any injury to them in the course of their employment. Spinco shall assume full responsibility for payment of all federal, state and local taxes or contributions imposed or required under unemployment insurance, social security and income tax laws with respect to such persons. AT Co. shall be solely responsible for payment of compensation to its employees and for any injury to them in the course of their employment. AT Co. shall assume full responsibility for payment of all federal, state and local taxes or contributions imposed or required under unemployment insurance, social security and income tax laws with respect to such persons.
Employees of the Parties
     10.3 . All notices and other communications required or permitted hereunder may be telephonic, by electronic mail or in writing and will be deemed to have been given when provided to the appropriate party in accordance with the contact information specified below:
Notices
     If to Spinco, to:
Prior to Merger:
Alltel Holding Corp. 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, AR 72212 Attention: General Counsel
Following Merger:
Windstream Corporation 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, AR 72212 Attention: General Counsel
     If to AT Co., to:
ALLTEL Corporation One Allied Drive Little Rock, AR 72202 Attention: Chief Legal Officer
or to such other Person or contact information as either party may from time to time designate for itself by like notice.
 
     10.4 .
Governing Law
          (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the internal Laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law.
          (b) The parties hereby irrevocably waive any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or related to this Agreement.
     10.5 .
Assignment
          (a) Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, benefits or obligations hereunder may be assigned or delegated by AT Co. or Spinco (whether by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld; provided, however (i) this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Windstream Corporation, as the successor corporation in the merger of Spinco with and into the Company as part of the Merger without the consent or other action by any party hereto and (ii) in all other cases no such consent shall be required for an assignment or delegation by any party hereto to a successor to all or a substantial portion of the assets or the business of such party so long as such assignee or delegee executes a written assumption of such party's obligations hereunder with respect to the rights or obligations assigned or delegated, and delivers such written assumption to the other party within a reasonable period of time after the effective date of such assignment or delegation. Subject to the preceding sentences, this Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by AT Co. and Spinco and their respective successors and permitted assigns
     10.6 . This Agreement (including the Schedules and Exhibits attached hereto) constitutes the entire agreement between the parties pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, arrangements and understandings of the parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
     10.7 . Any provision of this Agreement may be amended if, and only if, such amendment is in writing and signed by both parties. Any provision of this Agreement may be waived to the extent permitted by applicable Law if, and only if, such waiver is in writing and signed by the party granting the waiver. No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege.
Amendments and Waivers
     10.8 . The headings of the Articles and Sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction hereof.
Headings
     10.9 . Each term or provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable Law, but in case any one or more of the provisions contained herein shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall be ineffective to the extent but only to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability, without rendering invalid or unenforceable the remainder of such provision or provisions of this Agreement; provided,
Severability
 
however, that if the removal of such offending provision materially alters the burdens or benefits of either of the parties under this Agreement, the parties agree to negotiate in good faith such modifications to this Agreement, if any, as are appropriate to ensure that the burdens and benefits of each party under such modified Agreement are reasonably comparable to the burdens and benefits originally contemplated herein.
     10.10 . With the exception of the parties to this Agreement and their respective successors and permitted assigns, and there shall exist no right of any person to claim a beneficial interest in this Agreement or any rights arising out of this Agreement; provided, however, that with respect to Section 1.4 and Section 5.2 only, the Company is and shall be a stated and intended third party beneficiary.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries
     10.11 . Except as otherwise provided herein, all rights, powers and remedies provided under this Agreement or otherwise available in respect hereof at law or in equity shall be cumulative and not alternative, and the exercise or beginning of the exercise of any right, power or remedy by a party shall not preclude the simultaneous or later exercise of any other such right, power or remedy by such party.
Remedies Cumulative
     10.12 . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the parties shall bear their own expenses (including all time and expenses of counsel, financial advisors, consultants, actuaries and independent accountants) incurred in connection with this Agreement.
Expenses
     10.13 . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, which may be delivered by facsimile, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
     10.14 . The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or any covenant set forth in this Agreement is otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to enforce specifically the performance of this Agreement in accordance with its terms and provisions and to prevent breaches of covenants set forth in this Agreement. The foregoing right is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other rights a party hereto may have in respect of a breach of this Agreement, whether at law or in equity.
Specific Performance
     10.15 . The obligations under this Agreement shall not be subject to set-off for non-performance or any monetary or non-monetary claim by any party or any of their respective Affiliates under any other agreement between the parties or any of their respective Affiliates.
No Set-Off
     10.16 .
Confidentiality
          (a) Spinco and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, partners, managers, shareholders, employees, agents and representatives will not disclose any confidential information about AT Co. or any of its Affiliates obtained as a result of the exercise of its rights or performance of its obligations under this Agreement unless disclosure is compelled by judicial or administrative process or, based on advice of such Person's counsel, by other requirements of
 
law. The obligations of Spinco under this Section 10.16(a) will survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.
          (b) AT Co. and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, partners, managers, shareholders, employees, agents and representatives will not disclose any confidential information about Spinco or any of its Affiliates obtained as a result of the exercise of its rights or performance of its obligations under this Agreement unless disclosure is compelled by judicial or administrative process or, based on advice of such Person's counsel, by other requirements of law. The obligations of AT Co. under this Section 10.16(b) will survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.
     10.17 If either party or its personnel will be given access to the other party's facilities, premises, equipment or systems, such party will comply with all such other party's written security policies, procedures and requirements made available by each party to the other, and will not tamper with, compromise, or circumvent any security or audit measures employed by such other party. Each party shall use its reasonable best efforts to ensure that only those of its personnel who are specifically authorized to have access to the facilities, premises, equipment or systems of the other party gain such access, and to prevent unauthorized access, use, destruction, alteration or loss in connection with such access.
Facilities and Systems Security.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Agreement as of the date first above written.

 
Exhibit 10.3
     This Tax Sharing Agreement (this "Agreement") is entered into as of July 17, 2006, by and among ALLTEL Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("AT Co."), ALLTEL Holding Corp., a newly formed Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of AT Co. ("Spinco"), and Valor Communications Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Valor"). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Distribution Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2005, by and between AT Co. and Spinco, as amended on June 29, 2006 (the "Distribution Agreement").
     Whereas, AT Co. is the common parent corporation of an affiliated group of corporations within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), that has filed consolidated federal income tax returns.
     Whereas Spinco is a newly-formed, wholly owned subsidiary of AT Co.
     Whereas, pursuant to the Distribution Agreement, among other things, AT Co. will transfer or cause to be transferred to Spinco or one or more subsidiaries of Spinco (pursuant to certain preliminary restructuring transactions) all of the Spinco Assets, Spinco will assume or cause to be assumed all of the Spinco Liabilities, and Spinco will issue to AT Co. Spinco Common Stock and Spinco Exchange Notes and will pay the Special Dividend (the "Contribution").
     Whereas, on the Distribution Date, AT Co. will distribute all of the issued and outstanding shares of Spinco Common Stock on a pro rata basis to holders of the AT Co. Common Stock (the "Distribution").
     Whereas, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2005, by and among AT Co., Spinco and Valor (the " Merger Agreement"), following the Distribution, Spinco will merge with and into Valor pursuant to the Merger.
     Whereas, the parties to this Agreement intend that the Contribution, together with the Debt Exchange, qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), that the Distribution qualify as a distribution of Spinco stock to AT Co. stockholders pursuant to Section 355 of the Code, that the Merger qualify as a tax-free reorganization pursuant to Section 368 of the Code, and that no gain or loss be recognized as a result of such transactions for federal income tax purposes by any of AT Co., Spinco, and their respective stockholders (except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares).
     Whereas, AT Co., Spinco and Valor desire to set forth their rights and obligations with respect to Taxes (as defined herein) due for periods before and after the Distribution Date.
 
     NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
"Advisory Fees" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.06(b).
"Affiliate" shall mean any Person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common Control with a specified Person.
"Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.
"Applicable Federal Rate" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1274(d) of the Code, compounded quarterly.
"AT Co." shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
"AT Co. Group" shall mean AT Co. and all Subsidiaries of AT Co. at any time preceding, at or following the Contribution, but shall not include any member of the Spinco Group.
"AT Consolidated Group" shall mean any consolidated, combined or unitary group (i) of which AT Co. is the common parent corporation at any time or (ii) that otherwise included Spinco or any Spinco Subsidiary for any Pre-Distribution Period.
"AT Excess Expenses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.06(a).
"AT Tax Expenses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.06(b).
"Code" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.
"Combined Return" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
"Contribution" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
"Control" or "Controlled" shall mean, with respect to any Person, the presence of one of the following: (i) the legal, beneficial or equitable ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% (by vote or value) of the capital or voting stock (or other ownership or voting interest, if not a corporation) of such Person or (ii) the ability, directly or indirectly, to direct the voting of a majority of the directors of such Person's board of directors or, if the Person does not have a board of directors, a majority of the positions on any similar body, whether through appointment, voting agreement or otherwise.
"Controlling Party" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.01.
 
"Disqualifying Action" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2 of the Merger Agreement.
"Distribution" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
"Distribution Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
"Distribution Date" shall have the meaning set forth in the Distribution Agreement.
"Exchange Note Expenses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.06(b).
"Exchange Notes" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.06(b).
"Final Determination" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
"Income Taxes" shall mean any and all Taxes based upon or measured by net or gross income (including alternative minimum tax under Section 55 of the Code and including any liability described in clauses (ii) or (iii) of the definition of "Taxes" that relates to any Income Tax).
"Investment Banking Letter Agreements" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.06(b).
"Merger Advisory Fees" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.06(b).
"Other Taxes" shall mean any and all Taxes other than Income Taxes, including any liability described in clauses (ii) or (iii) of the definition of "Taxes" that relates to any Other Tax.
"Person" shall mean any individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or department or agency of a government.
"Post-Distribution Period" shall mean any taxable year or other taxable period beginning after the Distribution Date and, in the case of any taxable year or other taxable period that begins before and ends after the Distribution Date, that part of the taxable year or other taxable period that begins at the beginning of the day after the Distribution Date.
"Pre-Distribution Period" shall mean any taxable year or other taxable period that ends on or before the Distribution Date and, in the case of any taxable year or other taxable period that begins before and ends after the Distribution Date, that part of the taxable year or other taxable period through the close of the Distribution Date.
"Reimbursing Party" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.05(d).
 
"Reimbursed Party" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.05(d).
"Separate Return" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(b).
"Short Period Return" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(b).
"Spinco" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
"Spinco Credit/Note Expenses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.06(b).
"Spinco Group" shall mean Spinco and all entities that are Subsidiaries of Spinco immediately following the Contribution.
"Spinco Tax Expenses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.06(b).
" Spinco Transaction Expenses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.06(a).
"Straddle Return" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
"Straddle Period" shall mean any taxable period that includes but does not end on the Distribution Date.
"Subsidiary" shall mean a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture or other business entity if 50% or more of the outstanding equity or voting power of such entity is owned directly or indirectly by the corporation with respect to which such term is used.
"Tax" or "Taxes" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
"Tax Attribute" shall mean any net operating loss carryover, net capital loss carryover, investment tax credit carryover, foreign tax credit carryover, charitable deduction carryover or other similar item that could reduce Income Tax for a past or future taxable period.
"Tax Benefit" shall means, in the case of separate state, local or other Income Tax Return, the sum of the amount by which the Tax liability (after giving effect to any alternative minimum or similar Tax) of a corporation to the appropriate Taxing Authority is reduced (including by deduction, entitlement to refund, credit or otherwise, whether available in the current taxable year, as an adjustment to taxable income in any other taxable year or as a carryforward or carryback, as applicable) plus any interest from such government or jurisdiction relating to such Tax liability, and in the case of a consolidated federal Income Tax Return or combined, unitary or other similar state, local or other Income Tax Return, the sum of the amount by which the Tax liability of the affiliated group (within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code) or other relevant group of corporations to the appropriate government or jurisdiction is reduced (including by deduction, entitlement to
 
refund, credit or otherwise, whether available in the current taxable year, as an adjustment to taxable income in any other taxable year or as a carryforward or carryback, as applicable) plus any interest from such government or jurisdiction relating to such Tax liability.
"Tax Contest" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.01.
"Tax Return" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
"Taxing Authority" shall have the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
"Transaction Expenses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.06(a).
"USF Payments" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.04(a).
"USF Tax Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.04(a).
"Valor" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals
"Valor Group" shall mean Valor and all entities that are Subsidiaries of Valor immediately following the Merger.
"Windstream Corporation" shall mean the corporation surviving the Merger.
     2.01 OBLIGATIONS TO FILE TAX RETURNS.
          (a) AT Co. shall file or cause to be filed any Income Tax Return that is required to be filed after the Distribution Date by or with respect to any member of the Spinco Group that (i) is filed on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis, (ii) includes both one or more members of the AT Co. Group and one or more members of the Spinco Group, and (iii) is for a taxable period that includes a Pre-Distribution Period (a "Combined Return"). Each member of the Spinco Group hereby irrevocably authorizes and designates AT Co. as its agent, coordinator and administrator for the purpose of taking any and all actions necessary or incidental to the filing of any such Combined Tax Return and, except as otherwise provided herein, for the purpose of making payments to, or collecting refunds from, any Taxing Authority in respect of a Combined Return. Except as otherwise provided herein, AT Co. shall have the exclusive right to file, prosecute, compromise or settle any claim for refund for Income Taxes in respect of a Combined Return for which AT Co. bears responsibility hereunder and to determine whether any refunds of such Income Taxes to which the AT Consolidated Group may be entitled shall be received by way of refund or credit against the Tax liability of the AT Consolidated Group.
 
          (b) Valor shall file or cause to be filed any other Income Tax Return required to be filed after the Distribution Date by or with respect to one or more members of the Spinco Group, including any such Tax Return (i) with respect to any taxable period that includes but does not end on the Distribution Date (a "Straddle Return"), (ii) with respect to a taxable period ending on the Distribution Date (a "Short Period Return"), and (iii) with respect to a taxable period beginning after the Distribution Date (a "Separate Return"). AT Co. shall remit to Valor in immediately available funds the amount of any Income Taxes (including estimated Income Taxes) related to a Straddle Return or Short Period Return for which AT Co. is responsible hereunder, at least two Business Days before payment of the relevant amount is due to a Taxing Authority. Valor shall file or cause to be filed any Other Tax Return required to be filed after the Distribution Date by one or more members of the Spinco Group.
     2.02 APPROVAL OF STRADDLE RETURNS AND SHORT PERIOD RETURNS. No later than thirty (30) days prior to the date on which any Straddle Return or Short Period Return is required to be filed (taking into account any valid extensions) (the "Due Date"), Valor shall submit or cause to be submitted to AT Co. the Straddle Return or Short Period Return and shall make or cause to be made any and all changes to such return reasonably requested by AT Co., to the extent that such changes relate to items for which AT Co. has responsibility hereunder (and for which at least substantial authority exists within the meaning of Section 6662 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder). Valor shall not file or allow to be filed any such Straddle Return or Short Period Return prior to receiving written approval of the return from AT Co., which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned.
     2.03 OBLIGATION TO REMIT TAXES. Subject to Section 2.01 and subject always to the ultimate division of responsibility for Taxes set out in Section 2.04, AT Co. and Valor shall each remit or cause to be remitted to the applicable Taxing Authority any Taxes due in respect of any Tax Return that such party is required to file (or, in the case of a Tax for which no Tax Return is required to be filed, which is otherwise payable by such party or a member of such party's group (the AT Co. Group or the Spinco Group) to any Taxing Authority) and shall be entitled to reimbursement for such payments to the extent provided herein or in the Merger Agreement.
     2.04 TAX SHARING OBLIGATIONS AND PRIOR AGREEMENTS.
     (a) From and after the Merger, Valor shall be liable for and shall indemnify and hold the AT Co. Group harmless against (i) any net liability for Income Taxes of a member of the Spinco Group (and Valor and the Spinco Group shall be entitled to receive and retain any net refund of Income Taxes or other net Tax Benefit) attributable to the treatment of payments received from a federal or state universal services fund ("USF Payments") in respect of the Spinco Business for the period from January 1, 1997, to the Distribution Date, taking into account (x) any refund of Income Taxes with respect to USF Payments previously not treated as contributions to capital within the meaning of Section 118(a) of the Code, (y) cost recovery deductions arising from property acquired with USF Payments and (z) Income Taxes payable as a result of a failure of a USF Payment to be treated as a
 
contribution to capital within the meaning of Section 118(a) of the Code, in each case with respect to such period (a "USF Tax Amount"), (ii) any Other Taxes arising in the Pre-Distribution Period and attributable to a member of the Spinco Group or to the employees, assets or transactions of the Spinco Business, except for Other Taxes arising in respect of the Contribution (including the Preliminary Restructuring) or the Distribution and (iii) any liability for Taxes arising in the Post-Distribution Period and attributable to a member of the Spinco Group or to the assets, employees, or transactions of the Spinco Business. Except with respect to indemnification pursuant to clause (i), all indemnification pursuant to this Section 2.04(a) shall be on a net after-Tax basis.
     (b) Except for Taxes specifically allocated to Valor under this Agreement or for which Valor has indemnified AT Co. pursuant to the Merger Agreement, AT Co. shall be liable for and shall indemnify and hold Valor and its Subsidiaries and the Spinco Group harmless against, on a net after-Tax basis, any Tax liability (i) of the AT Co. Group or any AT Consolidated Group or any member thereof or attributable to the employees, assets or transactions of the AT Co. Business or (ii) of the Spinco Group or any member thereof, including Taxes arising from any Distribution Disqualification other than Taxes for which Valor is responsible pursuant to Article X of the Merger Agreement.
     (c) Except as set forth in this Agreement and in consideration of the mutual indemnities and other obligations of this Agreement, any and all prior Tax sharing or allocation agreements or practices between any member of the AT Co. Group and any member of the Spinco Group (including the ALLTEL Corporation and Subsidiaries Tax Sharing Policy in effect for taxable years ending on or after December 31, 1991) shall be terminated with respect to the Spinco Group as of the Distribution Date, and no member of the Spinco Group shall have any continuing rights or obligations thereunder.
     (d) Valor shall be entitled to any refund of or credit for Taxes for which Valor is responsible under this Agreement, and AT Co. shall be entitled to any refund of or credit for Taxes for which AT Co. is responsible under this Agreement. Refunds for any Straddle Period shall be equitably apportioned between the AT Co. Group and the Spinco Group in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement governing such periods. A party receiving a refund to which another party is entitled pursuant to this Agreement shall pay the amount to which such other party is entitled within five days after the receipt of the refund.
     2.06 PERIOD THAT INCLUDES THE DISTRIBUTION DATE.
     (a) To the extent permitted by law or administrative practice, the taxable year of each member of the Spinco Group with respect to any Tax shall be treated as closing at the close of the Distribution Date.
     (b) If it is necessary for purposes of this Agreement to determine the Tax liability of any member of the Spinco Group for a taxable year or period that begins on or before and ends after the Distribution Date and that is not treated under Section 2.05(a) as closing at the close of the Distribution Date, the determination shall be made, in the case of Taxes
 
that are based upon income or receipts, by assuming that the relevant taxable period ended at the close of the Distribution Date, except that any exemptions, allowances or deductions that are calculated on an annual basis shall be apportioned on a time basis. In the case of Taxes that are imposed on a periodic basis, are payable for a taxable period that includes (but does not end on) the Distribution Date, and are not based upon or related to income or receipts, the portion of such Tax that relates to the Pre-Distribution Period shall be deemed to be the amount of such Tax for the entire taxable period multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days in the taxable period ending on the Distribution Date and the denominator of which is the number of days in the entire taxable period.
     (c) For the avoidance of doubt, Taxes allocated to the Pre-Distribution Period shall include (i) any Tax resulting from the departure of any corporation from any AT Consolidated Group (resulting from the triggering into income of deferred intercompany transactions under Section 1.1502-13 of the Treasury Regulations or excess loss accounts under Section 1.1502-19 of the Treasury Regulations or otherwise) other than any such Tax that would not have arisen in the absence of a Disqualifying Action, and (ii) any Tax related to items of income or gain arising with respect to any interest in an entity treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes, held by a member of the Spinco Group in the Pre-Distribution Period, in accordance with the principles of Section 1.1502-76(b)(2)(vi) of the Treasury Regulations.
     3.01 CARRYBACKS. Without the consent of AT Co., no member of the Spinco Group shall carry back any Tax Attribute (unless required to carry back such Tax Attribute by law) from a Post-Distribution Period to a Pre-Distribution Period. Provided that AT Co. consents to the carryback or if the carryback is required by law, AT Co. (or any other member of the AT Co. Group receiving such refund) shall promptly remit to Valor any Tax Benefit it realizes with respect to any such carryback.
     3.02 AMENDED RETURNS. Valor shall not, and shall not permit any member of the Spinco Group to, file any amended Income Tax Return of a member of the Spinco Group or a Tax Return with respect to Other Taxes of a member of the Spinco Group that is filed on a combined basis with a member of the AT Co. Group, in each case with respect to a Pre-Distribution Period, without first obtaining the consent of AT Co., which shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned.
     3.03 TIMING ADJUSTMENTS.
          (a) If an audit or other examination by any Taxing Authority with respect to any Income Tax Return shall result (by settlement or otherwise) in any adjustment that (A) decreases deductions, losses or Tax credits or increases income, gains or recapture of Tax credits of a member of the AT Consolidated Group for a Pre-Distribution Period in respect
 
of an item for which AT Co. is responsible hereunder and (B) will permit the Spinco Group to increase deductions, losses or tax credits or decrease income, gains or recapture of tax credits that would otherwise (but for such adjustment) have been taken or reported with respect to the Spinco Group for one or more Post-Distribution Periods, Valor shall, and shall cause the Spinco Group to, pay to AT Co. the amounts of any Tax Benefits that result therefrom within ten (10) days of the date on which such Tax Benefits are realized, provided, however, that this Section 3.02(a) shall not apply to any such adjustment relating to the subject matter of 2.04(a)(i) and the last sentence of Section 4.01.
          (b) If an audit or other examination by any Taxing Authority with respect to any Income Tax Return shall result (by settlement or otherwise) in any adjustment that (A) decreases deductions, losses or Tax credits or increases income, gains or recapture of Tax credits of a member of the Valor Group for a Post-Distribution Period and (B) will permit any member of the AT Co. Group or any AT Consolidated Group to increase deductions, losses or tax credits or decrease income, gains or recapture of tax credits in respect of an item for which AT Co. would be responsible hereunder, AT Co. shall, and shall cause the AT Co. Group to, pay to Valor the amounts of any Tax Benefits that result therefrom within ten (10) days of the date on which such Tax Benefits are realized.
          (c) The party in control of the audit or other examination to which any such adjustment described in 3.02(a) or (b) above relates shall notify the other party and provide it with adequate information so that it may reflect such adjustment on its applicable Tax Returns.
     3.04. TAX BENEFIT REALIZED. For purposes of this Agreement, a Tax Benefit shall be deemed to have been realized at the time any refund of Taxes is received or applied against other Taxes due, or at the time of filing of a Tax Return (including any relating to estimated Taxes) on which a loss, deduction or credit is applied in reduction of Taxes which would otherwise be payable; , , that, where a party has other losses, deductions, credits or similar items available to it, deductions, credits or items for which the other party would be entitled to a payment under this Agreement shall be treated as the last items utilized to produce a Tax Benefit.
provided
however
     3.05 DEDUCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO RESTRICTED STOCK ISSUED PRIOR TO THE DISTRIBUTION DATE.
     (a) All deductions for United States federal, state and local income Tax purposes resulting from the vesting of shares of restricted stock of AT Co. issued prior to the Distribution Date and the related shares of Windstream Corporation received with respect to such AT Co. shares shall be taken by AT Co. or a member of the AT Co. Group, and no party to this Agreement shall take any position on any Tax Return which is inconsistent with such treatment, unless required to do so pursuant to a Final Determination to such effect.
     (b) If, by reason of a subsequent Final Determination as to the treatment of any tax deductions related to the AT Co. restricted stock or Windstream Corporation restricted
 
stock referred to in Section 3.05(a) above, the taxing authorities determine that Valor is entitled to such deduction, then Valor shall, and shall cause the Spinco Group to, pay to AT Co. the amount of any Tax Benefits that result therefrom within ten (10) days of the date on which such Tax Benefits are realized.
     3.06 DEDUCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO TRANSACTION EXPENSES
     (a) Pursuant to Section 12.2 of the Distribution Agreement, the costs and expenses incurred by AT Co. or Spinco or their respective Subsidiaries and described in that Section ("Transaction Expenses") are to be paid (borne economically) by (i) Spinco, in an amount up to $45.948 million ("Spinco Transaction Expenses"), and (ii) thereafter, by AT Co. ("AT Excess Expenses").
     (b) As soon as is reasonably practicable after the Closing Date, AT Co. and Valor shall determine (i) those Transaction Expenses that are to be reported as items of the AT Co. Group for Tax purposes ("AT Tax Expenses") and (ii) those Transaction Expenses that are to be reported as items of the Spinco Group for Tax purposes ("Spinco Tax Expenses"). In making that determination, the following principles shall apply  (i) the costs and expenses incurred in connection with (A) the Spinco Credit Agreement and (B) the $800 million in principal amount of Senior Notes due 2013 issued by Windstream Corporation (collectively, "Spinco Credit/Note Expenses"), including the aggregate fees, expenses and underwriting discount related thereto, shall be treated as Spinco Tax Expenses; (ii) the portion of the advisory fees ("Advisory Fees") payable pursuant to those certain Letter Agreements, dated December 7 and 8, 2005, among Stephens, Inc., JP Morgan Securities, Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc., Alltel Corporation and ALLTEL Holding Corp. ("Investment Banking Letter Agreements") that relates to the Merger ("Merger Advisory Fees"), which portion the parties agree is $9.375 million, shall be treated as Spinco Tax Expenses; (iii) the remaining portion of the Advisory Fees, which relate to the Contribution and the Distribution and which portion the parties agree is $28.125 million ("Contribution/Distribution Advisory Fees"), shall be treated as AT Tax Expenses; (iv) the costs and expenses ("Exchange Note Expenses") incurred in connection with the $1.746 billion in principal amount of Notes due 2016 issued by Spinco ("Exchange Notes"), other than the implicit underwriting commission arising on the transfer by AT Co. of the Exchange Notes in exchange for certain outstanding indebtedness of AT Co. (which shall be treated as an AT Tax Expense), shall be treated as Spinco Tax Expenses; (v) other fees and expenses related to the Merger shall be treated as Spinco Tax Expenses; (vi) other fees and expenses related to the Contribution and the Distribution shall be treated as AT Tax Expenses; and (vii) costs and expenses not provided for in clauses (i) through (vi) shall be allocated between AT Co. and Spinco for Tax purposes in such reasonable manner as the parties may agree. No party shall take a position on any Tax Return that is inconsistent with the allocations provided for in this paragraph (b), unless required to do so by a Final Determination to such effect.
     (c) If, as an original matter or by reason of a subsequent Final Determination as to the treatment of a Transaction Expense as an AT Tax Expense or a Spinco Tax Expense, a Spinco Tax Expense is borne economically by AT Co. (that is, if a Spinco Tax Expense is
 
treated as an AT Excess Expense), then, in accordance with Section 3.04 of this Agreement and without duplication of the other adjustments required under this Agreement, Valor shall, and shall cause the Spinco Group to, pay to AT Co. the amount of any Tax Benefits that result therefrom within ten (10) days of the date on which such Tax Benefits are realized. For this purpose, the following ordering conventions shall apply  (i) Spinco Transaction Expenses shall be deemed to consist (A) first, of Spinco Credit/Note Expenses, to the full extent thereof, (B) second, of Exchange Note Expenses, to the full extent thereof, (C) third, of Merger Advisory Fees, to the full extent thereof, (D) fourth, of other fees and expenses related to the Merger described in paragraph (b)(v) and (E) fifth, of other Spinco Tax Expenses described in paragraph (b)(vii).
     (d) The principles of paragraph (c) shall apply, if an AT Tax Expense is borne economically by Spinco (that is, if an AT Tax Expense is treated as a Spinco Transaction Expense).
mutatis mutandis,
     4.01 PAYMENTS. Except as provided in Section 2.01 and Section 3.03, payments due under this Agreement shall be made no later than thirty (30) days after the receipt or crediting of a refund, the realization of a Tax Benefit for which the other party is entitled to reimbursement, the delivery of notice of payment of a Tax for which the other party is responsible under this Agreement, or the delivery of notice of a Final Determination which results in such other party becoming obligated to make a payment hereunder to the other party hereto. Payments due hereunder, but not made within such 30-day period, shall be accompanied with interest at a rate equal to the Applicable Federal Rate from the due date of such payment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of any payment required to be made to AT Co. by Valor as the result of a Final Determination with respect to a USF Amount, such USF Amount may be paid in ten (10) equal, annual installments, commencing on a date which is not less than thirty (30) days after the date of such Final Determination, and on each of the nine succeeding anniversaries of such date.
     4.02 NOTICE. AT Co. and Valor shall give each other prompt written notice of any payment that may be due to the provider of such notice under this Agreement.
     5.01 NOTICE. Valor shall promptly notify AT Co. in writing upon receipt by Valor or any member of the Valor Group of a written communication from any Taxing Authority with respect to any pending or threatened audit, dispute, suit, action, proposed assessment or other proceeding (a "Tax Contest") concerning any Combined Return, Straddle Return or Short Period Return or otherwise concerning Taxes for which AT Co. may be liable under this Agreement. AT Co. shall promptly notify Valor in writing upon
 
receipt by AT Co. or any member of the AT Co. Group of a written communication from any Taxing Authority with respect to any Tax Contest concerning any Separate Return or otherwise concerning Taxes for which Valor may be liable under this Agreement.
     5.02 CONTROL OF CONTESTS BY AT. CO. Except as provided in Section 5.03, AT Co. shall have sole control of any Tax Contest of a member of the Spinco Group related to any Combined Return, Straddle Return or Short Period Return, including the exclusive right to communicate with agents of the Taxing Authority and to control, resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest, provided, however, that (i) AT Co. shall provide Valor an opportunity to review and comment upon AT Co.'s communications with such Taxing Authorities to the extent such communications relate to Spinco or any member of the Spinco Group, (ii) AT Co. shall act in good faith in connection with its control of such Tax Contest and (iii) in the case of any such Tax Contest that relates to Income Taxes for which Valor has responsibility hereunder, Valor may participate in the Tax Contest at its own expense, and AT Co. shall not settle or concede any such Tax Contest without the prior written consent of Valor, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned.
     5.03 CONTROL OF CONTESTS BY VALOR. Valor shall have sole control of any Tax Contest related to any Separate Return and any Tax Contest relating to Other Taxes for which Valor is responsible hereunder, including the exclusive right to control, resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Contest.
     6.01 GENERAL. AT Co. and Valor shall cooperate with each other in the filing of any Tax Returns and the conduct of any audit or other proceeding and each shall execute and deliver such powers of attorney and make available such other documents as are reasonably necessary to carry out the intent of this Agreement. Each party agrees to notify the other party in writing of any audit adjustments which do not result in Tax liability but can be reasonably expected to affect Tax Returns of the other party, or any of its Subsidiaries, for a Post-Distribution Period.
     6.02 CONSISTENT TREATMENT.
     (a) Unless and until there has been a Final Determination to the contrary, each party agrees to treat the Contribution, together with the Debt Exchange, as a reorganization qualifying under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, the Distribution as a transaction qualifying under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code and the Merger as a reorganization qualifying under Section 368(a) of the Code, pursuant to which no gain or loss is recognized by any of AT Co., Spinco, Valor and their respective shareholders (except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares).
 
     (b) Unless and until there has been a Final Determination to the contrary or unless there is not at least substantial authority for a particular position within the meaning of Section 6662 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, Valor shall file or cause to be filed all Tax Returns of a member of the Spinco Group or relating to the Spinco Business and shall conduct any Tax Contests in respect of a member of the Spinco Group or the Spinco Business in a manner consistent with AT Co.'s determination of the adjusted Tax basis of any asset and the amount of any Tax Attribute or any similar item held by the Spinco Group at the time of the Distribution, and, without the consent of AT Co., in the case of a past practice of the AT Co. Consolidated Group that is subject to a Tax Contest at the time of the Distribution, Valor shall not permit any of the Spinco Subsidiaries to take any position on any Tax Return, in any Tax Contest or otherwise that is inconsistent with such past practice. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section shall not apply to reporting under GAAP.
The AT Co. Group and the Valor Group shall (a) in accordance with their then current record retention policy, retain records, documents, accounting data and other information (including computer data) necessary for the preparation and filing of all Tax Returns in respect of Taxes of any member of either the AT Co. Group or the Spinco Group for any Pre-Distribution Period or any Post-Distribution Period or for the audit of such Tax Returns; and (b) give to the other reasonable access to such records, documents, accounting data and other information (including computer data) and to its personnel (insuring their cooperation) and premises, for the purpose of the review or audit of such Tax Returns to the extent relevant to an obligation or liability of a party under this Agreement or for purposes of the preparation or filing of any such Tax Return, the conduct of any Tax Contest or any other matter reasonably and in good faith related to the Tax affairs of the requesting party. At any time after the Distribution Date that the Valor Group proposes to destroy such material or information, it shall first notify the AT Co. Group in writing and the AT Co. Group shall be entitled to receive such materials or information proposed to be destroyed. At any time after the Distribution Date that the AT Co. Group proposes to destroy such material or information, it shall first notify the Valor Group in writing and the Valor Group shall be entitled to receive such materials or information proposed to be destroyed.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, any liabilities determined under this Agreement shall not terminate any earlier than the expiration of the applicable statute of limitation for such liability. All other covenants under this Agreement shall survive indefinitely.
 
AT Co. and Valor shall attempt in good faith to resolve any disagreement arising with respect to this Agreement, including, but not limited to, any dispute in connection with a claim by a third party (a "Dispute"). Either party may give the other party written notice of any Dispute not resolved in the normal course of business. If the parties cannot agree by the tenth Business Day following the date on which one party gives such notice (the "Dispute Date"), then the Dispute shall be determined as follows: Within 20 days of the Dispute Date, AT Co. and Valor shall each appoint one arbitrator. The two arbitrators so appointed shall appoint a third arbitrator within 30 days of the Dispute Date. If either party shall fail to appoint an arbitrator within such 20-day period, the arbitration shall be conducted by the sole arbitrator appointed by the other party. Whether selected by AT Co., Valor or otherwise, each arbitrator selected to resolve such dispute shall be a tax lawyer who is generally recognized in the tax community as a qualified and competent tax practitioner with experience in the tax area involved. Such arbitrators shall be empowered to resolve the Dispute, including by engaging nationally recognized accounting and other experts. Each of AT Co. and Valor shall bear 50% of the aggregate expenses of the arbitrators (or the sole arbitrator). The decision of the arbitrators shall be rendered no later than 90 days from the Dispute Date and shall be final.
     None of the provisions of this Agreement are intended to supersede any provision in Article X of the Merger Agreement. In the event of any conflict between this Agreement and Article X of the Merger Agreement, Article X of the Merger Agreement shall control.
To the extent not inconsistent with any specific term of this Agreement, the following sections of the Distribution Agreement shall apply in relevant part to this Agreement: 12.3 (Governing Law), 12.4 (Notice), 12.5 (Amendment and Modification), 12.6 (Successors and Assigns; No Third-Party Beneficiaries), 12.7 (Counterparts), 12.8 (Interpretation), 12.9 (Severability), 12.10 (References; Construction), and 12.11 (Terminability).
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

 
Exhibit 10.4
     THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO SECURITYHOLDERS AGREEMENT (this "") is made and entered into as of July 17, 2006 by and among Windstream Corporation (f.k.a. Valor Communications Group, Inc.) (the "") and the Investors signatory hereto.
Amendment
Company
     WHEREAS, the Company and the Investors entered into that certain Securityholders Agreement (the ""), dated as of February 14, 2005;
Securityholders Agreement
     WHEREAS, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 8, 2005, by and among Alltel Corporation, Alltel Holding Corp. ("") and the Company (the ""), pursuant to which Spinco will merge with and into the Company upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement (the ""); and
Spinco
Merger Agreement
Merger
     WHEREAS, as a condition to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Company and certain Investors agreed to amend the terms of the Securityholders Agreement as set forth herein.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto do hereby agree:
 
"4. ;
Shelf Registration; Underwritten Offerings
(a) .
Shelf Registration
(i) . As soon as practicable after the consummation of the Merger, the Company shall, at its cost, prepare and file and use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be declared effective a shelf registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 of the Securities Act (the "") covering all of the Registrable Securities held by the Investors. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the provisions of Section 7 hereof to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for resales of the Registrable Securities by the holders thereof entitled to benefit
Filing of Shelf Registration Statement
Shelf Registration Statement
 
from this Section 4(a), and to ensure that it conforms to the requirements of this Agreement, the Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a continuous period until the earlier to occur of (i) the second anniversary of the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement (extended as may be necessary to compensate for any periods during which sales of Registrable Securities are suspended under the Shelf Registration Statement as provided in this Agreement) or (ii) the date on which each of the Welsh Investors and the Vestar Investors may sell all of their respective Registrable Securities without regard to volume limitation pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act.
(ii) . The Company may suspend sales under the Shelf Registration Statement if the Company determines in its good faith judgment after consultation with its securities counsel that the filing of an amendment or supplement to the Shelf Registration Statement is necessary in order to effect resales pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement and such filing would require disclosure of material non-public information which the Company has a business purpose for preserving as confidential and the Company provides the Investors written notice (the "") thereof promptly after the Company makes such determination, the Company may suspend resales of Registrable Securities under the Shelf Registration Statement for up to 75 days. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to suspensions of resales of Registrable Securities under the Shelf Registration Statement described above (x) the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be terminated as soon as it is practicable, any such period under which sales of Registrable Securities are suspended under the Shelf Registration Statement and (y) the Company shall not deliver more than one Information Delay Notice within any period of 180 consecutive days.
Suspension of the Shelf Registration Statement
bona fide
Information Delay Notice
(iii) . Not more than four (4) business days nor less than two (2) business days prior to effecting any sale of Registrable Securities under the Shelf Registration Statement representing in excess of 0.25% of the Company's then outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis, the Welsh Investors shall provide written notice to the Company of their intention to effect such sale.
Notice Requirement
(b) .
Underwritten Offering
(i) . At any time after the 90 day following the consummation of the Merger, the holders of at least 50% of the outstanding Registrable Securities initially held by the Welsh Investors, the Vestar Investors and their respective affiliates (the "") may request the Company effect an underwritten offering under the Shelf Registration Statement of all or any portion of the Registrable Securities held by the Requesting Party (an ""). The Requesting Party shall be entitled to request up to one (1) Underwritten Offering pursuant to this Section
Request for Underwritten Offering
th
Requesting Party
Underwritten Offering
 
4(b); that the Company's obligation with respect to any such Underwritten Offering shall be deemed satisfied only when 75% of the Registrable Securities of the Requesting Party specified in such notice and of any other party that has requested pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii) below that its Registrable Securities be included in such Underwritten Offering shall have been sold pursuant thereto.
provided
(ii) . Promptly following receipt of any notice under this Section 4 from any Requesting Party, the Company shall immediately notify the other Investors and shall use its reasonable best efforts to include in such Underwritten Offering the number of Registrable Securities specified in any notice received from such requesting Investors (and in any notices received from such Investors within 20 days after notice from the Company), in each case subject to Section 4(c) below.
Participation by Other Investors in an Underwritten Offering; Procedure
(iii) . The Board may designate the managing underwriter of an offering pursuant to this Section 4(b), such underwriter to be reasonably acceptable to the Majority Sellers.
Designation of Managing Underwriter
(c) .
Certain Restrictions
(i) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4 to the contrary, the only securities that the Company shall be required to register pursuant to this Section 4 shall be Registrable Securities.
(ii) If, upon receipt of a request pursuant to Section 4(b), the Company is advised in writing by a nationally recognized investment banking firm in the United States selected by the Company that, in such firm's opinion, an Underwritten Offering by the Company at the time and on the terms requested would adversely affect any public offering of securities of the Company (other than in connection with employee benefit and similar plans) (a "") with respect to which the Company has commenced preparations for a registration prior to the receipt of a registration request pursuant to Section 4(b) and the Company furnishes the Investors with a certificate signed by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer of the Company to such effect (the "" and, together with any Information Delay Notice, a "") promptly after such request, the Company shall not be required to effect a registration pursuant to Section 4(b) until the earliest of (i) 30 days after the completion of such Company Offering, (ii) promptly after the abandonment of such Company Offering or (iii) 120 days after the date of the Transaction Delay Notice; that in any event the Company shall not be required to effect any Underwritten Offering prior to the termination, waiver or reduction of any "blackout period" required by the underwriters to be applicable to the Investors in connection with any Company Offering; and that in no event shall the Company delay such Underwritten Offering for more than 180 days.
Company Offering
Transaction Delay Notice
Delay Notice
provided
provided
further
 
(iii) If upon receipt of a request pursuant to Section 4(b) or while a request pursuant to Section 4(b) is pending, the Company delivers an Information Delay Notice to the Investors, the Company shall not be required to comply with its obligations under Section 4(b) until the earlier of (i) the date upon which such material information is disclosed to the public or ceases to be material or (ii) 75 days after the Investors' receipt of such notice.
(iv) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4(c), the Company shall be entitled to serve only one Delay Notice within any period of 180 consecutive days."
 
"If and whenever the Company is required to effect or cause the registration of any Registrable Securities or an Underwritten Offering of such securities under the Securities Act as provided in this Agreement, the Company will, as expeditiously as possible:"
"(a) use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the Commission a registration statement or prospectus on any form for which the Company then qualifies or which counsel for the Company shall deem appropriate, and which form shall be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities in accordance with the intended methods of distribution thereof, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to become and remain effective as
 
promptly as practicable; that before filing with the Commission a registration statement or any amendments or supplements thereto, the Company will (i) furnish to the selling Investors copies of the form of prospectus (including the preliminary prospectus) proposed to be filed and furnish to counsel for the selling Investors copies of all such documents proposed to be filed, which documents will be subject to the review of such counsel and, in the case of any registration hereunder other than an incidental registration pursuant to Section 5, shall not be filed without the approval of such counsel (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) and (ii) notify the selling Investors of any stop order issued or threatened by the Commission and take all reasonable actions required to prevent the entry of such stop order or to remove it if entered."
provided
 
"(q) . This Agreement, including the Company's obligation to maintain the Shelf Registration Statement and all rights of holders thereunder, shall terminate effective upon the earlier to occur of the (A) second anniversary of the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement (extended as may be necessary to compensate for any periods during which sales of Registrable Securities are suspended under the Shelf Registration Statement as provided in this Agreement) or (B) the date on which all Registrable Securities can be sold without regard to volume limitations or manner of sale restrictions pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act."
Term
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Amendment as of the day and year first written above.
 
 
 

Table of Contents
Exhibit 10.5
EXECUTION COPY
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
:
SCHEDULES
Schedule 1.01-A  Additional Facility Obligations Schedule 1.01-B  Existing Letters of Credit Schedule 2.01  Commitments Schedule 3.05  Real Properties Schedule 3.06  Disclosed Matters Schedule 3.12  Subsidiaries Schedule 3.13  Insurance
Table of Contents
Schedule 5.10  Certain Regulated Subsidiaries Schedule 6.01  Existing Indebtedness Schedule 6.02  Existing Liens Schedule 6.04  Existing Investments Schedule 6.06  Sale and Leaseback Transactions Schedule 6.09  Transactions with Affiliates Schedule 6.10  Existing Restrictions
:
EXHIBITS
Exhibit A     Form of Assignment and Assumption Exhibit B-1  Form of Opinion of John P. Fletcher, Esq., General Counsel of the Borrower Exhibit B-2  Form of Opinion of William Ojile, Esq., General Counsel of Valor Exhibit B-3  Form of Opinion of Kirkland & Ellis LLP, special counsel for the Loan Parties Exhibit B-4  Form of Opinion of Wilkinson Barker Knauer, LLP, special regulatory counsel for the Loan Parties Exhibit C     Form of Guarantee Agreement Exhibit D     Form of Security Agreement
Table of Contents
     CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of July 17, 2006, among ALLTEL HOLDING CORP., the LENDERS party hereto and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent, MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED, as Syndication Agent, and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., CITIBANK, N.A. and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Co-Documentation Agents.
     The parties hereto agree as follows:
     As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Section 1.01. Defined Terms.
     "" means Windstream Corporation's 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, attached as Annex G to the Registration Statement.
2006 Equity Incentive Plan
     "" means the 8/% senior unsecured notes due 2016 of the Borrower issued to Alltel on or prior to the Effective Date in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1,746,000,000.
2016 Notes
5
8
     "" means the 8/% senior unsecured notes due 2013 of the Borrower issued under Rule 144A under the Securities Act on or prior to the Effective Date in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $800,000,000.
2013 Notes
1
8
     "", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
     "" means Alltel Communications Holdings of the Midwest, Inc., a Nebraska corporation (formerly known as Aliant Communications Inc.).
AC Holdings
     "" means the 6/% Notes due 2028 issued by AC Holdings in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $100,000,000.
AC Holdings Bonds
3
4
     "" means the Indenture dated as of February 23, 1998 under which the AC Holdings Bonds were issued.
AC Holdings Indenture
     "" means any purchase or acquisition by any Wireline Company in a single transaction or a series of transactions individually or, together with its Affiliates, of (a) any Equity Interests in another Person which are sufficient to permit such Wireline Company and its Affiliates to Control such other Person or (b) all or substantially all of the assets of, or assets comprising a division, unit or line of business of, another Person, whether or not involving a
Acquisition
Table of Contents
merger or consolidation with such other Person. "" has a meaning correlative thereto.
Acquire
     "" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
     "" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, and its permitted successors in such capacity as provided in Article 8.
Administrative Agent
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
     "" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
     "" means the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Syndication Agent, the Co-Documentation Agents and the Lead Arrangers.
Agents
     "" means Alltel Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
Alltel
     "" means Alltel Georgia Communications Corp., a Georgia corporation.
Alltel Georgia
     "" means the 6/% Debentures due 2013 issued by Alltel Georgia in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $80,000,000.
Alltel Georgia Bonds
1
2
     "" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus / of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
Alternate Base Rate
1
2
     "" means, for any day, (a) with respect to any Revolving Loan, Tranche A Term Loan or Tranche C Term Loan, (i) 0.25% per annum in the case of an ABR Loan and (ii) 1.25% per annum in the case of a Eurodollar Loan, and (b) with respect to any Tranche B Term Loan, (i) 0.75% per annum in the case of an ABR Loan and (ii) 1.75% per annum in the case of a Eurodollar Loan; and (c) with respect to any Incremental Loan, the rate specified in the Incremental Facility Amendment.
Applicable Rate
Table of Contents
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04.
Approved Fund
     "" means (a) any sale, lease, transfer or other disposition (including pursuant to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction) of any assets of any Wireline Company pursuant to Section 6.05(b)(ii), (h), (k) or (m), (b) the issuance by any Subsidiary of any Equity Interest, or (c) the receipt by any Subsidiary of any capital contribution, other than (x) any such issuance of an Equity Interest to, or the receipt of any such capital contribution from, another Wireline Company and (y) directors' qualifying shares and shares issued to foreign nationals to the extent required by applicable law; that any single transaction or series of related transactions that involves assets or Equity Interests having a Fair Market Value of less than $25,000,000 shall not be deemed to be an Asset Disposition.
Asset Disposition
provided
     "" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
     "" means the AC Holdings Bonds, the Alltel Georgia Bonds and the Assumed Valor Bonds.
Assumed Bonds
     "" means the Valor Bonds, other than, after the Change of Control Payment Date (as defined in, and determined pursuant to, the Valor Indenture), any Tendered Valor Bonds (whether or not repurchased pursuant to the Valor Indenture).
Assumed Valor Bonds
     "" in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended. Such present value will be calculated using a discount rate equal to the rate of interest implicit in such transaction, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Attributable Debt
     "" means, on any date of determination, an amount (which may be a negative amount) equal to the sum of the following in respect of the Wireline Companies on a consolidated basis for the period commencing on the first day of the first Fiscal Quarter commencing after the Effective Date and ending on the last day of the most recent Fiscal Quarter for which a certificate shall have been delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 5.01(c) (and which the Administrative Agent shall have had an opportunity to review for not less than five Business Days):
Available Cash
     (a) Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for such period;
plus
Table of Contents
     (b) to the extent not included in calculating such Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, any extraordinary or non-recurring cash gain during such period, other than any such gain resulting from any sale, transfer or other disposition of assets;
minus
     (c) without duplication and to the extent included in determining such Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, the sum of (i) Consolidated Cash Interest Expense for such period, except to the extent constituting Restricted Payments; (ii) all taxes of the Wireline Companies paid in cash during such period; and (iii) any extraordinary or nonrecurring loss, expense or charge paid in cash during such period; that amounts shall be included in this clause (c) for any period only to the extent not duplicative of any cost or expense which was (x) included in determining Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for such period and (y) not been added back to such Consolidated Adjusted Net Income in determining Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for such period.
provided
     "" means, on any date of determination, an amount (which may be a negative amount) equal to the sum of:
Available Distributable Cash
     (a) Available Cash as of such date of determination;
minus
     (b) without duplication, the sum of the following amounts, in each case for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on such date of determination:
     (i) the aggregate amount of Restricted Payments made by the Wireline Companies during such period, other than any such Restricted Payments (A) made to another Wireline Company, (B) paid from Available Equity Proceeds, (C) made as a part of the Transactions, (D) permitted under clause (ii) or (ix) of Section 6.08(a) or (E) permitted under clause (x) of Section 6.08(a) to the extent not exceeding the amount of cash and Cash Equivalents owned by Valor immediately prior to, and by the Borrower immediately after giving effect to, the Merger;
     (ii) the aggregate amount of Investments, determined net (without duplication of any other netting) of the aggregate amount of cash proceeds received by the Wireline Companies from any subsequent sale or repayment thereof, made by the Wireline Companies during such period, other than any such Investments (A) in connection with a Permitted Acquisition, but only to the extent funded with the proceeds of Permitted Additional Debt, (B) in connection with a Permitted Asset Exchange, but only to the extent the consideration paid by the Wireline Companies consists of assets or properties (other than cash) or cash consideration funded with the proceeds of Permitted Additional Debt, (C) in any Collateral Support Party (except, in the case of any Investment by a Loan
Table of Contents
Party in a Collateral Support Party that is not a Loan Party, to the extent that the distribution or repayment to such Loan Party of such Investment is not at the date of determination permitted without any prior governmental approval (that has not been obtained) or directly or indirectly, by operation of the terms of its charter or any agreement, instrument, judgment, decree, order, statute, rule or governmental regulation applicable to that Collateral Support Party or its equity holders), (D) funded from Available Equity Proceeds or (E) permitted under clause (a), (b), (g), (h), (j), (k), (l), (m), (n) (but only to the extent such Investment is reflected in and duplicative of all or a portion of a Permitted Acquisition), (o), (p) or (q) of Section 6.04);
     (iii) the aggregate amount of payments made by the Wireline Companies to repay, prepay, redeem, defease or acquire for value at or prior to stated maturity, or to refund, refinance or exchange, any Indebtedness (other than (A) Revolving Loans hereunder, (B) any of the Refinancings, or (C) any Indebtedness incurred pursuant to Section 6.01(a)(v) unless such Indebtedness is a Distribution Advance) or make any other scheduled, mandatory or voluntary payment of any such Indebtedness, other than any such payments funded from (1) Available Equity Proceeds, (2) the proceeds of Permitted Additional Debt or (3) the proceeds of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness; and
     (iv) the aggregate amount of Capital Expenditures made during such period, other than Capital Expenditures financed with (1) Available Equity Proceeds, (2) Reinvestment Funds or (3) the proceeds of a Debt Issuance (other than proceeds of Revolving Loans).
     "" means, on any date of determination, an amount equal to the sum of the following amounts, in each case for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on such date of determination:
Available Equity Proceeds
     (a) the aggregate amount of Net Proceeds of any Equity Issuances (excluding Equity Issuances of Disqualified Stock but including Equity Issuances pursuant to the conversion or exchange of Indebtedness or Disqualified Stock) during such period;
minus
     (b) the aggregate amount of such Net Proceeds of Equity Issuances which have been applied prior to such date of determination to fund any of the following payments, without duplication:
     (i) all or a portion of the consideration payable by the Wireline Companies in connection with a Permitted Acquisition;
     (ii) Capital Expenditures;
Table of Contents
     (iii) any other Investments, determined net (without duplication of any other netting) of the aggregate amount of cash proceeds received by the Wireline Companies from any subsequent sale or repayment thereof, made by the Wireline Companies (other than (A) Investments in any Collateral Support Party (except, in the case of any Investment by a Loan Party in a Collateral Support Party that is not a Loan Party, to the extent that the distribution or repayment to such Loan Party of such Investment is not at the date of determination permitted without any prior governmental approval (that has not been obtained) or directly or indirectly, by operation of the terms of its charter or any agreement, instrument, judgment, decree, order, statute, rule or governmental regulation applicable to that Collateral Support Party or its equity holders); and (B) Investments permitted under clause (b), (h), (j), (k), (o), (n) (but only to the extent such Investment is reflected in and duplicative of all or a portion of a Permitted Acquisition) or (q) of Section 6.04);
     (iv) Restricted Payments made by the Wireline Companies (other than Restricted Payments to any Wireline Company); that any such Restricted Payment by a Wireline Company to any other Person (other than another Wireline Company) which is made with the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous Restricted Payment from another Wireline Company shall be deemed to be a single Restricted Payment for these purposes; and
provided
     (v) any payments made by the Wireline Companies to repay, prepay, redeem, defease or acquire for value at or prior to stated maturity, or to refund, refinance or exchange any Indebtedness (other than (i) Revolving Loans hereunder or (ii) any Indebtedness incurred pursuant to Section 6.01(a)(v), unless such Indebtedness is a Distribution Advance) or make any other scheduled, mandatory or voluntary payment of any such Indebtedness.
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that in calculating the beneficial ownership of any particular "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), such "person" will be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such "person" has the right to acquire by conversion or exercise of other securities, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition. The terms "Beneficially Owns" and "Beneficially Owned" will have a corresponding meaning.
Beneficial Owner
     "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
Table of Contents
     "" means ALLTEL Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation, together with its successors (including Valor as the surviving entity of the Merger, to be renamed "Windstream Corporation").
Borrower
     "" means Loans of the same Class and Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
Borrowing
     "" means a request by the Borrower for a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
     "" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
Business Day
provided
Business Day
     "" means, for any period, (a) the additions to property, plant and equipment and other capital expenditures of the Wireline Companies that are (or should be) set forth in a consolidated statement of cash flows of the Wireline Companies for such period prepared in accordance with GAAP and (b) any Capital Lease Obligations incurred by the Wireline Companies during such period in connection with any such capital expenditures, but excluding (i) the Merger and Permitted Acquisitions, or (ii) the purchase price of equipment that is purchased substantially contemporaneously with the trade-in of existing equipment but only to the extent such purchase price does not exceed the credit granted by the seller of such equipment for the equipment being traded in at such time.
Capital Expenditures
     "" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 8 of the Security Agreement.
Cash Collateral Account
     "" means the consideration received by the Wireline Companies for any Asset Disposition that is in the form of cash, Cash Equivalents or Replacement Assets or a combination of the foregoing. For purposes of this provision, each of the following will be deemed to be cash:
Cash Consideration
Table of Contents
     (a) any liabilities (as shown on the Borrower's most recent balance sheet) of the Wireline Companies (other than contingent liabilities, Restricted Indebtedness and liabilities to the extent owed to any Wireline Company) that are assumed by the transferee of any such assets or Equity Interests pursuant to a written assignment and assumption agreement that releases the applicable Wireline Companies from further liability therefor;
     (b) any securities, notes or other obligations received by the Wireline Companies from such transferee that are converted by the Wireline Companies into Cash Equivalents or Replacement Assets within 180 days of the receipt thereof (to the extent of the Cash Equivalents or Replacement Assets received in that conversion); and
     (c) any Designated Noncash Consideration received by the Wireline Companies in such Asset Disposition having an aggregate Fair Market Value, taken together with all other Designated Noncash Consideration received pursuant to this clause (c) that is at that time outstanding, not to exceed the greater of (x) 1.5% of Total Assets at such time and (y) $100,000,000 (with the Fair Market Value of each item of Designated Noncash Consideration being measured at the time received and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value).
     "" means:
Cash Equivalents
     (a) dollars and foreign currency received in the ordinary course of business or exchanged into dollars within 180 days;
     (b) securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States government or any agency or instrumentality thereof (that the full faith and credit of the United States is pledged in support thereof), maturing, unless such securities are deposited to defease any Indebtedness, not more than one year from the date of acquisition;
provided
     (c) certificates of deposit and eurodollar time deposits with maturities of one year or less from the date of acquisition, bankers' acceptances with maturities not exceeding one year and overnight bank deposits, in each case, with any Lender Party or any domestic commercial bank having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000 and a rating at the time of acquisition thereof of P-1 or better from Moody's or A-1 or better from S&P;
     (d) repurchase obligations for underlying securities of the types described in clauses (b) and (c) above entered into with any financial institution meeting the qualifications specified in clause (c) above;
     (e) commercial paper issued by a corporation (other than an Affiliate of the Borrower) rated at least "A-2" or higher from Moody's or S&P and in each case maturing within one year after the date of acquisition;
Table of Contents
     (f) securities issued and fully guaranteed by any state, commonwealth or territory of the United States, or by any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof, rated at least "A" by Moody's or S&P and having maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition; and
     (g) money market funds at least 95% of the assets of which constitute Cash Equivalents of the kinds described in clauses (a) through (f) of this definition.
     "" means all agreements between the Borrower and any Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender (determined at the time such agreement is designated as a Cash Management Agreement pursuant to Section 20 of the Security Agreement) in respect of any overdraft and related liabilities arising from treasury, depository and cash management services or any automated clearing house transfers of funds.
Cash Management Agreements
     "" means any casualty or other insured damage to any property of any Wireline Company with a fair market value immediately prior to such event of at least $10,000,000, or any taking of any such property under power of eminent domain or by condemnation or similar proceeding, or any transfer of any such property in lieu of a condemnation or similar taking thereof.
Casualty Event
     "" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender, Issuing Bank or Participant (or, for purposes of Section 2.14(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.
Change in Law
     "" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
     (a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the Borrower;
     (b) the first day on which a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Borrower are not Continuing Directors;
     (c) the Borrower consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into any Wireline Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Borrower or such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where (i) the Voting Stock of the Borrower outstanding immediately prior to such
Table of Contents
transaction continues as, or is converted into or exchanged for Voting Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the surviving or transferee Person constituting a majority of the outstanding shares of such Voting Stock of such surviving or transferee Person (immediately after giving effect to such issuance) and (ii) immediately after such transaction, no "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of 50% or more of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the surviving or transferee Person; or
     (d) the occurrence of any "Change in Control" (or similar event, however denominated) under any indenture or other agreement in respect of Material Indebtedness, except for a "Change of Control" under the Valor Indenture resulting from the Merger.
     "" (a) when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans, Tranche A Term Loans, Tranche B Term Loans or Tranche C Term Loans, (b) when used in reference to any Commitment, refers to whether such Commitment is a Revolving Commitment, Tranche A Commitment, Tranche B Commitment or Tranche C Commitment and (c) when used in reference to any Lender, refers to whether such Lender is a Revolving Lender, Tranche A Lender, Tranche B Lender or Tranche C Lender.
Class
     "" means Bank of America, N.A., Citibank, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, each in its capacity as a co-documentation agent.
Co-Documentation Agents
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
     "" means any and all "Collateral", as defined in any applicable Security Document.
Collateral
     "" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A, in its capacity as collateral agent for the Secured Parties hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, and its permitted successors in such capacity as provided in Article 8.
Collateral Agent
     "" means at any time the requirement that:
Collateral and Guarantee Requirement
     (a) the Collateral Agent shall have received from each Loan Party either (i) counterparts of the Guarantee Agreement and the Security Agreement, duly executed and delivered on behalf of such Loan Party, or (ii) in the case of any Person that becomes a Loan Party after the Effective Date, supplements to the Guarantee Agreement and the Security Agreement, in the form specified therein,
Table of Contents
duly executed and delivered on behalf of such Person (within the time frames required thereby);
     (b) all outstanding Equity Interests in and all outstanding promissory notes issued by any Wireline Company owned by or on behalf of any Loan Party shall have been pledged pursuant to the Security Agreement (except that the Loan Parties shall not be required to pledge more than 66% of the outstanding voting Equity Interests in any Foreign Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party) and the Collateral Agent shall have received all certificates or other instruments representing such Equity Interests (except to the extent such Equity Interests are not represented by certificates or other instruments) and Indebtedness, together with undated stock powers or other instruments of transfer with respect thereto endorsed in blank;
     (c) except as otherwise provided in the Security Agreement, all documents and instruments, including Uniform Commercial Code financing statements, required by law or reasonably requested by the Collateral Agent to be filed, registered or recorded to create the Liens intended to be created by the Security Documents and perfect or record such Liens to the extent, and with the priority, required by this Agreement and the Security Agreement, shall have been (or shall have made arrangements to provide for) filed, registered or recorded or delivered to the Collateral Agent for filing, registration or recording;
     (d) each Loan Party shall have obtained all consents and approvals required to be obtained by it in connection with the execution and delivery of all Security Documents to which it is a party, the performance of its obligations thereunder and the granting of the Liens granted by it thereunder, in each case to the extent required by this Agreement and the Security Documents; and
     (e) each Loan Party shall have taken all other action required to perfect, register and/or record the Liens granted by it thereunder, in each case to the extent required by this Agreement and the Security Documents.
     "" means (a) the Loan Parties and (b) each other Subsidiary (i) that is not required to Guarantee the Facility Obligations pursuant to the Loan Documents (other than any Insignificant Subsidiary) and (ii) all Equity Interests in which, and all Indebtedness owing to any Loan Party of which, shall have been pledged and delivered to the Collateral Agent in accordance with the Collateral and Guarantee Requirement.
Collateral Support Parties
     "" means a Revolving Commitment, Tranche A Commitment, Tranche B Commitment or Tranche C Commitment, or any combination thereof (as the context may require).
Commitment
     "" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to (a) if the Leverage Ratio on the most recent determination date is 2.00 to 1.0 or
Commitment Fee Rate
Table of Contents
higher, 0.25% and (b) otherwise, 0.20%. For purposes of this definition, (x) the Leverage Ratio shall be determined as of the end of each Fiscal Quarter based on the Borrower's consolidated financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or 5.01(b) and (y) each change in the Commitment Fee Rate resulting from a change in the Leverage Ratio shall be effective during the period from and including the day when the Administrative Agent receives the financial statements indicating such change to but excluding the effective date of the next such change; that, at the option of the Administrative Agent (or at the request of the Required Lenders), if the Borrower fails to deliver consolidated financial statements to the Administrative Agent as and when required by Section 5.01(a) or 5.01(b), the Commitment Fee Rate will be that set forth in clause (a) above during the period from the expiration of the time specified for such delivery until such financial statements are so delivered.
provided
     "" means the Commitment Letter dated as of December 8, 2005 among Alltel, the Lead Arrangers and JPMCB and MLCC, as amended by the letter agreement among such parties dated April 12, 2006.
Commitment Letter
     "" means, collectively, the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, the rules and regulations of the FCC, and written orders, policies, and decisions of the FCC and the courts' interpretation of the foregoing.
Communications Act
     "" means, for any period, Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for such period , without duplication:
Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA
plus
     (a) provision for taxes based on income or profits of the Wireline Companies for such period, to the extent that such provision for taxes was deducted in computing such Consolidated Adjusted Net Income;
plus
     (b) Interest Expense of the Wireline Companies for such period, to the extent that such Interest Expense was deducted in computing such Consolidated Adjusted Net Income;
plus
     (c) depreciation, amortization (including amortization of intangibles but excluding amortization of prepaid cash expenses that were paid in a prior period), goodwill impairment charges and other non-cash expenses (excluding any such non-cash expense to the extent that it represents an accrual of or reserve for cash expenses in any future period or amortization of a prepaid cash expense that was paid in a prior period) of the Wireline Companies for such period to the extent that such depreciation, amortization and other non-cash charges or expenses were deducted in computing such Consolidated Adjusted Net Income;
plus
     (d) the amount of any minority interest expense deducted in computing such Consolidated Adjusted Net Income;
plus
Table of Contents
     (e) any non-cash compensation charge arising from any grant of stock, stock options or other equity-based awards, to the extent deducted in computing such Consolidated Adjusted Net Income;
plus
     (f) any non-cash Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 income (or loss) related to hedging activities, to the extent deducted in computing such Consolidated Adjusted Net Income;
minus
     (g) non-cash items increasing such Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for such period, other than (i) the accrual of revenue consistent with past practice and (ii) the reversal in such period of an accrual of, or cash reserve for, cash expenses in a prior period, to the extent such accrual or reserve did not increase Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA in a prior period;
in each case determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
     Notwithstanding the preceding, the provision for taxes based on the income or profits of, the Interest Expense of, and the depreciation and amortization and other non-cash expenses of, a Subsidiary will be added to Consolidated Adjusted Net Income to compute Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (A) in the same proportion that the Net Income of such Subsidiary was added to compute such Consolidated Adjusted Net Income and (B) only to the extent that a corresponding amount would be permitted, as of such determination date, to be dividended or distributed to the Borrower by such Subsidiary (x) without direct or indirect restriction pursuant to the terms of its charter and all agreements and instruments applicable to such Subsidiary or its stockholders and (y) solely for purposes of any determination of Available Distributable Cash, without prior governmental approval (that has not been obtained) (unless and to the extent that such amount constitutes a Distribution Advance) and without direct or indirect restriction pursuant to the terms of any judgments, decrees, orders, statutes, rules and/or governmental regulations applicable to such Subsidiary and/or its any of stockholders.
     "" means, for any period, the aggregate of the Net Income of the Wireline Companies for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; that:
Consolidated Adjusted Net Income
provided
     (a) the Net Income of any Person that is not a Subsidiary or that is accounted for by the equity method of accounting will be included only to the extent of the amount of dividends or distributions paid in cash to a Wireline Company during such period (and the net loss of any such Person will be included only to the extent that such loss is funded in cash by a Wireline Company during such period);
     (b) the Net Income of any Subsidiary will be excluded to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by such
Table of Contents
Subsidiary of such Net Income is not, as of such date of determination, permitted (x) directly or indirectly, by operation of the terms of its charter or any agreement or instrument applicable to such Subsidiary or its equityholders or (y) solely for purposes of any determination of Available Distributable Cash, without any prior governmental approval (that has not been obtained) or, directly or indirectly, by operation of the terms of any judgment, decree, order, statute, rule or governmental regulation applicable to such Subsidiary or its equityholders, in each case except to the extent that such amount was advanced prior to such date in cash by such Subsidiary (directly or indirectly) to the Borrower in accordance with Section 6.01(a)(v) (any such advance, except to the extent it has been repaid, prepaid, redeemed, acquired or otherwise returned (directly or indirectly) to such Subsidiary, a "");
Distribution Advance
     (c) the Net Income of any Person acquired during the specified period for any period prior to the date of such acquisition will be excluded; and
     (d) the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles will be excluded.
     "" means, for any period, the excess of (a) the sum of (i) Interest Expense of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, and (ii) any cash payments made by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary during such period in respect of Interest Expense that were or will be amortized, accrued or otherwise recognized in a previous or future period, (b) the sum of (i) to the extent included in such consolidated Interest Expense for such period, any non-cash amounts amortized, accrued or otherwise recognized in such period, and (ii) cash interest income actually received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary (determined on a consolidated basis) in such period.
Consolidated Cash Interest Expense
minus
     "" means, as of any date, the principal amount of Indebtedness of the Wireline Companies outstanding as of such date, determined on a consolidated basis; that, for purposes of this definition, the term "Indebtedness" will not include (i) contingent obligations of any Wireline Company as an account party or applicant in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty, unless such letter of credit or letter of guaranty supports an obligation that constitutes Indebtedness of a Person other than a Wireline Company, (ii) any obligation constituting Indebtedness pursuant to clause (j) of the definition thereof, (iii) any Earn-out Obligation or obligation in respect of purchase price adjustment permitted pursuant to Section 6.01(a)(xv) and (iv) any bonds or similar instruments in the nature of surety, performance, appeal or similar bonds.
Consolidated Debt
provided
     "" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the board of directors of the Borrower who:
Continuing Directors
Table of Contents
     (a) was a member of such board of directors on the Effective Date; or
     (b) was nominated for election or elected to such board of directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board of directors at the time of such nomination or election.
     "" means the subsidiaries of Alltel that, after giving effect to the Preliminary Restructuring, own any assets, liabilities or operations of Alltel's wireline telecommunications business.
Contributed Subsidiaries
     "" means the contribution by Alltel to the Borrower, directly or indirectly, of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock or other Equity Interests in the Contributed Subsidiaries in exchange for all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of the Borrower, the 2016 Notes and the Special Dividend.
Contribution
     "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
     "" means the exchange for its outstanding debt securities or other transfer to its creditors of the 2016 Notes by Alltel.
Debt Exchange
     "" means the issuance or other incurrence by any Wireline Company of any Indebtedness for borrowed money.
Debt Issuance
     "" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which, upon notice, lapse of time or both, would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default under Article 7.
Default
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.18(b).
Defaulting Lender
     "" means the Fair Market Value of noncash consideration received by the Wireline Companies in connection with an Asset Disposition that is so designated as Designated Noncash Consideration pursuant to a certificate of a Financial Officer, setting forth the basis of such valuation, less the amount of Cash Equivalents received in connection with a subsequent sale of such Designated Noncash Consideration.
Designated Noncash Consideration
     "" means the actions, suits and proceedings and the environmental matters disclosed in Schedule 3.06.
Disclosed Matters
     "" means any Equity Interest that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible, or for which it is
Disqualified Stock
Table of Contents
exchangeable, in each case at the option of the holder thereof), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or is redeemable at the option of the holder thereof, in whole or in part, on or prior to the date that is 123 days after the Tranche B Maturity Date or, if such Equity Interests are issued after the Borrower has obtained any Incremental Loans constituting term loans or while any Commitments from Incremental Lenders to make Incremental Loans constituting term loans remain in effect, 123 days after the maturity date for such Incremental Loans, unless all such Incremental Loans have been repaid in full and all Commitments in respect thereof have been terminated; that only the portion of such Equity Interests which so matures or is mandatorily redeemable, is so convertible or exchangeable or is so redeemable at the option of the holder thereof prior to such dates shall be deemed to be Disqualified Stock. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any Equity Interests that would constitute Disqualified Stock solely because the holders thereof have the right to require a Wireline Company to repurchase such Equity Interests upon the occurrence of a change of control or an asset sale will not constitute Disqualified Stock if the terms of such Equity Interest provide that the Wireline Companies may not repurchase or redeem any such Equity Interest pursuant to such provisions unless such repurchase or redemption complies with Section 6.08. The term "Disqualified Stock" will also include any options, warrants or other rights that are convertible into Disqualified Stock or that are redeemable at the option of the holder, or required to be redeemed, prior to the date that is 123 days after the Tranche B Maturity Date or, if such Equity Interests are issued after the Borrower has obtained any Incremental Loans constituting term loans or while any Commitments from Incremental Lenders to make Incremental Loans constituting term loans remain in effect, 123 days after the maturity date for such Incremental Loans, unless all such Incremental Loans have been repaid in full and all Commitments in respect thereof have been terminated.
provided, however,
     "" means the distribution by Alltel to its shareholders of all of the common stock of the Borrower.
Distribution
     "" has the meaning set forth in clause (b) of the definition of "Consolidated Adjusted Net Income".
Distribution Advance
     "" means the Distribution Agreement dated as of December 8, 2005 between Alltel and the Borrower, as filed with the SEC as Annex B to the Registration Statement.
Distribution Agreement
     "" means any period (a) commencing on any day on which consolidated financial statements are delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or 5.01(b) (or, if applicable, the last day of the most recently completed Dividend Suspension Period) if the Leverage Ratio as of the last day of the then most recently completed Fiscal Quarter covered thereby is greater than 4.50 to 1.0
Dividend Suspension Period
Table of Contents
and (b) ending on the first day thereafter on which a Financial Officer delivers consolidated financial statements pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or 5.01(b) and a certificate pursuant to Section 5.01(c), all demonstrating that the Leverage Ratio was equal to or less than 4.50 to 1.0 as of the last day of the then most recently completed Fiscal Quarter covered thereby.
     "" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States.
dollars
$
     "" means any Subsidiary other than a Foreign Subsidiary.
Domestic Subsidiary
     "" means any contingent consideration based on the future operating performance of an acquired entity or assets, or other purchase price adjustment or indemnification obligation, payable following the consummation of an acquisition (including pursuant to a merger or consolidation) based on criteria set forth in the documentation governing or relating to such acquisition.
Earn-out Obligation
     "" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02).
Effective Date
     "" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, having the force or effect of law and relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of, or exposure to, any pollutant, toxic, radioactive, ignitable, corrosive, reactive or otherwise hazardous substance, waste or material or to occupational health and safety matters.
Environmental Laws
     "" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of any Wireline Company directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) actual or alleged violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
     "" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any such equity interest
Equity Interests
Table of Contents
but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, any of the foregoing.
     "" means any issuance by the Borrower of any of its Equity Interests to any Person (other than another Wireline Company) or receipt by any Wireline Company of a capital contribution from any Person (other than another Wireline Company), including the issuance of Equity Interests pursuant to the exercise of options or warrants and the conversion of any Indebtedness to equity.
Equity Issuance
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
     "" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30 day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA.
ERISA Event
     "", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
Eurodollar
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article 7.
Event of Default
Table of Contents
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules of the SEC thereunder.
Exchange Act
     "" means, with respect to any Agent, any Lender, any Issuing Bank, any Participant or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or with respect to any obligation of the Borrower hereunder (each, a ""), (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by any jurisdiction, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Recipient (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.18(b)), any withholding tax that (i) is imposed by a Governmental Authority in the United States on amounts payable to such Foreign Recipient at the time such Foreign Recipient becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new Lending Affiliate or lending office) or, in the case of a Participant, at the time the Participant purchases the relevant participation, except to the extent that such Foreign Recipient (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.16(a), or (ii) is attributable to such Foreign Recipient's failure to comply with Section 2.16(e).
Excluded Taxes
Recipient
     "" means the letters of credit previously issued pursuant to the Valor 2005 Credit Facility which are (i) outstanding on the Effective Date and (ii) listed on Schedule 1.01-B.
Existing Letters of Credit
     "" means the credit facilities provided to the Loan Parties under the Loan Documents.
Facilities
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 1(b) of the Guarantee Agreement.
Facility Guarantee
     "" means (i) all principal of all Loans and LC Reimbursement Obligations outstanding from time to time under this Agreement, all interest (including Post-Petition Interest) on such Loans and LC Reimbursement Obligations and all other amounts now or hereafter payable by the Borrower to the Lenders pursuant to the Loan Documents, (ii) all obligations of the Borrower under the Cash Management Agreements and Swap Agreements listed on Schedule 1.01-A and all interest (including Post-Petition Interest) thereon and (iii) all obligations (if any) designated by the Borrower as additional Facility Obligations pursuant to Section 20 of the Security Agreement.
Facility Obligations
     "" means a price that would be paid in an arm's-length transaction between an informed and willing seller under no compulsion to sell and an informed and willing buyer under no compulsion to buy, as determined in good faith by a Financial Officer of the Borrower, whose determination, unless
Fair Market Value
Table of Contents
otherwise specified below, will be conclusive if evidenced by an officer's certificate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Financial Officer's determination of Fair Market Value must be evidenced by a certificate of a Financial Officer delivered to the Administrative Agent if the Fair Market Value exceeds $25,000,000.
     "" means the Federal Communications Commission or any successor Governmental Authority exercising similar functions.
FCC
     "" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
     "" means (a) the Fee Letter dated as of December 8, 2005 among Alltel, the Lead Arrangers and JPMCB and MLCC and (b) the Fee Letter dated as of July 17, 2006 between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Fee Letters
     "" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower.
Financial Officer
     "" means a fiscal quarter of the Borrower.
Fiscal Quarter
     "" means a fiscal year of the Borrower.
Fiscal Year
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.16(e)
Foreign Recipient
     "" means a Subsidiary (which may be a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other legal entity) organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, other than any such entity that is (whether as a matter of law, pursuant to an election by such entity or otherwise) treated as a partnership in which any Loan Party is a partner or as a branch of any Loan Party for United States income tax purposes.
Foreign Subsidiary
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
GAAP
     "" means the government of the United States, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body (including the FCC and
Governmental Authority
Table of Contents
any PUC, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government).
     "" means any authorization, approval, consent, franchise, license, covenant, order, ruling, permit, certification, exemption, notice, declaration or similar right, undertaking or other action of, to or by, or any filing, qualification or registration with any Governmental Authority.
Governmental Authorization
     "" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness; that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business; and , , that the amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be the lower of (i) an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guarantee is made and (ii) the maximum amount for which such guarantor may be liable pursuant to the terms of the instrument embodying such Guarantee or, if such Guarantee is not an unconditional guarantee of the entire amount of the primary obligation and such maximum amount is not stated or determinable, the amount of such guarantor's maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by such Person in good faith.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
provided
further
     "" means the Guarantee Agreement between the Subsidiaries party thereto and the Collateral Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit C.
Guarantee Agreement
     "" means each Person listed on the signature pages of the Guarantee Agreement under the caption "Guarantors" and each Subsidiary that shall, at any time after the date hereof, become a Guarantor pursuant to Section 5.10, until such time as released from their obligations under the Guarantee Agreement.
Guarantors
Table of Contents
     "" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law because of their harmful, dangerous or deleterious properties or characteristics.
Hazardous Materials
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b)(iii).
Incremental Facility Amendment
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b)(iii).
Incremental Lender
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b)(i).
Incremental Loan
     "" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (d) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding accrued obligations or trade payables, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business), (e) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing unconditional right to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed, (f) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (g) all Capital Lease Obligations and Attributable Debt of such Person, (h) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty, (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances, (j) all net obligations of such Person under any Swap Agreements, and (k) all obligations of such Person to redeem, repay or otherwise repurchase any Disqualified Stock, valued at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary maximum fixed repurchase price plus accrued dividends. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor. The amount of Indebtedness of any Person pursuant to clause (e) of this definition shall (unless such Indebtedness has been assumed by such Person) be deemed to be equal to the lesser of (A) the aggregate unpaid amount of such Indebtedness and (B) the Fair Market Value of the property encumbered thereby at the date of determination of the amount of such Indebtedness. The amount of any Indebtedness outstanding as of any date will be the outstanding balance at such date of all unconditional obligations as described above and, with respect to contingent obligations, the maximum
Indebtedness
Table of Contents
liability upon the occurrence of the contingency giving rise to the obligation, and will be: (1) the accreted value thereof, in the case of any Indebtedness issued with original issue discount; and (2) the principal amount thereof, together with any interest thereon that is more than 30 days past due, in the case of any other Indebtedness.
     "" means Taxes imposed by any Governmental Authority of or in the United States or any other jurisdiction from which or through which payments are made under the Loan Documents, other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
     "" means the Confidential Information Memorandum dated June 2006 relating to the Wireline Companies and the Transactions.
Information Memorandum
     "" means any Subsidiary of the Borrower that has total assets of not more than $5,000,000 and that is designated by the Borrower as an "Insignificant Subsidiary," that the total assets of all Subsidiaries that are so designated, as reflected on the Borrower's most recent consolidating balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP, may not in the aggregate at any time exceed $25,000,000.
Insignificant Subsidiary
provided
     "" means, on any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to (b) Consolidated Cash Interest Expense for the period of four consecutive Fiscal Quarters ended on such day (or, in the case of any calculation to be made on Pro Forma Basis, if such day is not the last day of a Fiscal Quarter, ended on the last day of the Fiscal Quarter most recently ended before such day).
Interest Coverage Ratio
     "" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.06.
Interest Election Request
     "" means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the sum, without duplication, of:
Interest Expense
     (a) the consolidated interest expense of such Person and its subsidiaries for such period, whether paid or accrued, including, without limitation, original issue discount, non-cash interest payments, the interest component of any deferred payment obligations, the interest component of any deferred payment obligations, the interest component of all payments associated with Capital Lease Obligations, imputed interest with respect to Attributable Debt, commissions, discounts and other fees and charges incurred in respect of letter of credit or bankers' acceptance financings, and net of the effect of all payments made or received pursuant to Swap Agreements, but excluding the amortization or write-off of debt issuance costs;
plus
Table of Contents
     (b) the consolidated interest of such Person and its subsidiaries that was capitalized during such period;
plus
     (c) any interest expense on Indebtedness of another Person that is Guaranteed by such Person or one of its subsidiaries or secured by a Lien on assets of such Person or one of its subsidiaries, whether or not such Guarantee or Lien is called upon;
plus
     (d) all dividends, whether paid or accrued and whether or not in cash, on any series of Disqualified Stock of such Person, other than dividends on Equity Interests payable solely in Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of such Person or to such Person or to a subsidiary of such Person,
     in each case determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
     "" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December and (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period.
Interest Payment Date
     "" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter (or nine or twelve months thereafter if, at the time of the relevant borrowing or conversion or continuation thereof, all Lenders participating therein agree to make an interest period of such duration available), as the Borrower may elect; , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.04.
Investment
     "" means, as the context may require, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., or, at any time and from time to time, up to three other Revolving
Issuing Bank
Table of Contents
Lenders that are designated in writing by the Borrower, are reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, and that agree to issue one or more Letters of Credit hereunder and to report in writing to the Administrative Agent all activity with respect to such Letters of Credit in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, in each case in its capacity as an issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, and its successors in such capacity as provided in Section 2.04(i); that with respect to the Existing Letters of Credit, the Revolving Lender which issued the same shall be an Issuing Bank with respect thereto. Any Issuing Bank may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by Affiliates of such Issuing Bank, in which case the term "" shall include any such Affiliate with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate.
provided
Issuing Bank
     "" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
JPMCB
     "" means the actual knowledge of a Responsible Officer.
Knowledge
     "" means a payment made by an Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
LC Disbursement
     "" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Reimbursement Obligations at such time. The LC Exposure of any Revolving Lender at any time shall be its Revolving Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time.
LC Exposure
     "" means, at any time, all obligations of the Borrower to reimburse the Issuing Bank for amounts paid by it in respect of drawings under Letters of Credit, including any portion of such obligations to which Lenders have become subrogated by making payments to the Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.04(e).
LC Reimbursement Obligations
     "" means J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Merrill Lynch & Co., in their capacity as Co-Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners.
Lead Arrangers
     "" means the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Agents.
Lender Parties
     "" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption and the terms and provisions in Section 9.04, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption and the terms and provisions in Section 9.04.
Lenders
     "" means any letter of credit issued pursuant to this Agreement (including each Existing Letter of Credit).
Letter of Credit
Table of Contents
     "" means, on any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Debt as of such day to (b) Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for the period of four consecutive Fiscal Quarters ended on such day (or, in the case of any calculation to be made on a Pro Forma Basis, if such day is not the last day of a Fiscal Quarter, ended on the last day of the Fiscal Quarter most recently ended before such day).
Leverage Ratio
     "" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate ("") from Telerate Successor Page 3750, as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
BBA LIBOR
LIBO Rate
     "" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities.
Lien
     "" means this Agreement, the Commitment Letter, the Fee Letters, any Incremental Facility Amendment and the Security Documents.
Loan Documents
     "" means the Borrower and the Guarantors.
Loan Parties
     "" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
     "" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, properties or liabilities or (I) in the case of any determination to be made prior to the Merger, condition (financial or otherwise) or (II) in the case of any other determination, financial condition of (x) the Wireline Companies taken as a whole or (y) with respect to any determination to be made prior to the Merger, Valor and its subsidiaries, in each case taken as a whole, or the ability of
Material Adverse Effect
Table of Contents
the Borrower or Valor to perform its obligations under the Merger Agreement; excluding, in the case of any determination to be made prior to the Merger, any facts, events, changes, effects or developments (i) generally affecting the rural, regional or nationwide wireline voice and data industry in the United States or in other countries in which such person or its subsidiaries conduct business, including regulatory and political developments and changes in law or generally accepted accounting principles, (ii) generally affecting the economy or financial markets in the United States or in other countries in which such person or its subsidiaries conduct business, or (iii) resulting from the announcement of the Merger or the taking of any action required by the Merger Agreement or related agreements in connection with the Merger (including any decrease in customer demand, any reduction in revenues, any disruption in supplier, partner or similar relationships, or any loss of employees), (b) the ability of any Loan Party to perform any of its payment obligations under any Loan Document or (c) the rights of or remedies available to any Lender Party under any Loan Document.
     "" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit) of any one or more of the Wireline Companies in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $75,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of any Wireline Company in respect of any Swap Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that such Wireline Company would be required to pay if such Swap Agreement were terminated at such time.
Material Indebtedness
     "" means the merger of the Borrower with and into Valor, with Valor as the surviving entity, followed immediately by the merger of the Windstream Corporation, a Delaware corporation, with and into Valor, with Valor as the surviving entity (to be renamed "Windstream Corporation").
Merger
     "" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of December 8, 2005 among Alltel, the Borrower and Valor, as filed with the SEC as Annex A to the Registration Statement, as amended on May 18, 2006.
Merger Agreement
     "" means Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation.
MLCC
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
     "" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" means, with respect to any specified Person, the net income (loss) of such Person, determined in accordance with GAAP and before any reduction in respect of Preferred Stock dividends, excluding, however:
Net Income
     (a) any gain or loss, together with any related provision for taxes on such gain or loss, realized in connection with: (i) any sale of assets outside the
Table of Contents
ordinary course of business of such Person or any of its subsidiaries; or (ii) the disposition of any securities by such Person or any of its subsidiaries or the extinguishment of any Indebtedness of such Person or any of its subsidiaries; and
     (b) any extraordinary or non-recurring gain, loss, expense or charge (including any one-time expenses related to the Transactions), together with any related provision for taxes; that non-recurring cash charges other than related to the Transactions shall not exceed $25,000,000 in any period of four consecutive Fiscal Quarters.
provided
     "" means the aggregate cash proceeds (including (x) payments in respect of deferred payment obligations (to the extent corresponding to the principal, but not the interest component, thereof) and (y) any cash received upon the sale or other disposition of any non-cash consideration received in any Asset Disposition or Casualty Event) received by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in respect of any Asset Disposition or Casualty Event, net of (1) the direct costs relating to such Asset Disposition or Casualty Event and the sale or other disposition of any such non-cash consideration, including, without limitation, legal, accounting, investment banking and brokerage fees, and sales commissions, and any relocation expenses incurred as a result thereof, (2) Taxes paid or payable as a result thereof, in each case, after taking into account any available Tax credits or deductions and any Tax sharing arrangements, (3) amounts required to be applied to the repayment of Indebtedness or other liabilities secured by a Lien on the asset or assets that were the subject of such Asset Disposition or Casualty Event or required to be paid as a result of such Asset Disposition or Casualty Event, (4) any reserve for adjustment in respect of the sale price of such asset or assets established in accordance with GAAP, (5) in the case of any Asset Disposition by a Subsidiary of the Borrower, payments to holders of Equity Interests in such Subsidiary in such capacity (other than such Equity Interests held by the Borrower or any Subsidiary) to the extent that such payment is required to permit the distribution of such proceeds in respect of the Equity Interests in such Subsidiary held by the Borrower or such Subsidiary and (6) appropriate amounts to be provided by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries as a reserve against liabilities associated with such Asset Disposition or Casualty Event, including, without limitation, pension and other post-employment benefit liabilities, liabilities related to environmental matters and liabilities under any indemnification obligations associated with such Asset Disposition or Casualty Event, all as determined in accordance with GAAP; that (a) any excess amounts set aside for payment of Taxes pursuant to clause (2) above that are remaining after such Taxes have been paid in full or the statute of limitations therefor has expired and (b) any amounts held in reserve pursuant to clause (6), will, in each case when no longer so held, become Net Proceeds.
Net Proceeds
provided
     "" means the 2016 Notes and the 2013 Notes.
New Notes
Table of Contents
     "" means the indenture under which the New Notes are issued and all other instruments, agreements and other documents evidencing or governing the New Notes or providing for any Guarantee or other right in respect thereof.
New Notes Documents
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.02(c).
Non-Consenting Lender
     "" means any and all present or future recording, stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise, transfer, sales or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of this Agreement.
Other Taxes
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04.
Participant
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
     "" means a certificate in the form of Exhibit E to the Security Agreement or any other form approved by the Collateral Agent and the Borrower.
Perfection Certificate
     "" means any Acquisition by a Collateral Support Party; that:
Permitted Acquisition
provided
     (a) the property acquired (or the property of the Person acquired) in such Acquisition shall be used or useful in a Permitted Business;
     (b) the Borrower shall be in compliance with Sections 6.14 and 6.15, determined on a Pro Forma Basis;
     (d) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would result from such Acquisition; and
     (e) if the aggregate consideration paid by the Wireline Companies for any Acquisition (including the principal amount of Indebtedness assumed by the Wireline Companies in connection therewith) exceeds $100,000,000, the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate from a Financial Officer describing such Acquisition and certifying as to the foregoing matters and demonstrating such compliance in reasonable detail.
     "" means unsecured Indebtedness of any Loan Party that (a) does not require any scheduled payment of principal (including pursuant to a sinking fund obligation) or mandatory redemption or redemption at the option of the holders thereof (except for redemptions in respect of asset sales and changes in control on terms that are market terms on the date of issuance)
Permitted Additional Debt
Table of Contents
prior to the date that is 123 days after the Tranche B Maturity Date or, if such Indebtedness is incurred after the Borrower has obtained any Incremental Loans constituting term loans or while any Commitments from Incremental Lenders to make Incremental Loans constituting term loans remain in effect, 123 days after the maturity date for such Incremental Loans, unless all such Incremental Loans have been repaid in full and all Commitments in respect thereof have been terminated, (b) contains other terms (including covenants, events of default, remedies, redemption provisions and change of control provisions) that are market terms on the date of issuance as determined by a Financial Officer in good faith, that such covenants and events of default are not materially more restrictive than the covenants and events of default contained in this Agreement and do not require the maintenance or achievement of any financial performance standards other than as a condition to the taking of specified actions, and (c) bears interest at a market rate of interest on the date of issuance of such Indebtedness.
provided
     "" means a disposition of assets and property of any of the Wireline Companies in consideration for the Acquisition of assets and property of a Person engaged in the Permitted Business (other than an Affiliate of any Wireline Company); that:
Permitted Asset Exchange
provided
     (a) the aggregate assets and properties of the Wireline Companies which may be disposed of in all Permitted Asset Exchanges shall not relate to more than 35% of the access lines of the Wireline Companies determined at the time of any disposition;
     (b) the assets and properties disposed of in any Permitted Asset Exchange, together with any cash consideration paid by the Wireline Companies, shall have a Fair Market Value substantially equivalent to the Fair Market Value of the assets and properties Acquired by the Wireline Companies in such Permitted Asset Exchange, together with any cash consideration received by the Wireline Companies;
     (c) the Borrower shall comply with Section 2.10(b) with respect to any Net Proceeds received by the Wireline Companies in respect of any Permitted Asset Exchange;
     (d) any cash consideration paid by the Wireline Companies in respect of any Permitted Asset Exchange (but not any other property or assets disposed of in any such transaction) shall be treated hereunder as consideration paid by the Wireline Companies for a Permitted Acquisition for purposes of determining whether a certificate is required to be delivered by the Borrower pursuant to clause (e) of the definition of such term; and
     (e) if the Net Proceeds thereof exceed $100,000,000, (i) the Borrower shall be in compliance with Sections 6.14 and 6.15, determined on a Pro Forma
Table of Contents
Basis; and (ii) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would result therefrom.
     "" means any business conducted or proposed to be conducted (as described in the Information Memorandum) by the Wireline Companies on the Effective Date and other businesses reasonably related thereto, including any reasonable extension or expansion thereof.
Permitted Business
     "" means:
Permitted Encumbrances
     (a) Liens for Taxes, assessments and governmental charges not yet delinquent or which are being contested in compliance with Section 5.05;
     (b) Liens incurred or deposits made in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security obligations;
     (c) Liens, deposits or pledges to secure the performance of bids, tenders, trade contracts, leases, or other similar obligations, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
     (d) Liens, deposits or pledges to secure public or statutory obligations, surety, stay, appeal, indemnity, performance or other similar bonds or obligations; and deposits or pledges in lieu of such bonds or obligations, or to secure such bonds or obligations, or to secure letters of credit in lieu of or supporting the payment of such bonds or obligations;
     (e) judgment and attachment liens that do not constitute an Event of Default under clause (k) of Article 7 and notices of and associated rights related to litigation being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which reserves have been made in accordance with GAAP;
lis pendens
     (f) survey exceptions, encumbrances, easements or reservations of, or rights of other for, rights of way, zoning or other restrictions as to the use of properties, and defects in title which, in the case of any of the foregoing, were not incurred or created to secure the payment of Indebtedness, and which in the aggregate do not materially adversely affect the value of such properties or materially impair the use for the purposes of which such properties are held by any Wireline Company;
     (g) Liens in favor of collecting or payor banks having a right of setoff, revocation, refund or chargeback with respect to money or instruments of the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof on deposit with or in possession of such bank;
     (h) Liens representing any interest or title of a licensor, lessor or sublicensor or sublessor, or a licensee, lessee or sublicensee or sublessee, in the
Table of Contents
property subject to any lease, license or sublicense permitted by this Agreement (other than any property that is the subject of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction); and
     (i) Liens arising from precautionary Uniform Commercial Code financing statements regarding operating leases;
that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
provided
     "" means any Indebtedness of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries incurred in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, refinance, renew, replace, defease or refund other Indebtedness of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Indebtedness of the Borrower to any Subsidiary or of any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary); that:
Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness
provided
     (a) the amount of such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness does not exceed the amount of the Indebtedness so extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded (plus all accrued and unpaid interest thereon and the amount of any reasonably determined premium necessary to accomplish such refinancing and such reasonable expenses incurred in connection therewith);
     (b) such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and has a Weighted Average Life to Maturity equal to or greater than the then Weighted Average Life to Maturity of, the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded;
     (c) if the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded is subordinated in right of payment to the Secured Obligations, such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness has a final maturity date later than 123 days after the Tranche B Maturity Date or, if such Equity Interests are issued after the Borrower has obtained any Incremental Loans constituting term loans or while any Commitments from Incremental Lenders to make Incremental Loans constituting term loans remain in effect, 123 days after the maturity date for such Incremental Loans, unless all such Incremental Loans have been repaid in full and all Commitments in respect thereof have been terminated and is subordinated to the Secured Obligations on terms at least as favorable, taken as a whole, to the Secured Parties as those contained in the documentation governing the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded;
     (d) if the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded is unsecured, such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness is unsecured;
Table of Contents
     (e) if the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded is Indebtedness under the Loan Documents, the Assumed Valor Bonds or the AC Holdings Bonds, such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness is unsecured; and
     (f) such Indebtedness is incurred by either (i) by the Borrower or any Loan Party or (ii) by the Subsidiary that is the obligor on the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded.
     "" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
     "" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 1(c) of the Security Agreement.
Post-Petition Interest
     "" means, with respect to any Person, any Equity Interests in such Person that have preferential rights to any other Equity Interests in such Person with respect to dividends or redemptions upon liquidation.
Preferred Stock
     "" means the contribution by Alltel of all of the assets, liabilities and operations of its wireline telecommunications business to its subsidiaries.
Preliminary Restructuring
     "" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
     "" means, with respect to the preparation of the Pro Forma Financial Statements and the calculation of the Leverage Ratio or the Interest Coverage Ratio at any time, that such calculation shall give pro forma effect to all Permitted Acquisitions, all Permitted Asset Exchanges, all issuances, incurrences or assumptions or repayments of Indebtedness (and the application of proceeds thereof) and all sales, transfers or other dispositions of any Subsidiary, line of business or division (any of the foregoing, an "") and to the Transactions (with any such Indebtedness being deemed to be amortized over the applicable measurement period in accordance with its terms and, if any such Indebtedness bears interest at a floating rate, assuming that such Indebtedness bears interest during any portion of such measurement period prior
Pro Forma Basis
Applicable Transaction
Table of Contents
to the consummation of the Applicable Transaction or the Transactions at the interest rate applicable to such Indebtedness at such time), in each case that have occurred during (or, if such calculation is being made for the purpose of determining whether any proposed transaction will constitute a Permitted Acquisition or Permitted Asset Exchange or an incurrence of Indebtedness pursuant to Section 6.01(a)(viii) or Section 6.01(a)(xviii), Permitted Additional Debt or Incremental Loans, since the beginning of) the four consecutive Fiscal Quarter period of the Borrower most recently ended on or prior to such date as if they had occurred on the first day of such four consecutive Fiscal Quarter period (including cost savings (i) to the extent such cost savings would be permitted to be reflected in pro forma financial information complying with the requirements of GAAP and Article 11 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act, as interpreted by the Staff of the SEC, and as certified by a Financial Officer and (ii) which, in the case of the Transactions, may include additional cost savings which have otherwise been realized or for which steps necessary for realization have been taken or are reasonably expected to be taken following the Transactions as determined in good faith by a Financial Officer, that the net cost savings in connection with the Transactions pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above that may be given such effect shall not exceed $50,000,000 in the aggregate for purposes of any calculation during the first of four consecutive Fiscal Quarters after the Effective Date (or, in any case thereafter, such amount less $12,500,000 for each additional full Fiscal Quarter thereafter).
provided
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.04(b).
Pro Forma Financial Statements
     "" means any state public service or public utility commission or other state Governmental Authority that exercises jurisdiction over the rates or services or the acquisition, construction or operation of any telecommunications system of any Person who owns, constructs or operates any telecommunications system, in each case by reason of the nature or type of the business subject to regulation and not pursuant to laws and regulations of general applicability to Persons conducting business in such state.
PUC
     "" means the repayment of all principal of, all accrued interest on, and all premiums, fees and other amounts owing in respect of (a) the 9.44% Sinking Fund Debentures due 2009, the 9.55% Sinking Fund Debentures due 2009 and the 9.14% Sinking Fund Debentures due 2011, in each case issued by Alltel New York, Inc. (formerly Midstate Telephone Corporation), (b) the 8.05% Senior Notes (Series A) due 2009 and the 8.17% Senior Notes (Series B) due 2014, in each case issued by Georgia Alltel Telecom, Inc., (c) the 9.07% Sinking Fund Debentures due 2011 issued by Alltel Pennsylvania, Inc. (formerly Mid-Penn Telephone Corporation), (d) the 8.11% Senior Notes due 2018 issued by Texas Alltel, Inc., (e) the 8.05% Senior Notes (Series A) due 2009 and the 8.17% Senior Notes (Series B) due 2014, in each case issued by The Western
Refinancings
Table of Contents
Reserve Telephone Company, (f) the Valor 2005 Credit Facility and (g) the Tendered Valor Bonds, and the termination and release of all Guarantees of and all Liens securing any of the foregoing.
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04(b).
Register
     "" means Valor's Registration Statement on Form S-4, as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2006, as amended to the Effective Date.
Registration Statement
     "" means any Governmental Authorization of the FCC or any PUC.
Regulatory Authorization
     "" means any Net Proceeds of an asset disposition of, or casualty event with respect to, non-current assets that are not otherwise required to be applied to prepay Loans pursuant to Section 2.10(b) or (c).
Reinvestment Funds
     "" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means (a) non-current assets (including any such assets acquired by capital expenditures) that will be used or useful in a Permitted Business or (b) substantially all the assets of a Permitted Business or the voting stock of any Person engaged in a Permitted Business that will become on the date of Acquisition thereof a Collateral Support Party.
Replacement Assets
     "" means, at any time, Lenders (other than Defaulting Lenders) having Revolving Credit Exposures, outstanding Term Loans and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures, outstanding Term Loans and unused Commitments at such time (excluding any Revolving Credit Exposures, outstanding Term Loans and unused Commitments of Defaulting Lenders).
Required Lenders
     "" means, at any time, Lenders (other than Defaulting Lenders) having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Revolving Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Revolving Commitments at such time (excluding any Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Revolving Commitments of Defaulting Lenders).
Required Revolving Lenders
     "" means, at any time, Lenders (other than Defaulting Lenders) having outstanding Tranche C Term Loans or unused Tranche C Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total outstanding Tranche C Term Loans or unused Tranche C Commitments at such
Required Tranche C Lenders
Table of Contents
time (excluding any outstanding Tranche C Term Loans and unused Tranche C Commitments of Defaulting Lenders).
     "" means, with respect to any Person, (a) the charter, articles or certificate of organization or incorporation and bylaws or other organizational or governing documents of such Person and (b) any statute, law, treaty, rule, regulation, order, decree, writ, injunction or determination of any arbitrator or court or other Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.
Requirement of Law
     "" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or any vice president of the Borrower or any other Financial Officer.
Responsible Officer
     "" means the New Notes, the Assumed Bonds and any Permitted Additional Debt.
Restricted Indebtedness
     "" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any Equity Interests in any Wireline Company, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such Equity Interests in any Wireline Company, or any other payment (including, without limitation, any payment under a Swap Agreement) that has a substantially similar effect to any of the foregoing.
Restricted Payment
     "" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Revolving Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Revolving Commitments.
Revolving Availability Period
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.07 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Revolving Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Revolving Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Revolving Commitments is $500,000,000.
Revolving Commitment
     "" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans and its LC Exposure at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
Table of Contents
     "" means a Lender with a Revolving Commitment or, if the Revolving Commitments have terminated or expired, a Lender with a Revolving Credit Exposure.
Revolving Lender
     "" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.01(a)(iv).
Revolving Loan
     "" means July 17, 2011.
Revolving Maturity Date
     "" means, with respect to any Revolving Lender, the percentage of the total Revolving Commitments represented by such Lender's Revolving Commitments. If the Revolving Commitments have terminated or expired, the Revolving Percentages shall be determined based upon the Revolving Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments that occur after such termination or expiration.
Revolving Percentage
     "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, Inc.
S&P
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.06.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 1(c) of the Security Agreement.
Secured Obligations
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 1(c) of the Security Agreement.
Secured Parties
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
     "" means the Security Agreement among the Loan Parties and the Collateral Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit D.
Security Agreement
     "" means the Guarantee Agreement, the Security Agreement and each other agreement, instrument or other document executed and delivered pursuant to Section 5.10 or 5.11 to guarantee or secure any of the Secured Obligations.
Security Documents
     "" means a cash dividend paid by the Borrower to Alltel in an amount not to exceed $2,275,000,000.
Special Dividend
     "" shall mean dividends declared by Valor prior to the Effective Date and paid by the Borrower thereafter in an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000.
Special Stub Dividend
Table of Contents
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04(e).
SPV
     "" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal carried to the sixth decimal place), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve, liquid asset or similar requirement percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves or other requirements) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve, liquid asset or similar requirement.
Statutory Reserve Rate
     "" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held.
subsidiary
parent
     "" means any subsidiary of the Borrower. For purposes of the representations and warranties made herein on the Effective Date, the term "" includes the Contributed Subsidiaries and each of Valor and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
Subsidiary
     "" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions; that no phantom stock or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of the Borrower or the Subsidiaries shall be a Swap Agreement.
Swap Agreement
provided
Table of Contents
     "" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, in its capacity as syndication agent.
Syndication Agent
     "" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Taxes
     "" means the Valor Bonds tendered for repurchase pursuant to a "Change of Control Offer" in accordance with Section 4.14 of the Valor Indenture.
Tendered Valor Bonds
     "" means a Tranche A Commitment, Tranche B Commitment or Tranche C Commitment, or any combination thereof (as the context may require).
Term Commitment
     "" means a Tranche A Lender, Tranche B Lender or Tranche C Lender.
Term Lender
     "" means a Tranche A Term Loan, Tranche B Term Loan or Tranche C Term Loan, or any combination thereof (as the context may require).
Term Loans
     "" means the total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, as shown on the most recent balance sheet of the Borrower prepared in conformity with GAAP but excluding the value of any outstanding Investments made pursuant to Section 6.04(t).
Total Assets
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment, if any, of such Lender to make a Tranche A Term Loan on the Effective Date, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Tranche A Term Loan, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.07 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Tranche A Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its initial Tranche A Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Tranche A Commitments is $500,000,000.
Tranche A Commitment
     "" means a Lender with a Tranche A Commitment or, if the Tranche A Commitments have terminated or expired, a Lender with an outstanding Tranche A Term Loan.
Tranche A Lender
     "" means July 17, 2011.
Tranche A Maturity Date
     "" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.01(a)(i).
Tranche A Term Loan
Table of Contents
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment, if any, of such Lender to make a Tranche B Term Loan on the Effective Date, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Tranche B Term Loan, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.07 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Tranche B Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its initial Tranche B Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Tranche B Commitments is $1,900,000,000.
Tranche B Commitment
     "" means a Lender with a Tranche B Commitment or, if the Tranche B Commitments have terminated or expired, a Lender with an outstanding Tranche B Term Loan.
Tranche B Lender
     "" means July 17, 2013.
Tranche B Maturity Date
     "" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.01(a)(ii).
Tranche B Term Loan
     "" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Tranche C Commitment Termination Date and the date of termination of the Tranche C Commitments.
Tranche C Availability Period
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment, if any, of such Lender to make a Tranche C Term Loan during the Tranche C Availability Period, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Tranche C Term Loan, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.07 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Tranche C Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its initial Tranche C Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Tranche C Commitments is $400,000,000.
Tranche C Commitment
     "" means November 17, 2006.
Tranche C Commitment Termination Date
     "" means a Lender with a Tranche C Commitment or, if the Tranche C Commitments have terminated or expired, a Lender with an outstanding Tranche C Term Loan.
Tranche C Lender
     "" means July 17, 2011.
Tranche C Maturity Date
Table of Contents
     "" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.01(a)(iii).
Tranche C Term Loan
     "" means (a) the Preliminary Restructuring, (b) the Contribution (including the payment of the Special Dividend and the issuance of the 2016 Notes), (c) the execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of the Loan Documents and the funding of the Loans, the use of proceeds thereof and the issuance of Letters of Credit thereunder, (d) the issuance and sale of the 2013 Notes, (e) the Distribution, (f) the Merger, (g) the Refinancings, (h) the Debt Exchange (if any) and the resale of the 2016 Notes, and (i) the payment of the fees and expenses incurred in connection with any of the foregoing.
Transactions
     "" means (a) the Merger Agreement, the Distribution Agreement, the Voting Agreement and the other "Transaction Agreements" referred to in the Merger Agreement and the Distribution Agreement, (b) the New Notes Documents, (c) the Loan Documents, and (d) the indentures and agreements under which any of the Assumed Bonds were issued and all other instruments, agreements and other documents evidencing or governing any of the Assumed Bonds or providing for any Guarantee or other right in respect thereof.
Transaction Documents
     "" means the Liens on Collateral granted by the Loan Parties under the Security Documents.
Transaction Liens
     "", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
     "" means the United States of America.
United States
     "" means Valor Communications Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Valor
     "" means the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of February 14, 2005 among Valor Telecommunications Enterprises, LLC, as borrower, Valor and certain of its domestic subsidiaries, as guarantors, the lenders party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly known as JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association), and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Syndication Agents, CIBC World Markets Corp. and Wachovia Bank, N.A., as Documentation Agents, Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as Sole and Exclusive Lead Arrangers, and Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Sole and Exclusive
Valor 2005 Credit Facility
Table of Contents
Book Managers, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of August 9, 2005 and as further amended prior to the Effective Date.
     "" means the 7-3/4% Senior Notes due 2015 issued by Valor Telecommunications Enterprises, LLC and Valor Telecommunications Enterprises Finance Corp. in an original aggregate principal amount not to exceed $400,000,000.
Valor Bonds
     "" means the Indenture dated as of February 14, 2005 under which the Valor Bonds were issued.
Valor Indenture
     "" means the Voting Agreement dated as of December 8, 2005 among the Borrower and certain shareholders of Valor.
Voting Agreement
     "" of any Person as of any date means the Equity Interests in such Person that are ordinarily entitled to vote in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
     "" means, when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing:
Weighted Average Life to Maturity
     (a) the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (i) the amount of each then remaining installment, sinking fund, serial maturity or other required payments of principal, including payment at final maturity, in respect thereof, by (ii) the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth) that will elapse between such date and the making of such payment; by
     (b) the then outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness.
     "" means, with respect to any subsidiary of any Person (the "") at any date, that securities or other ownership interests representing 100% of the Equity Interests in such subsidiary (other than directors' qualifying shares) are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held by the parent or one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries of the parent.
wholly-owned
parent
     "" means the Borrower and the Subsidiaries.
Wireline Companies
     "" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
      For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "") or by Type (, a "") or by Class and Type (, a ""). Borrowings also may be classified and
Section 1.02.
Classification of Loans and Borrowings.
e.g.
Revolving Loan
e.g.
Eurodollar Loan
e.g.
Eurodollar Revolving Loan
Table of Contents
referred to by Class (, a "") or by Type (, a "") or by Class and Type (, a "").
e.g.
Revolving Borrowing
e.g.
Eurodollar Borrowing
e.g.
Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing
      The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "", "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "". The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "", "" and "", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement, (e) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights and whether real, personal or mixed and (f) any reference to any Requirement of Law shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such Requirement of Law as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time.
Section 1.03.
Terms Generally.
include
includes
including
without limitation
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
      Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision (including any definition) hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith. Upon any such request for an amendment, the Borrower, the Required Lenders and the Administrative Agent agree to consider in good faith any such amendment in order to amend the provisions of this Agreement so as to reflect equitably such accounting changes so that the criteria for evaluating Borrower's financial
Section 1.04.
Accounting Terms; GAAP.
provided
Table of Contents
condition shall be the same after such accounting changes as if such accounting changes had not occurred.
      With respect to any period (i) during which any Permitted Acquisition, Permitted Asset Exchange or sale, transfer or other disposition of any Subsidiary, line of business or division occurs or (ii) as to which fewer than four full Fiscal Quarters have elapsed since the Effective Date, calculations of the Leverage Ratio and the Interest Coverage Ratio with respect to such period shall be made on a Pro Forma Basis.
Section 1.05.
Pro Forma Calculations.
      Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein:
Section 2.01. (a)
Loans.
Commitments.
     (i) each Tranche A Lender agrees to make a Tranche A Term Loan to the Borrower on the Effective Date in a principal amount not exceeding its Tranche A Commitment;
     (ii) each Tranche B Lender agrees to make a Tranche B Term Loan to the Borrower on the Effective Date in a principal amount not exceeding its Tranche B Commitment;
     (iii) each Tranche C Lender agrees to make a Tranche C Term Loan to the Borrower during the Tranche C Availability Period in a principal amount not exceeding its Tranche C Commitment; and
     (iv) each Revolving Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Revolving Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Revolving Commitment.
     (b) . (i) At any time and from time to time prior to the Tranche B Maturity Date, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (whereupon the Administrative Agent shall promptly deliver a copy to each of the Lenders), request to add one or more additional tranches of loans ("" and each such tranche, an ""), that at the time of each such request and upon the effectiveness of each Incremental Facility Amendment, (A) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or shall result therefrom, (B) the Borrower shall be in compliance on a Pro Forma Basis with the covenants contained in Sections 6.14 and 6.15 recomputed as of the last
Incremental Loan Facility
Incremental Loans
Incremental Facility
provided
Table of Contents
day of the most-recently ended Fiscal Quarter for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b), and (C) the Borrower shall have delivered a certificate of a Financial Officer to the effect set forth in clauses (A) and (B) above, together with reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with clause (B) above. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the aggregate principal amount of all commitments, loans and other extensions of credit made available under the Incremental Facilities since the Effective Date shall not exceed $800,000,000. Each Incremental Facility shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $5,000,000 and not less than $50,000,000, that an Incremental Facility may be in any amount less than $50,000,000 if such amount represents all the remaining availability under the Incremental Facilities pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence.
provided
     (ii) The Incremental Loans shall rank or junior in right of payment in respect of the Collateral and with the obligations in respect of the Revolving Commitments, the Tranche A Term Loans, the Tranche B Term Loans and the Tranche C Term Loans, if any. In addition, (A) any Incremental Facility providing for term loans shall (1) not have a final maturity date earlier than the Tranche B Maturity Date or a Weighted Average Life to Maturity that is shorter than the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of the then-remaining Tranche B Term Loans, (2) for purposes of prepayments, be treated substantially the same as (and in any event no more favorably than) the Tranche B Term Loans and (3) otherwise have terms that are no more favorable to the lenders providing such Incremental Facility than the terms applicable to the Tranche B Term Loans, that (x) if the Applicable Rate relating to the loans under any Incremental Facility exceeds the Applicable Rate relating to the Tranche B Term Loans by more than 0.25%, the Applicable Rate relating to the Tranche B Term Loans shall be adjusted to be equal to the Applicable Rate relating to such Incremental Loans and (y) any determination of the Applicable Rate relating to Incremental Loans or Tranche B Term Loans under the foregoing clause (x) shall include all upfront or similar fees or original issue discount payable to the Lenders providing such Loans) and (B) any Incremental Facility providing for revolving loans shall (1) not have a final maturity date, or a commitment availability period that ends, earlier than the Revolving Maturity Date and (2) be subject to other terms that are similar to the terms then available in the bank financing market to companies having a credit quality similar to the Borrower.
pari passu
provided
     (iii) Each notice from the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.01(b) shall set forth the requested amount and proposed terms of the relevant Incremental Facility. Any bank, financial institution or other Person (whether or not an existing Lender or Affiliate of an existing Lender) that elects to provide any Incremental Facility (each, an
Table of Contents
"") shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower and (other than in the case of existing Lenders providing only term loans under such Incremental Facility) the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent; that no existing Lender shall be obligated to provide any Incremental Loans, unless it so agrees. Any Incremental Facility will be effected pursuant to an amendment (an "") to this Agreement and, as appropriate, the other Loan Documents, executed by the Borrower, the Incremental Lenders providing such Incremental Facility (and no other Lenders) and the Administrative Agent. Upon the effectiveness of any Incremental Facility Amendment, each Incremental Lender shall become a "Lender" under this Agreement with respect to its obligations under such Incremental Facility, and the commitments of the Incremental Lenders in respect of such Incremental Facility shall become "Commitments" hereunder; and any Incremental Loans under such Incremental Facility shall, when made, constitute "Loans" under this Agreement. In addition, any Incremental Facility Amendment may, without the consent of any Lenders other than the Incremental Lenders, effect such amendments to any Loan Documents as may be necessary or appropriate, in the opinion of the Administrative Agent, to effect the provisions of this Section 2.01(b) (including to provide for voting provisions applicable to the Incremental Lenders comparable to the provisions of clause (B) of the second proviso of Section 9.02(b)). The effectiveness of an Incremental Facility Amendment shall, unless otherwise agreed to by the Administrative Agent and the Incremental Lenders, be subject to the satisfaction on the date thereof (an "") of each of the conditions set forth in Section 4.02 (it being understood that all references to "the date of such Borrowing" in Section 4.02 shall be deemed to refer to the Incremental Facility Closing Date). The proceeds of Incremental Loans will be used only for working capital and other general corporate purposes (including to finance Permitted Acquisitions or Capital Expenditures, in each case to the extent otherwise permitted hereunder).
Incremental Lender
provided
Incremental Facility Amendment
Incremental Facility Closing Date
Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans. Amounts repaid or prepaid in respect of Term Loans may not be reborrowed.
      (a) Each Revolving Loan and Term Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Loans of the same Class and Type made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments of the applicable Class. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
Section 2.02.
Loans and Borrowings.
provided
Table of Contents
     (b) Subject to Section 2.13, (i) each Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
provided
     (c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000. At the time that each ABR Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $1,000,000; that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Revolving Commitments or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.04(e). Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of 20 Eurodollar Borrowings outstanding (or, if any Incremental Loans are outstanding, 30).
provided
provided
     (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect to the applicable Loan would end after the Revolving Maturity Date, Tranche A Maturity Date, Tranche B Maturity Date or Tranche C Maturity Date, as applicable.
      To request a Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing; that any such notice of an ABR Revolving Borrowing to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.04(e) may be given not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery, e-mail of a pdf copy or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
Section 2.03.
Requests for Borrowings.
provided
     (i) whether the requested Borrowing is to be a Revolving Borrowing, Tranche A Term Borrowing, Tranche B Term Borrowing or Tranche C Term Borrowing;
Table of Contents
     (ii) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
     (iii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
     (iv) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing;
     (v) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period";
     (vi) the location and number of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.05; and
     (vii) as of such date Sections 4.02(a) and (b) are satisfied.
If no election as to the Type of Borrowing is specified, then the requested Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the relevant Class of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
      (a) . (i) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit for its own account (or for the account of any Wireline Company so long as the Borrower and such Wireline Company are co-applicants), in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Bank requested to issue such Letter of Credit, at any time and from time to time during the Revolving Availability Period. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by the Borrower to, or entered into by the Borrower with, an Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control.
Section 2.04.
Letters of Credit.
General
     (ii) . Upon consummation of the Merger on the Effective Date and the satisfaction of the conditions in Section 4.02, in each case automatically and without further action on the part of any Person, (A) each Existing Letter of Credit will be deemed to be a Letter of Credit issued hereunder for all purposes of the Loan Documents, and (B) each Revolving Lender that has issued an Existing Letter of Credit shall be deemed to have granted to each other Revolving Lender, and each other Revolving Lender shall be deemed to have
Existing Letters of Credit
Table of Contents
acquired from such issuer, a participation in each Existing Letter of Credit equal to such other Revolving Lender's Revolving Percentage of (I) the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Existing Letter of Credit and (II) the aggregate amount of any outstanding LC Reimbursement Obligations in respect thereof. With respect to each Existing Letter of Credit (x) if, prior to the Effective Date, the relevant issuer has heretofore sold a participation therein to a Revolving Lender, such issuer and Revolving Lender agree that such participation shall be automatically canceled upon consummation of the Merger on the Effective Date, and (y) if, prior to the Effective Date, the relevant issuer has heretofore sold a participation therein to any bank or financial institution that is not a Revolving Lender, such issuer shall procure the termination of such participation on or prior to the Effective Date.
     (b) . To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Borrower shall hand deliver, e-mail or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the Issuing Bank requested to issue such Letter of Credit) to such Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent (reasonably in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by the Issuing Bank requested to issue such Letter of Credit, the Borrower also shall submit a letter of credit application on such Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (i) the LC Exposure shall not exceed $30,000,000 and (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures shall not exceed the total Revolving Commitments. Promptly upon the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or amendment, renewal, extension or termination of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Issuing Bank shall provide notice of such issuance, amendment, renewal, extension or termination to the Administrative Agent (if different from the Issuing Bank), who shall in turn promptly provide notice of same to the Revolving Lenders.
Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions
     (c) . Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of the
Expiration Date
Table of Contents
issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension) and (ii) the date that is five Business Days prior to the Revolving Maturity Date; that (x) any Letter of Credit may provide for the automatic extension or renewal thereof and may be automatically renewed or extended upon notice delivered by the Borrower in accordance with the terms thereof for additional periods of a duration requested by the Borrower (which shall in no event extend beyond the date referred to in clause (ii) above) and (y) with the consent of the applicable Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent, Letters of Credit with a term longer than one year shall be permitted (which shall in no event extend beyond the date referred to in clause (ii) above).
provided
     (d) . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the Issuing Bank thereof or any of the Lenders, such Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Revolving Lender, and each Revolving Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Revolving Percentage of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Revolving Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, such Lender's Revolving Percentage of each LC Disbursement made by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. Each Revolving Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
Participations
     (e) . If any Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to such LC Disbursement not later than 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date that such LC Disbursement is made, if the Borrower shall have received notice of such LC Disbursement prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date, or, if such notice has not been received by the Borrower prior to such time on such date, then not later than 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on (i) the Business Day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is received prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the day of receipt, or (ii) the Business Day immediately following the day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is not received prior to such time on the day of receipt; that ,if
Reimbursement
provided
Table of Contents
such LC Disbursement is not less than $1,000,000, the Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with Section 2.03 that such payment be financed with an ABR Revolving Borrowing in an equivalent amount and, to the extent so financed, the Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR Revolving Borrowing. If the Borrower fails to make such payment when due (or if any such reimbursement payment is required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason), the Administrative Agent shall notify each Revolving Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the payment then due from the Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Revolving Percentage thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Revolving Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent its Revolving Percentage of the payment then due from the Borrower, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.05 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.05 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Revolving Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the applicable Issuing Bank the amounts so received by it from the Revolving Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the applicable Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Revolving Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse such Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders and such Issuing Bank as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a Revolving Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse an Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement (other than the funding of ABR Revolving Loans as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement.
mutatis mutandis
     (f) . Except as provided below, the Borrower's obligation to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by the applicable Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, the Borrower's obligations hereunder. Neither the Administrative Agent, the Lenders nor any Issuing Bank, nor any of their Related Parties, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the
Obligations Absolute
Table of Contents
circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of the applicable Issuing Bank; that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse any Issuing Bank from liability to the Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by the Borrower that (i) are caused by such Issuing Bank's gross negligence or willful misconduct in determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit issued by it comply with the terms thereof, or (ii) result from such Issuing Bank's willful or grossly negligent failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of such Letter of Credit. The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of an Issuing Bank (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), such Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, the Issuing Bank thereof may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit, and any such acceptance or refusal shall be deemed not to constitute gross negligence or willful misconduct.
provided
     (g) . Each Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit issued by it. Such Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such demand for payment and whether the Issuing Bank has made or will make an LC Disbursement thereunder; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such Issuing Bank and the Revolving Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement in accordance with paragraph (e) of this Section.
Disbursement Procedures
provided
     (h) . If any Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that the Borrower reimburses such LC
Interim Interest
Table of Contents
Disbursement, at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans; that, if the Borrower fails to reimburse such LC Disbursement when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, then Section 2.12(c) shall apply. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Revolving Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section to reimburse such Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment.
provided
     (i) . Any Issuing Bank may be replaced at any time by written agreement among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the successor Issuing Bank. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of any such replacement of an Issuing Bank. At the time any such replacement shall become effective, the Borrower shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the replaced Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.11(b). From and after the effective date of any such replacement, (i) the successor Issuing Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit to be issued thereafter and (ii) references herein to the term "Issuing Bank" shall be deemed to refer to such successor or to any previous Issuing Bank, or to such successor and all previous Issuing Banks, as the context shall require. After the replacement of an Issuing Bank hereunder, the replaced Issuing Bank shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such replacement, but shall not be required to issue additional Letters of Credit.
Replacement of an Issuing Bank
     (j) . If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Borrower receives notice from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders (or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total LC Exposure) demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall deposit in its Cash Collateral Account an amount in cash equal to the LC Exposure as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of Article 7. Such deposit shall be held by the Collateral Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the Secured Obligations. Moneys in such account (including any earnings on amounts therein) shall be applied by the Collateral Agent to pay LC Reimbursement Obligations as they become due or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated (but subject to the consent of Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total LC Exposure), be applied to satisfy the Secured Obligations as provided in Section 13 of the Security Agreement. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash
Cash Collateralization
provided
Table of Contents
collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned (together with any earnings thereon) to the Borrower within three Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived.
      (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City and designated by the Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request; that ABR Revolving Loans made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.04(e) shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the applicable Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Revolving Lenders have made payments pursuant to Section 2.04(e) to reimburse such Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders and the applicable Issuing Bank as their interests may appear.
Section 2.05
. Funding of Borrowings.
provided
     (b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to ABR Loans. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
      (a) Each Revolving Borrowing and Term Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request or designated by Section 2.03 and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request or designated by Section 2.03. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a
Section 2.06
. Interest Elections.
Table of Contents
Eurodollar Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing.
     (b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery, e-mail of a pdf copy or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower.
     (c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
     (i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
     (ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
     (iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
     (iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
     (d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the relevant Class of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
Table of Contents
     (e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower (or, in the case of an Event of Default of the type described in paragraph (h) or (i) of Article 7 with respect to the Borrower, automatically), then, so long as an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, no outstanding Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing having an Interest Period longer than one month; that, if (x) an Event of Default of the type described in paragraph (a), (b), (h) or (i) of Article 7 has occurred and is continuing and (y) other than in the case of an Event of Default of the type described in paragraph (h) or (i) of Article 7 with respect to the Borrower, the Required Lenders have so requested, then (i) no outstanding Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid prior to or at the end of the Interest Period then applicable thereto, each Eurodollar Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of such Interest Period.
provided
      (a) Unless previously terminated, (i) the Tranche A Commitments and Tranche B Commitments shall terminate on the Effective Date immediately after the funding and closing hereunder, (ii) the Tranche C Commitments shall terminate on the Tranche C Commitment Termination Date and (iii) the Revolving Commitments shall terminate on the Revolving Maturity Date.
Section 2.07
. Termination and Reduction of Commitments.
     (b) The Borrower may at any time, without premium or penalty, terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments of any Class; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments of any Class shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $1,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Revolving Commitments to the extent, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Revolving Loans in accordance with Section 2.10, the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Revolving Commitments.
provided
     (c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Revolving Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the occurrence or non-occurrence of any event specified therein
provided
Table of Contents
(including the consummation of an acquisition, sale or other similar transaction, or the receipt of proceeds from the incurrence or issuance of Indebtedness or Equity Interests or the effectiveness of other credit facilities), in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments of any Class shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments of any Class shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments of such Class.
      (a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent (i) for the account of each Revolving Lender the then unpaid principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans on the Revolving Maturity Date and (ii) for the account of each Term Lender the then unpaid principal amount of such Lender's Term Loans as provided in Section 2.09.
Section 2.08
. Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.
     (b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
     (c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
     (d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be, absent manifest error, evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima facie
provided
     (e) Any Lender may request that Loans of any Class made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent; that, in order for any such promissory note to be delivered on the Effective Date, the request therefor shall be delivered no later than two Business Days prior to the Effective Date. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be
provided
Table of Contents
represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
      (a) Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 2.09(e), the Borrower shall repay Tranche A Term Loans on each date set forth below in the aggregate principal amount equal to the percentage set forth opposite such date the initial principal amount of Tranche A Term Loans:
Section 2.09
. Scheduled Amortization of Term Loans.
times
     (b) Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 2.09(e), the Borrower shall repay Tranche B Term Loans (i) on the last day of each Fiscal Quarter ending on or after September 30, 2007 and prior to the Tranche B Maturity Date in an aggregate principal amount equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of Tranche B Term Loans and (ii) on the Tranche B Maturity Date in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Tranche B Term Loans then outstanding.
     (c) Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 2.09(e), the Borrower shall repay Tranche C Term Loans on each date set forth below in the aggregate principal amount equal to the percentage set forth opposite such date the initial principal amount of Tranche C Term Loans:
times
     (d) To the extent not previously paid, (i) all Tranche A Term Loans shall be due and payable on the Tranche A Maturity Date, (ii) all Tranche B Term
Table of Contents
Loans shall be due and payable on the Tranche B Maturity Date and (iii) all Tranche C Term Loans shall be due and payable on the Tranche C Maturity Date.
     (e) Any prepayment of Term Loans of any Class will be applied to reduce the subsequent scheduled repayments of the Term Loans of such Class to be made pursuant to this Section, in the case of mandatory prepayments, in direct order of maturity, and in the case of voluntary prepayments, ratably. If the aggregate amount of the Term Loans of any Class made on the Effective Date is less than the initial aggregate amount of the Term Commitments of such Class, the scheduled repayments of the Term Loans of such Class shall be reduced ratably to an aggregate amount equal to the aggregate amount of such Term Loans actually made.
     (f) Before repaying any Term Loans of any Class pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall select the Borrowing or Borrowings of the applicable Class to be repaid and shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such selection not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the scheduled date of such repayment. Each such repayment of a Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in such Borrowing and shall be accompanied by accrued interest on the amount repaid.
      (a) . The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part without premium or penalty but subject to Section 2.15 and the requirements of this Section.
Section 2.10
. Optional and Mandatory Prepayment of Loans.
Optional Prepayments
     (b) . Within five Business Days after any Net Proceeds are received by or on behalf of any Wireline Company in respect of any Asset Disposition, the Borrower shall (subject to paragraph (h) of this Section) prepay Term Borrowings in an aggregate amount equal to such Net Proceeds; that, if the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of a Financial Officer to the effect that (i) the Wireline Companies intend to apply the Net Proceeds from such Asset Disposition (or a portion thereof specified in such certificate), within 365 days after receipt of such Net Proceeds, to acquire Replacement Assets, (ii) the property acquired in connection therewith will be included in the Collateral at least to the extent that the property disposed of was included therein or shall be property of a Collateral Support Party and (iii) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, then no prepayment will be required pursuant to this subsection in respect of such Net Proceeds (or the portion of such Net Proceeds specified in such certificate, if applicable) except that, if any such Net Proceeds have not been so applied (or committed to be applied, except to the extent such Net Proceeds are not so applied within 365 days after such commitment) by the end of such 365-day period, a prepayment will be
Asset Dispositions
provided
Table of Contents
required at that time in an amount equal to the amount of such Net Proceeds that have not been so applied or committed to be so applied.
     (c) . Within five Business Days after any Net Proceeds are received by or on behalf of any Wireline Company in respect of any Casualty Event, the Borrower shall (subject to paragraph (h) of this Section) prepay Term Borrowings in an aggregate amount equal to such Net Proceeds; that, if the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of a Financial Officer to the effect that (i) the Wireline Companies intend to apply the Net Proceeds from such event (or a portion thereof specified in such certificate), within 365 days after receipt of such Net Proceeds, to repair, restore or replace the property with respect to which such Net Proceeds were received or to acquire Replacement Assets, and (ii) any property acquired in connection with such application (whether as replacement property or Replacement Assets) will be included in the Collateral at least to the extent that the property to be replaced was included therein or shall be property of a Collateral Support Party, then no prepayment will be required pursuant to this subsection in respect of such Net Proceeds (or the portion of such Net Proceeds specified in such certificate, if applicable) except that, if any such Net Proceeds have not been so applied (or committed to be applied, except to the extent such Net Proceeds are not so applied within 365 days after such commitment) by the end of such 365-day period, a prepayment will be required at that time in an amount equal to the amount of such Net Proceeds that have not been so applied or committed to be so applied.
Casualty Events
provided
     (d) . Before any optional or mandatory prepayment of Borrowings hereunder, the Borrower shall select the Borrowing or Borrowings to be prepaid and shall specify such selection in the notice of such prepayment pursuant to paragraph (g) of this Section. In the event of any optional or mandatory prepayment of Term Borrowings made at a time when Term Borrowings of more than one Class remain outstanding, the Borrower shall select Term Borrowings to be prepaid so that the aggregate amount of such prepayment is allocated among the Term Borrowings of each Class pro rata based on the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Borrowings of each such Class, that any Tranche B Lender may elect, by notice to the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) at least one Business Day prior to the prepayment date, to decline all or any portion of any prepayment of its Tranche B Term Loans pursuant to this Section (other than an optional prepayment pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, which may not be declined), in which case the aggregate amount of the prepayment that would have been applied to prepay Tranche B Term Loans of any such Class but was so declined shall be applied to prepay Term Borrowings of the other Classes until no Term Borrowings of any other Class remain outstanding. Any excess Net Proceeds after application to such other Classes shall be applied to prepay any outstanding Tranche B Term Loans.
Allocation of Prepayments, Right to Decline Tranche B Mandatory Prepayments
provided
Table of Contents
     (e) . Each prepayment of a Borrowing shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.12.
Accrued Interest
     (f) . The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment or (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid and, in the case of a mandatory prepayment, a reasonably detailed calculation of the amount of such prepayment; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Revolving Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.07, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.07; further that, the Borrower may deliver a conditional prepayment notice subject to the proviso in Section 2.07(c). Promptly following receipt of any such notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof.
Notice of Prepayments
provided
provided
     (g) . Each partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02, except as needed to apply fully the required amount of a mandatory prepayment or to allocate an optional prepayment of Term Loans as required by paragraph (d) of this Section. Each prepayment of a Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.12.
Partial Prepayments
     (h) The Borrower may defer any mandatory prepayment otherwise required under paragraph (b) or (c) above until the aggregate amount of Net Proceeds otherwise required to be applied to prepay Borrowings pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) above (whether resulting from one or more Asset Dispositions or Casualty Events, but after giving effect to any applications of proceeds permitted under such paragraphs) equals or exceeds $30,000,000, at which time the entire unutilized amount of such Net Proceeds (not only the amount in excess of $30,000,000) will be applied as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) above, as applicable.
Deferral of Prepayments.
      (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Revolving Lender and each Tranche C Lender (in each case, other than a Defaulting Lender) a commitment fee, which shall accrue at the Commitment Fee Rate on the average daily unused amount of the Revolving Commitment of such Revolving Lender and the Tranche C
Section 2.11
. Fees.
Table of Contents
Commitment of such Tranche C Lender during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates. Accrued commitment fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Commitments of the relevant Class terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof. All commitment fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
     (b) The Borrower agrees to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Revolving Lender (other than a Defaulting Lender) a participation fee with respect to its participations in Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at the same Applicable Rate used to determine the interest rate applicable to Eurodollar Revolving Loans on the average daily amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which such Lender's Revolving Commitment terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure, and (ii) to each Issuing Bank a fronting fee, which shall accrue at the rate of 0.25% per annum on the average daily amount of the LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) with respect to each Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date of termination of the Revolving Commitments and the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, as well as such Issuing Bank's standard fees with respect to the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder. Participation fees and fronting fees accrued through and including the last day of March, June, September and December of each year shall be payable on the third Business Day following such last day, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Effective Date; that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Revolving Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Revolving Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. Any other fees payable to any Issuing Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable within 10 days after demand. All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
provided
     (c) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account and the account of the Collateral Agent, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Borrower such Agents.
     (d) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent (or to each Issuing
Table of Contents
Bank, in the case of fees payable to it) for distribution, in the case of commitment fees and participation fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
      (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing of each Class shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate for such Class.
Section 2.12
. Interest.
     (b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing of each Class shall bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate for such Class.
     (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of any principal of any Loan or any LC Disbursements, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan or LC Disbursement as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other overdue amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
     (d) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and, in the case of Revolving Loans, upon termination of the Revolving Commitments; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Revolving Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
     (e) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate or Adjusted LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
      If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing:
Section 2.13
. Alternate Rate of Interest.
Table of Contents
     (a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period; or
     (b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Borrowing to, or continuation of any Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be ineffective and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing.
      (a) Except with respect to Taxes, which shall be governed by Section 2.16, if any Change in Law shall:
Section 2.14
. Increased Costs.
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate) or any Issuing Bank; or
     (ii) impose on any Lender or any Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to such Lender or Issuing Bank of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or Issuing Bank hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
     (b) If any Lender or any Issuing Bank determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by,
Table of Contents
such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
     (c) A certificate of a Lender or an Issuing Bank setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or the Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 Business Days after receipt thereof.
     (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or an Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided further
      In the event of (a) the payment by or on behalf of the Borrower of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (c) the failure by the Borrower to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurodollar Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.10(f) and is revoked in accordance therewith), or (d) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.18 or Section 9.02(c), then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurodollar Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would
Section 2.15
. Break Funding Payments.
Table of Contents
have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
      (a) Except as required by applicable law, any and all payments by or with respect to any obligation of the Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if the Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) any Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Section 2.16
. Taxes.
provided
     (b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
     (c) To the extent not paid by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.16(a), the Borrower shall indemnify each Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Bank, within 10 Business Days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by such Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or with respect to any obligation of the Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A copy of a receipt or any other document evidencing payment that is reasonably acceptable to Borrower as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by, an Agent, a Lender or an Issuing Bank, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of an Agent, a Lender or an Issuing Bank, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Table of Contents
     (d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
     (e) (i) Each Recipient that is a U.S. person as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and if applicable, the assigning Lender (or, in the case of a Participant, to the Lender from which the related participation shall have been purchased) on or before the date on which it becomes a party to this Agreement (or, in the case of (i) a Participant, on or before the date on which such Participant purchases the related participation and (ii) an assignee, on or before the effective date of such assignment), two duly completed and signed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9. Each Recipient that is not a U.S. person as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code (a "") shall, to the extent it is legally able to do so, deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and if applicable, the assigning Lender (or, in the case of a Participant, to the Lender from which the related participation shall have been purchased) on or before the date on which it becomes a party to this Agreement (or, in the case of (x) a Participant, on or before the date on which such Participant purchases the related participation and (y) an assignee, on or before the effective date of such assignment) either:
Foreign Recipient
     (A) two copies of a duly completed and signed Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI, Form W-8BEN (with respect to eligibility for benefits under any income tax treaty) or Form W-8IMY or successor and related applicable forms, as the case may be, certifying to such Foreign Recipient's entitlement as of such date to an exemption from or reduction of United States withholding tax with respect to payments to be made under this Agreement, or
     (B) in the case of a Foreign Recipient that is not a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code and that does not comply with the requirements of clause (A) hereof, (x) a statement in form and content reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower to the effect that such Foreign Recipient is eligible for a complete exemption from withholding of U.S. Taxes under Code section 871(h) or 881(c) (a ""), and (y) two duly completed and signed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or any successor and related applicable form.
Foreign Recipient Complete Exemption Certificate
Table of Contents
Further, each Foreign Recipient agrees, (i) to the extent it is not precluded from doing so by a Change in Law and otherwise legally able to do so, to deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and if applicable, the assigning Lender (or, in the case of a Participant, to the Lender from which the related participation shall have been purchased), from time to time, two copies of a duly completed and signed applicable Form W-8 or successor and related applicable forms or certificates, on or before the date that any such form or certificate, as the case may be, expires or becomes obsolete or invalid in accordance with applicable U.S. laws and regulations, (ii) in the case of a Foreign Recipient that delivers a Foreign Recipient Complete Exemption Certificate, to deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and if applicable, the assigning Lender (or, in the case of a Participant, to the Lender from which the related participation shall have been purchased), such statement on an annual basis reasonably promptly after the anniversary of the date on which such Foreign Recipient became a party to this Agreement (or, in the case of a Participant, the date on which the Participant purchased the related participation), and (iii) to notify promptly the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (or, in the case of a Participant, the Lender from which the related participation shall have been purchased) if it is no longer able to deliver, or if it is required to withdraw or cancel, any form or certificate previously delivered by it pursuant to this Section 2.16(e).
     (ii) In addition, but without duplication of the covenant as to United States withholding tax contained in Section 2.16(e)(i), any Recipient that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction(s) in which the Borrower is organized, or any treaty to which any such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate.
     (f) If any Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank determines, in its discretion exercised in good faith, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.16, it shall pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 2.16 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of such Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); that the Borrower, upon the request of such Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to such Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank in the event such
provided
Table of Contents
Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the any Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
      (a) The Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of LC Disbursements, or of amounts payable under Section 2.14, 2.15 or 2.16, or otherwise) no later than 2:00 pm, New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent to the applicable account designated to the Borrower, except payments to be made directly to an Issuing Bank as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to Section 2.14, 2.15 or 2.16 and Section 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto and payments made pursuant to other Loan Documents shall be made to the Persons specified therein. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in dollars.
Section 2.17
. Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs.
     (b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed LC Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder (after giving effect to all applicable grace periods and/or cure periods, if any), such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due to such parties.
     (c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such
Table of Contents
greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans and participations in LC Disbursements of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans and participations in LC Disbursements; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements to any assignee or participant, other than to any Wireline Company or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
     (d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of any of the Lenders or any Issuing Bank hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to such Lenders or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
     (e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.04(d) or (e), 2.05(a) or (b), 2.17(d) or 9.03(c), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
      (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for
Section 2.18
. Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
Table of Contents
the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.14 or 2.16, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
     (b) If (i) any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, or (ii) any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder (any Lender described in this clause (ii), a ""), then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent (and if a Revolving Commitment is being assigned, the Issuing Banks), which consents shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and funded participations in LC Disbursements, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts), (iii) the Borrower, the Defaulting Lender (if any) or such assignee shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the processing and recordation fee specified in Section 9.04(b) and (iv) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.14 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.16, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
Defaulting Lender
provided
     The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lender Parties that:
Table of Contents
      Each of the Wireline Companies is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required by applicable law.
Section 3.01
. Organization; Powers.
      The Transactions to be entered into by each Wireline Company are within its corporate (or other organizational) powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate (or other organizational) action with respect to such Wireline Company and, if required, stockholder action by the holders of such Wireline Company's Equity Interests. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitutes, and each other Loan Document to which any Loan Party is to be a party, when executed and delivered by such Loan Party, will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower or such Loan Party, as the case may be, in each case enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
Section 3.02
. Authorization; Enforceability.
      The Transactions (a) do not require any material Governmental Authorization, except (i) such as have been or prior to or concurrently with the consummation of the Transactions will be obtained or made and are or prior to or concurrently with the consummation of the Transactions will be in full force and effect, (ii) notices required to be filed with the FCC or any applicable PUC after the consummation of the Transactions and (iii) filings necessary to perfect the Transaction Liens, (b) will not violate (1) any applicable law or regulation applicable to any Wireline Company, (2) the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of any Wireline Company or (3) any material Governmental Authorization in any material respect, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon any Wireline Company or any of its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by any Wireline Company or give rise to a right of, or result in, termination, cancellation or acceleration of any obligation thereunder, except to the extent the holders of the Valor Bonds may require the repurchase thereof as a result of the "Change of Control" of Valor resulting from the Merger, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien (other than the Transaction Liens) on any asset of any Wireline Company, except, with respect to clauses (b)(1), (c) and (d), to the extent any of the foregoing could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.03
. Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts.
Table of Contents
      (a) (i) The Borrower has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (A) as of and for each of the Fiscal Years ended December 31, 2003, December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, reported on by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent public accountants, and (B) as of and for the Fiscal Quarter and the portion of the Fiscal Year ended March 31, 2006, certified by its chief financial officer. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP, subject to year end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes in the case of the statements referred to in clause (B) above.
Section 3.04
. Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change.
     (ii) Valor has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (A) as of and for each of the Fiscal Years ended December 31, 2003, December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, reported on by Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent public accountants, and (B) as of and for the Fiscal Quarter and the portion of the Fiscal Year ended March 31, 2006, certified by its chief financial officer. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of Valor and its consolidated subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP, subject to year end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes in the case of the statements referred to in clause (B) above.
     (b) The Borrower has heretofore furnished to the Lenders pro forma consolidated financial statements of the Borrower as of March 31, 2006 prepared on a Pro Forma Basis (the ""). The Pro Forma Financial Statements (i) have been prepared in good faith based on the same assumptions used to prepare the pro forma financial statements included in the Information Memorandum (which assumptions were at the time of the preparation of the Pro Forma Financial Statements believed by the Borrower to be reasonable), (ii) accurately reflect all adjustments reasonably believed by the Borrower to be necessary to give effect to the Transactions and (iii) present fairly, in all material respects, the pro forma financial position of the Borrower as of March 31, 2006 as if the Transactions had occurred on such date.
Pro Forma Financial Statements
     (c) Since, in the case of any determination to be made prior to the Merger, September 30, 2005, and, in the case of any other determination, December 31, 2005, there has been no state of facts, change, development, event, effect, condition or occurrence that, individually or in the aggregate, has had a Material Adverse Effect.
Table of Contents
      (a) Each of the Wireline Companies has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property material to its business, except for Liens permitted under Section 6.02, and minor defects in title that do not interfere with its ability to conduct its business as currently conducted and except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.05
. Properties.
     (b) Each of the Wireline Companies owns, or has the right to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by the Wireline Companies does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such failure to own or have license or such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
     (c) Schedule 3.05 sets forth the correct address of each material real property having a Fair Market Value (as reasonably determined by a Financial Officer in good faith) exceeding $10,000,000 that is owned by any Wireline Company as of the Effective Date after giving effect to the Transactions.
      (a) There are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened against or affecting any Wireline Company that (i) could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) involve any of the Loan Documents or the Transactions.
Section 3.06
. Litigation and Environmental Matters.
     (b) Except for the Disclosed Matters and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Borrower nor any other Wireline Company (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received written notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability.
     (c) Since the date of this Agreement, there has been no change in the status of the Disclosed Matters that, individually or in the aggregate, has resulted in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.
      Each of the Wireline Companies is in compliance with (a) all laws, regulations and Governmental Authorizations, in each case applicable to it or its property, (b) each of the Transaction Documents and (c) all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except, in each case, where the failure
Section 3.07
. Compliance with Laws and Agreements.
Table of Contents
to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing.
      No Wireline Company is required to be regulated as an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Section 3.08
. Investment and Holding Company Status.
      Each of the Wireline Companies has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the applicable Wireline Company has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. As of the Effective Date, the Tax Sharing Agreement (as defined in the Merger Agreement) is the only agreement among the Loan Parties regarding tax sharing, tax reimbursement or tax indemnification.
Section 3.09
. Taxes.
      No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.10
. ERISA.
      As of the Effective Date, the Borrower has disclosed to the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which any Wireline Company is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Information Memorandum nor any of the reports, financial statements, certificates or other information concerning any of the Wireline Companies (other than the projections, budgets or other estimates, or information of a general economic or industry nature concerning the Wireline Companies) furnished by or on behalf of any Loan Party to any Lender Party in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or delivered hereunder or thereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished), when taken as a whole, contains as of the date furnished any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not materially misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by it to be reasonable at the time they were made; it being understood that projections by their nature are uncertain and no assurance is being given that the results reflected in such projected financial information will be achieved.
Section 3.11
. Disclosure.
provided
Table of Contents
      Schedule 3.12 sets forth the name of, and the ownership interest of the Borrower in, each of its Subsidiaries and identifies each Subsidiary that is a Guarantor, in each case as of the Effective Date. All the Subsidiaries are, and will at all times be, fully consolidated in the Borrower's consolidated financial statements to the extent required by GAAP.
Section 3.12
. Subsidiaries.
      Schedule 3.13 sets forth a description of all material insurance maintained by or on behalf of the Wireline Companies as of the Effective Date. As of the Effective Date, all premiums in respect of such insurance have been paid to the extent then due.
Section 3.13
. Insurance.
      As of the Effective Date, there are no strikes, lockouts or slowdowns against any Wireline Company pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened. The hours worked by and payments made to employees of the Wireline Companies have not violated the Fair Labor Standards Act or any other applicable Federal, state, local or foreign law dealing with such matters, except where it would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. As of the Effective Date, there is no organizing activity involving the Borrower or any Subsidiary pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, threatened by any labor union or group of employees, except those that, in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. As of the Effective Date, there are no representation proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, threatened with the National Mediation Board, and no labor organization or group of employees of the Borrower or any Subsidiary has made a pending demand for recognition, except those that, in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There are no material complaints or charges against the Borrower or any Subsidiary pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, threatened to be filed with any Governmental Authority or arbitrator based on, arising out of, in connection with, or otherwise relating to the employment or termination of employment by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of any individual, except those that, in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The consummation of the Transactions will not give rise to any right of termination or right of renegotiation on the part of any union under any collective bargaining agreement by which any Wireline Company is bound.
Section 3.14
. Labor Matters.
      On the Effective Date, immediately after the Transactions to occur on the Effective Date are consummated and after giving effect to the application of the proceeds of each Loan to be made on the Effective Date, (a) the fair value of the assets of each Loan Party, at a fair valuation, will exceed its debts and liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise; (b) the present fair saleable value of the property of each Loan Party will exceed the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of its debts and other liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise, as such debts and other
Section 3.15
. Solvency.
Table of Contents
liabilities become absolute and matured; (c) each Loan Party will be able to pay its debts and liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise, as such debts and liabilities become absolute and matured; and (d) no Loan Party will have unreasonably small capital with which to conduct the business in which it is engaged as such business is now conducted and proposed to be conducted after the Effective Date.
      (a) Each of the Wireline Companies holds, or on the Effective Date will hold, all Regulatory Authorizations and all other material Governmental Authorizations (including but not limited to franchises, ordinances and other agreements granting access to public rights of way, issued or granted to any Wireline Company by a state or federal agency or commission or other federal, state or local or foreign regulatory bodies regulating competition and telecommunications businesses) (collectively, the "") that are required for the conduct of its business as presently conducted and as proposed to be conducted, except to the extent the failure to hold any Wireline Licenses would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.16
. Licenses; Franchises.
Wireline Licenses
     (b) Each Wireline License is, or on the Effective Date will be, valid and in full force and effect and has not been, or will not have been, suspended, revoked, cancelled or adversely modified, except to the extent any failure to be in full force and effect or any suspension, revocation, cancellation or modification has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect. No Wireline License is subject to (i) any conditions or requirements that have not been imposed generally upon licenses in the same service, unless such conditions or requirements would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) any pending regulatory proceeding (other than those affecting the wireline industry generally) or judicial review before a Governmental Authority, unless such pending regulatory proceedings or judicial review would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect. The Borrower does not have knowledge of any event, condition or circumstance that would preclude any Wireline License from being renewed in the ordinary course (to the extent that such Wireline License is renewable by its terms), except where the failure to be renewed has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
     (c) The licensee of each Wireline License is (or on the Effective Date will be) in compliance with each Wireline License and has (or on the Effective Date will have) fulfilled and performed, or will fulfill or perform, all of its material obligations with respect thereto, including with respect to the filing of all reports, notifications and applications required by the Communications Act or the rules, regulations, policies, instructions and orders of the FCC or any PUC, and the payment of all regulatory fees and contributions, except (i) for exemptions,
Table of Contents
waivers or similar concessions or allowances and (ii) where such failure to be in compliance or to fulfill or perform its obligations or pay such fees or contributions has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
     (d) A Wireline Company owns, or on the Effective Date will own, all of the Equity Interests in, and Controls, or on the Effective Date will Control, all of the voting power and decision-making authority of, each licensee of the Wireline Licenses, except where the failure to own such Equity Interests or Control such voting power and decision-making authority of such licensees would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
      Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is (a) named on the list of Specially Designated Nationals or Blocked Persons maintained by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control or (b)(i) an agency of the government of a country, (ii) an organization controlled by a country or (iii) a Person resident in a country, in each case that is subject to a sanctions program identified on the list maintained by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, as such program may be applicable to such agency, organization or Person, and the proceeds from the Loans will not be used to fund any operations in, finance any investments or activities in, or make any payments to, any such country or Person.
Section 3.17
. OFAC.
      The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
Section 4.01
. Effective Date.
     (a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
     (b) The Administrative Agent shall have received a written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of each of John P. Fletcher, Esq., General Counsel of the Borrower, William Ojile, Esq., General Counsel of Valor, Kirkland & Ellis LLP, special counsel for the Loan Parties, and Wilkinson Barker Knauer, LLP, special regulatory counsel for the Loan Parties, substantially in the
Table of Contents
forms of Exhibits B-1, B-2, B-3 and B-4, respectively, and covering such other corporate, Collateral, regulatory (including with respect to Governmental Authorizations) and other matters relating to the Wireline Companies, the Loan Documents or the Transactions as the Required Lenders or the Lead Arrangers shall reasonably request. The Borrower hereby requests each such counsel to deliver such opinions.
     (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of each Loan Party, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Wireline Companies, the Loan Documents or the Transactions, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
     (d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Borrower, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02.
     (e) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable by any Loan Party to any of the Lender Parties on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out of pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by any Loan Party under the Loan Documents, and the Borrower, Alltel, Valor and their respective subsidiaries shall have complied with their obligations under the Commitment Letter and the Fee Letters.
     (f) The Collateral and Guarantee Requirement shall have been satisfied and the Collateral Agent shall have received a completed Perfection Certificate dated the Effective Date and signed by a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Borrower, together with all attachments contemplated thereby, including the results of a search of the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent) filings made with respect to the Collateral Support Parties in the jurisdictions contemplated by the Perfection Certificate and copies of the financing statements (or similar documents) disclosed by such search and evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Collateral Agent that the Liens indicated by such financing statements (or similar documents) are permitted by Section 6.02 or have been (or concurrently with the closing of the Transactions will be) released. The Lenders shall be reasonably satisfied with the terms of any intercreditor arrangements with other lienholders.
     (g) The Administrative Agent shall have received reasonably satisfactory evidence that all insurance required by Section 5.06 is (or concurrently with the closing of the Transactions will be) in effect.
Table of Contents
     (h) The final terms and conditions of each aspect of the Transactions, including, without limitation, all tax aspects thereof, shall be (i) substantially as described in the Information Memorandum and otherwise consistent in all material respects with the description thereof received by the Lenders in writing prior to the date hereof and (ii) otherwise reasonably satisfactory to the Required Lenders. The Lenders shall have received copies of the Transaction Documents, certified by a Financial Officer as complete and correct, and shall be reasonably satisfied with the terms and conditions thereof; it being understood that the execution copies of the Merger Agreement and the Distribution Agreement, as attached to the Registration Statement as Annexes A and B, respectively, are acceptable to the Lenders. The Transaction Documents shall not have been altered, amended or otherwise changed or supplemented or any condition therein waived, in each case in a manner that is materially adverse to the interests of the Lenders, without the prior written consent of the Required Lenders. The Preliminary Restructuring and the Contribution shall have been consummated, and the Lenders shall be satisfied that the Distribution, the Merger and the Refinancings (other than of the Refinancing of the Tendered Valor Bonds and including the release of the Guarantees of and Liens securing, and the termination of all commitments under, the Valor 2005 Credit Facility on terms and pursuant to documentation satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and except that the Existing Letters of Credit shall remain outstanding) will be consummated substantially contemporaneously with the initial funding hereunder, in each case substantially in accordance with the terms of the applicable Transaction Documents and applicable material law and regulatory approvals (including all material Regulatory Authorizations).
     (i) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date, signed by the President, a Vice President or the General Counsel of the Borrower, either attaching copies of, or describing, all material Governmental Authorizations (including Regulatory Authorizations and the expiration, without imposition of material conditions, of all applicable waiting periods in connection with the Transactions) required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party, and the validity against each Loan Party of, the Loan Documents and the other Transaction Documents to which it is a party (including with respect to the pledges of Equity Interests in the Subsidiaries pursuant to the Security Agreement), and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect.
     (j) The Lead Arrangers shall have received a certificate of a Financial Officer certifying that the Leverage Ratio as of the Effective Date, determined on a Pro Forma Basis, is not greater than 3.50 to 1.0 (and containing reasonably detailed calculations thereof).
     (k) The Lenders shall have received (i) audited (for the 2003, 2004 and 2005 fiscal years) and unaudited quarterly (for each Fiscal Quarter ended
Table of Contents
thereafter) consolidated financial statements of each of the Borrower and Valor and the Pro Forma Financial Statements, in each case meeting the requirements of Regulations S-X and S-K for a Form S-1 registration statement under the Securities Act, and (ii) a business plan of the Wireline Companies including projections on an annual basis for the period from the Effective Date through December 31, 2012, in each case under this paragraph (j) which are not inconsistent in a manner adverse to the Lenders with the Information and projections provided to the Lead Arrangers and the Lead Lenders prior to the date of the Commitment Letter.
     (l) The Administrative Agent shall have received a solvency certificate, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, from the chief financial officer of the Borrower, with respect to the solvency of each of the Borrower, individually, and the Loan Parties, taken as a whole, after giving effect to the Transactions.
     (m) Since September 30, 2005, there shall not have been any state of facts, change, development, event, effect, condition or occurrence that, individually or in the aggregate, has had a Material Adverse Effect.
      The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, and of the Issuing Banks to issue, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Section 4.02
. Each Credit Event.
     (a) The representations and warranties of each Loan Party set forth in the Loan Documents that are qualified by materiality shall be true and correct, and the representations that are not so qualified shall be true and correct in all material respects, in each case, on and as of the date of such Borrowing or the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable (other than with respect to any representation and warranty that expressly relates to an earlier date, in which case such representation and warranty shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date).
     (b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing or the issuance, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing and each issuance, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
Table of Contents
     Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
      The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent on behalf of each Lender (and the Administrative Agent will make available to each Lender):
Section 5.01.
Financial Statements; Ratings Change and Other Information.
     (a) as soon as available and in no event later than 90 days after the end of each Fiscal Year, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such Fiscal Year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous Fiscal Year, all reported on by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;
     (b) as soon as available and in no event later than 45 days after the end of each of the first three Fiscal Quarters of each Fiscal Year, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such Fiscal Quarter and the then elapsed portion of the Fiscal Year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous Fiscal Year, all certified by a Financial Officer as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
     (c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Sections 6.13 (including specifying the amount, if any, of Capital Expenditures financed with Available Equity Proceeds or Reinvestment Funds), 6.14 and 6.15, (iii) to the extent that any such change in GAAP has an impact on such financial statements,
Table of Contents
stating whether any change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04, and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate and (iv) certifying as to the amounts of Available Cash, Available Distributable Cash, Available Equity Proceeds of the date of such certificate and setting forth reasonably detailed calculations thereof;
     (d) within 60 days after the beginning of each Fiscal Year, a detailed consolidated budget for such Fiscal Year (including a projected consolidated balance sheet and related statements of projected operations and cash flows as of the end of and for such Fiscal Year and setting forth the assumptions used in preparing such budget) and, promptly when available, any significant revisions of such budget approved by the board of directors of the Borrower;
     (e) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by any Wireline Company with the SEC or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by the Borrower to its shareholders generally, as the case may be; and
     (f) promptly following any reasonable written request by Administrative Agent therefor, (i) copies of all material reports and written information to and from (A) the FCC or any PUC with jurisdiction over the property or business of any Wireline Company or (B) the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or any state or local agency responsible for environmental matters, the United States Occupational Health and Safety Administration, or any state or local agency responsible for health and safety matters, or any successor or other agencies or authorities concerning environmental, health or safety matters or (ii) such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of any Wireline Company, or compliance with the terms of any Loan Document, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) may reasonably request.
     (g) Any financial statement or other materials required to be delivered pursuant to this Section 5.01 shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which such information is posted on the Borrower's website on the Internet or by the Administrative Agent on an IntraLinks or similar site to which Lenders have been granted access or shall be available on the SEC's website on the Internet at www.sec.gov; that (i) the Borrower shall give notice of any such posting to the Administrative Agent (who shall then give notice of any such posting to the Lenders), and (ii) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of any such documents to the Administrative Agent if the Administrative Agent requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of any certificate required by Section 5.01(c) to the Administrative Agent. Except
provided
Table of Contents
for such certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents. Furthermore, if any financial statement or other materials required to be delivered under this Agreement shall be required to be delivered on any date that is not a Business Day, such information may be delivered to the Administrative Agent on the next succeeding Business Day after such date.
      The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent (and the Administrative Agent will make available to each Lender) prompt written notice of a Responsible Officer obtaining Knowledge of any of the following:
Section 5.02.
Notices of Material Events.
     (a) the occurrence of any Default;
     (b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting any Wireline Company or any Affiliate thereof that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
     (c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
     (d) (i) the occurrence of, or receipt of a written notice of any claim with respect to, any Environmental Liability that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) receipt of a written notice of non-compliance with any Environmental Law or permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law to the extent such non-compliance could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and
     (e) (i) non-compliance with any Regulatory Authorization, to the extent such non-compliance could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) receipt of any written notice from any Governmental Authority in relation to the continuation, validity, renewal or conditions attaching to any Regulatory Authorization which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Borrower setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
Table of Contents
      (a) The Borrower will furnish to the Collateral Agent prompt written notice of any change in (i) any Loan Party's legal name, jurisdiction of organization, chief executive office or principal place of business, (ii) any Loan Party's identity or form of organization or (iii) any Loan Party's federal Taxpayer Identification Number. No later than 10 Business Days after any change referred to in the preceding sentence, the Borrower shall confirm to the Collateral Agent (and, as and when available, provide any information reasonably requested by the Collateral Agent) that all filings have been made under the Uniform Commercial Code (or that the Borrower has provided to the Collateral Agent all information required or reasonably requested by the Collateral Agent in order for it to make such filings), and all other actions have been taken, that are required so that such change will not at any time adversely affect the validity, perfection or priority of any Transaction Lien on any of the Collateral.
Section 5.03.
Information Regarding Collateral.
     (a) Each year, at the time annual financial statements with respect to the preceding Fiscal Year are delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a), the Borrower will deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of a Financial Officer and its chief legal officer (i) setting forth, with respect to each Loan Party, the information required pursuant to Parts A-1 and A-2 of the Perfection Certificate or confirming that there has been no change in such information since the date of the Perfection Certificate delivered on the Effective Date (or the effective date of such Loan Party's Security Agreement Supplement) or the date of the most recent certificate delivered pursuant to this subsection and (ii) certifying that all Uniform Commercial Code financing statements (including fixture filings, as applicable) or other appropriate filings, recordings or registrations, including all refilings, rerecordings and reregistrations, containing a description of the Collateral have been filed of record in each appropriate office in each jurisdiction identified pursuant to clause (i) above to the extent necessary to protect and perfect the Transaction Liens for a period of at least 18 months after the date of such certificate (except as noted therein with respect to any continuation statements to be filed within such period).
      The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things reasonably necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect (i) its legal existence and (ii) the rights, licenses, permits, privileges, franchises, patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade names material to the conduct of its business, except, in the case of clause (ii), where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.03 or any disposition of assets permitted under Section 6.05.
Section 5.04.
Existence; Conduct of Business.
provided
      The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations other than Indebtedness, including
Section 5.05.
Payment of Obligations.
Table of Contents
Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the applicable Wireline Company has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP, and (c) such contest effectively suspends collection of the contested obligation and the enforcement of any Lien securing such obligation.
      (a) Except as otherwise permitted in Section 6.05, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep and maintain all property used in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear (and damage caused by casualty) excepted, except where the failure to take such actions could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 5.06.
Maintenance of Properties; Insurance; Casualty and Condemnation.
     (b) The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies insurance in such amounts and against such risks as may be required by law or as the Borrower reasonably and in its good faith business judgment believes are customarily maintained by companies of established repute engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations. Fire and extended coverage policies maintained with respect to any Collateral shall be endorsed or otherwise amended to include a lenders' loss payable clause in favor of the Collateral Agent and providing for losses thereunder to be payable to the Collateral Agent or its designee as additional loss payee as its interests may appear. Commercial general liability policies shall be endorsed to name the Collateral Agent as an additional insured. Each such policy referred to in this paragraph (b) also shall provide that it shall not be canceled, modified with respect to endorsements or loss payable provisions or not renewed (x) by reason of nonpayment of premium except upon at least 10 days' prior written notice thereof by the insurer to the Collateral Agent (giving the Collateral Agent the right to cure defaults in the payment of premiums) or (y) for any other reason except upon at least 30 days' prior written notice thereof by the insurer to the Collateral Agent. The Borrower shall deliver to the Collateral Agent, prior to the cancellation or nonrenewal, or modification of any endorsement or loss payable provisions of any such policy of insurance, a copy of a renewal or replacement policy (or other evidence of renewal of a policy previously delivered to the Collateral Agent) together with evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Collateral Agent of payment of the premium therefor to the extent then due.
     (c) The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Lenders prompt written notice of any Casualty Event.
Table of Contents
      The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all material dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities in accordance with GAAP. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and, with the opportunity for the Borrower to be present, its independent accountants, all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested; that (x), unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower shall not be required by this Agreement to pay for more than one visit per year by the Administrative Agent and (y) the Lenders shall coordinate any visits through the Administrative Agent.
Section 5.07.
Books and Records; Inspection Rights.
provided
      The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to so comply could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 5.08.
Compliance with Laws.
      The proceeds of the Tranche A Term Loans and Tranche B Term Loans will be used only to finance the Special Dividend, to refinance the Indebtedness described in clauses (a) through (g) of the definition of "Refinancings" and to pay fees and expenses in connection with the Transactions. The proceeds of the Tranche C Term Loans will be used only to repurchase Tendered Valor Bonds, to pay accrued and unpaid interest, premiums and other amounts constituting the "Change of Control Payment" in accordance with Section 4.14 of the Valor Indenture and to pay any fees and expenses in connection therewith. The proceeds of the Revolving Loans will be used only to pay fees and expenses in connection with the Transactions, for Permitted Acquisitions and for working capital and other general corporate purposes of the Wireline Companies. The proceeds of any Incremental Loan Facility will be used only as provided in Section 2.01(b) and in the Incremental Facility Amendment. No part of the proceeds of any Loan or Letters of Credit will be used, whether directly or indirectly, to purchase or carry margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or for any other purpose, in each case that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X. Letters of Credit will be issued only to support general corporate obligations of the Wireline Companies.
Section 5.09.
Use of Proceeds and Letters of Credit.
      If any additional Subsidiary, other than an Insignificant Subsidiary, is formed or acquired after the Effective Date, the Borrower will, within ten Business Days after such Subsidiary is formed or
Section 5.10.
Additional Subsidiaries.
Table of Contents
acquired, notify the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent thereof and cause the Collateral and Guarantee Requirement to be satisfied with respect to any Equity Interest in such Subsidiary held by a Loan Party and any Indebtedness of such Subsidiary owed to a Loan Party. If at any time any Subsidiary that is not then a Loan Party, other than an Insignificant Subsidiary or any Subsidiary listed on Schedule 5.10, (x) is a wholly-owned Domestic Subsidiary and is permitted by applicable law or regulation (without the need to obtain any Governmental Authorization) to Guarantee the Facility Obligations or (y) Guarantees any Loan Party's obligations in respect of any New Notes, any Assumed Bonds or any other Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness created under the Loan Documents), the Borrower shall promptly cause (A) such Subsidiary to Guarantee the Facility Obligations pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement (in the case of any Subsidiary described in clause (y), on terms no less favorable to the Lenders than those applicable under such Guarantee of other Indebtedness) and (B) the other provisions of the Collateral and Guarantee Requirement to be satisfied with respect to such Subsidiary, whereupon such Subsidiary will become a "Guarantor" and "Lien Grantor" for purposes of the Loan Documents. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, form or acquire any Subsidiary (other than Insignificant Subsidiaries) after the Effective Date unless all of the Equity Interests in such Subsidiary shall be directly held by a Loan Party.
      (a) Each Loan Party will execute and deliver any and all further documents, financing statements, agreements and instruments, and take all such further actions (including the filing and recording of financing statements, fixture filings and other documents), that may be required under any applicable law, or that the Collateral Agent or the Required Lenders may reasonably request, to cause the Collateral and Guarantee Requirement to be and remain satisfied, all at the Borrower's expense. The Borrower will provide to the Collateral Agent, from time to time upon any reasonable request from the Collateral Agent, evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Collateral Agent as to the perfection and priority of the Liens intended to be created by the Security Documents.
Section 5.11.
Further Assurances.
     (b) If any material assets (other than any real property or improvements thereto or any interest therein) are acquired by any Loan Party after the Effective Date (other than assets constituting Collateral that become subject to Transaction Liens upon acquisition thereof), the Borrower will notify the Collateral Agent and the Lenders thereof, and, if requested by the Collateral Agent or the Required Lenders, will cause such assets to be subjected to a Transaction Lien securing the Secured Obligations and will take, or cause the relevant Guarantor to take, such actions as shall be necessary or reasonably requested by the Collateral Agent to grant and perfect or record such Transaction Lien, in each case to the extent contemplated by the Security Documents, including actions described in Section 5.11(a), all at the Borrower's expense.
Table of Contents
      As promptly as practicable, and in any event within 30 days after the Effective Date, the Borrower will, or will cause one or more of its Subsidiaries to, offer to repurchase the Valor Bonds in accordance with Section 4.14 of the Valor Indenture.
Section 5.12.
Valor Bond Offer to Repurchase.
      The Borrower will use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Facilities to be continuously rated by S&P and Moody's.
Section 5.13.
Rated Credit Facilities.
      The Borrower will cause, and will cause its Subsidiaries to cause, Windstream Communications, Inc. (formerly Alltel Holding Corporate Services, Inc.) not to (a) engage to any material extent in any business or activity, other than (i) the ownership of Wireline Licenses and other assets owned (or similar to those owned), and the business or other activities engaged in, by it on the Effective Date, (ii) the maintenance of its corporate existence, (iii) the making of Restricted Payments to the extent permitted by Section 6.08, and (iv) activities incidental to (including with respect to legal, tax and accounting matters), or otherwise required to comply with applicable law in connection with, any of the foregoing activities; and (b) create, incur, assume or permit to exist (i) any Indebtedness of the type described in clause (a) of the definition thereof, unless owed to a Loan Party, (ii) other Indebtedness unless consistent with past practice, in each case regardless of whether such Indebtedness would otherwise be permitted under Section 6.01, or (iii) any other liabilities, other than liabilities (but not any Indebtedness) (A) existing (or similar to those existing) on the Effective Date or (B) associated with the activities permitted under subclauses (i) through (iv) of clause (a) above.
Section 5.14.
Windstream Communications.
     Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
      (a) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except:
Section 6.01.
Indebtedness; Certain Equity Securities.
     (i) Indebtedness created under the Loan Documents;
     (ii) Indebtedness of the Loan Parties in respect of the New Notes and the Assumed Valor Bonds;
Table of Contents
     (iii) Indebtedness of AC Holdings and any of its subsidiaries that are Loan Parties in respect of the AC Holdings Bonds; and Indebtedness of Alltel Georgia in respect of the Alltel Georgia Bonds;
     (iv) Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness permitted under clause (ii) or (iii) of this paragraph (a)) existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.01;
     (v) Indebtedness of the Borrower to any Subsidiary and of any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary; that (A) any such Indebtedness of any Subsidiary that is not a Collateral Support Party to any Collateral Support Party shall be subject to Section 6.04, (B) except to the extent any Regulatory Authorization would be required therefor and has not been obtained, any such Indebtedness of any Loan Party to any Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor shall be subordinated to the Facility Obligations on terms reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and (C) any such Indebtedness owed to any Loan Party and evidenced by a promissory note shall be pledged pursuant to clause (b) of the definition of "Collateral and Guarantee Requirement";
provided
     (vi) Guarantees by the Borrower of Indebtedness of any Subsidiary and by any Subsidiary of Indebtedness of the Borrower or any other Subsidiary (other than Indebtedness permitted solely pursuant to clauses (a)(iii) (except for Guarantees of the AC Holdings Bonds by any of its subsidiaries that is a Loan Party to the extent required under the AC Holdings Indenture as in effect on the date hereof), (a)(iv), (a)(viii) or (a)(xviii) or any combination thereof); that (A) Guarantees by any Collateral Support Party of Indebtedness of any Subsidiary that is not a Collateral Support Party shall be subject to Section 6.04, (B) Guarantees permitted under this clause (vi) shall be subordinated to the Secured Obligations of the applicable Subsidiary if and to the same extent and on the same terms as the Indebtedness so Guaranteed is subordinated to the Secured Obligations and (C) no Indebtedness shall be Guaranteed by any Subsidiary unless such Subsidiary is a Loan Party that has Guaranteed the Secured Obligations pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement;
provided
     (vii) Indebtedness of any Wireline Company incurred to finance the acquisition, construction, restoration or improvement of any fixed or capital assets, including Capital Lease Obligations (whether through the direct acquisition of such assets or the acquisition of Equity Interests in a Person holding only such fixed or capital assets) and any Indebtedness assumed by any Wireline Company in connection with the acquisition of any such assets or secured by a Lien on any such assets prior to the acquisition thereof; that (A) such Indebtedness is incurred (or if assumed, was incurred) prior to or within 150 days after such acquisition
provided
Table of Contents
or the completion of such construction, restoration or improvement and (B) the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by this clause (vii) shall not exceed $250,000,000 at any time outstanding;
     (viii) Indebtedness of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the Effective Date; that (A) such Indebtedness exists at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary and is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Subsidiary and (B) the Borrower is in compliance on a Pro Forma Basis after giving effect to such Indebtedness with the covenants contained in Sections 6.14 and 6.15 recomputed as of the last day of the most-recently ended Fiscal Quarter prior to the time at which such Person becomes a Subsidiary;
provided
     (ix) Indebtedness of any Wireline Company constituting reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit in respect of workers' compensation claims or self-insurance obligations;
     (x) Indebtedness of any Wireline Company constituting reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit issued in the ordinary course of business; that, upon the drawing of such letters of credit or the incurrence of such Indebtedness, such obligations are reimbursed within 30 days following such drawing or incurrence;
provided
     (xi) Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of performance bonds, bid bonds, appeal bonds, surety bonds, performance and completion guarantees and similar obligations (other than in respect of Indebtedness for borrowed money);
     (xii) Indebtedness in respect of Swap Agreements permitted by Section 6.07;
     (xiii) Indebtedness of any Wireline Company arising from the honoring by a bank or other financial institution of a check, draft or similar instrument drawn against insufficient funds in the ordinary course of business, that such Indebtedness is extinguished within five Business Days of its incurrence;
provided, however,
     (xiv) Indebtedness of any Wireline Company arising from agreements providing for indemnification, adjustment of purchase price or similar obligations, or Guarantees or letters of credit, surety bonds or performance bonds securing any obligations of any Wireline Company pursuant to any such agreements, in any case incurred in connection with the disposition of any business, assets or any Subsidiary (other than Guarantees of Indebtedness incurred by any Person acquiring all or any portion of such business, assets or Subsidiary for the purpose of financing such acquisition), so long as the principal amount of such Indebtedness
Table of Contents
does not exceed the gross proceeds actually received by the Wireline Companies in connection with such disposition;
     (xv) any Earn-out Obligation or obligation in respect of any purchase price adjustment, except to the extent that the contingent consideration relating thereto is not paid within 15 Business Days after the contingency relating thereto is resolved;
     (xvi) Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness of any Wireline Company incurred in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to refund, refinance or replace Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness of the Borrower to any Subsidiary or of any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary) that was permitted to be incurred under clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (vii) or (viii) or this clause (xvi) of this paragraph;
     (xvii) Indebtedness incurred in connection with the financing of insurance premiums in the ordinary course of business;
     (xviii) other Indebtedness of any Wireline Company in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding $150,000,000 at any time outstanding; that (A) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom and (B) the Borrower is in compliance on a Pro Forma Basis after giving effect to the incurrence of such Indebtedness with the covenants contained in Sections 6.14 and 6.15 recomputed as of the last day of the most-recently ended Fiscal Quarter prior to the issuance of such Indebtedness; and
provided
     (xix) Permitted Additional Debt; that (A) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom and (B) the Borrower is in compliance on a Pro Forma Basis after giving effect to the incurrence of such Indebtedness with the covenants contained in Sections 6.14 and 6.15 recomputed as of the last day of the most-recently ended Fiscal Quarter prior to the issuance of such Indebtedness.
provided
     (b) If any Indebtedness is incurred pursuant to clause (viii), (xviii), or (xix) of paragraph (a) of this Section in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $250,000,000, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of a Financial Officer to such effect, together with all relevant financial information reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent, including reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with such covenants (which calculations shall, if made as of the last day of any Fiscal Quarter for which the Borrower has not delivered to the Administrative Agent the financial statements and certificate of a Financial Officer required to be delivered by Section 5.01(a) or (b) and Section 5.01(c), respectively, be accompanied by a
Table of Contents
reasonably detailed calculation of Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA and Consolidated Cash Interest Expense for the relevant period).
     (c) No Subsidiary will issue any Preferred Stock.
      The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, or assign or sell any income or revenues (including accounts receivable) or rights in respect of any thereof, except:
Section 6.02.
Liens.
     (a) Transaction Liens;
     (b) Permitted Encumbrances;
     (c) any Lien on any property or asset of any Wireline Company existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.02; that (i) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or asset of any Wireline Company and (ii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date hereof, and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof (plus the amount of any capitalized interest thereon and any premiums and fees and expenses);
provided
     (d) any Lien existing on any property or asset prior to the acquisition thereof by any Wireline Company or existing on any property or asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets of any Wireline Company and (iii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date of such acquisition or the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary, as the case may be, and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof (plus the amount of any capitalized interest thereon and any premiums and fees and expenses);
provided
     (e) Liens on fixed or capital assets acquired, constructed, restored or improved by any Wireline Company (including any such assets made the subject of a Capital Lease Obligation); that (i) such Liens secure Indebtedness permitted by clause (vii) of Section 6.01(a), (ii) such Liens and the Indebtedness secured thereby are incurred prior to or within 150 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction, restoration or improvement, (iii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed 100% of the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such fixed or capital assets and (iv) such Liens shall not apply to any other property or assets of any Wireline Company;
provided
Table of Contents
     (f) Liens in favor of collecting or payor banks having a right of setoff, revocation, refund or chargeback with respect to money or instruments of any Wireline Company on deposit with or in possession of such bank arising in the ordinary course of business;
     (g) Liens in favor of the Borrower or any Guarantor;
     (h) Liens on cash or Cash Equivalents securing (a) obligations of any Wireline Company under Swap Agreements permitted under Section 6.07, or (b) letters of credit that support such obligations under such Swap Agreements; that the aggregate principal amount secured by all such Liens shall not at any time exceed $35,000,000;
provided
     (i) Liens arising out of conditional sale, title retention, consignment or similar arrangements for the sale of goods, in each case entered into in the ordinary course of business;
     (j) Liens securing Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness (except as provided in clause (e) of the definition thereof); that such Liens do not extend to any property or assets other than the property or assets that secure the Indebtedness being refinanced;
provided
     (k) Liens (i) attaching to advances to a seller of any property to be acquired, (ii) consisting of an agreement to dispose of property and (iii) on cash earnest money deposits in connection with Investments permitted under Section 6.04;
     (l) Liens on insurance policies and the proceeds thereof granted in the ordinary course to secure the financing of insurance premiums with respect thereto;
     (m) Liens by virtue of statute in favor of any Lender in respect of the Investment of the Loan Parties in non-voting participation certificates of such Lender permitted pursuant to clause (s) of Section 6.04; and
     (n) Liens not otherwise permitted by this Section to the extent that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the obligations secured thereby (determined as of the date such Lien is incurred) does not exceed $100,000,000 at any time outstanding.
      (a) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or liquidate or dissolve, except that (i) the Borrower may merge with and into Valor in connection with the Merger and (ii) if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (A) any
Section 6.03.
Fundamental Changes.
Table of Contents
Person may merge into the Borrower in a transaction in which the Borrower is the surviving corporation, (B) any Person may merge into any Subsidiary in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a Subsidiary and (if any party to such merger is a Guarantor) is (or upon consummation of such merger becomes in accordance with the terms of this Agreement) a Guarantor and (C) any Subsidiary may liquidate or dissolve if the Borrower determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of the Borrower and is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders; that any such merger involving a Person that is not a wholly-owned Subsidiary immediately prior to such merger shall not be permitted unless also permitted by Section 6.04.
provided
     (b) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, engage to any material extent in any business other than Permitted Businesses.
      The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, purchase, hold or acquire (including pursuant to any merger with any Person that was not a wholly-owned Subsidiary prior to such merger) any Equity Interest in or evidences of Indebtedness or other securities (including any option, warrant or other right to acquire any of the foregoing) of, make or permit to exist any loans or advances to, guarantee any obligations of, or make or permit to exist any investment or any other interest in, any other Person, or purchase or otherwise acquire (in one transaction or a series of transactions) all or substantially all of the assets of, or assets constituting a division, unit or line of business of, any other Person (each of the foregoing, an ""), except:
Section 6.04.
Investments, Loans, Advances, Guarantees and Acquisitions.
Investment
     (a) Investments in connection with the Transactions;
     (b) Cash Equivalents;
     (c) Investments existing on the date hereof and listed on Schedule 6.04;
     (d) Investments by the Borrower, Valor and their subsidiaries in Equity Interests in their respective subsidiaries; that (i) any such Equity Interest held by a Loan Party shall be pledged pursuant to the Security Agreement as required to satisfy clause (b) of the definition of "Collateral and Guarantee Requirement", and (ii) the aggregate amount of such Investments by Collateral Support Parties in Equity Interests in Subsidiaries that are not Collateral Support Parties made after the Effective Date in reliance on this clause (d) shall not exceed (together with (x) any loans and advances by Collateral Support Parties to Subsidiaries that are not Collateral Support Parties made in reliance on clause (e) below and (y) any Guarantees by Collateral Support Parties of Indebtedness or other obligations of Subsidiaries that are not Collateral Support Parties made in reliance on clause (f) below) $75,000,000 (in each case determined at the time made and without regard to any subsequent write-downs or write-offs);
provided
Table of Contents
     (e) loans or advances made by the Borrower to any Subsidiary and made by any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary; that the amount of such loans and advances made in reliance on this clause (e) after the Effective Date by Collateral Support Parties to Subsidiaries that are not Collateral Support Parties shall be subject to the limitation set forth in clause (ii) of the proviso in clause (d) above;
provided
     (f) (x) Guarantees constituting Indebtedness permitted by Section 6.01 and (y) guarantees provided in the ordinary course of business of obligations of any Wireline Company (other than Indebtedness) under operating leases and similar contracts; that (i) any Person providing any such Guarantee of Indebtedness shall have complied with Section 5.10 with respect thereto, and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness and other obligations of Subsidiaries that are not Collateral Support Parties that is Guaranteed by Collateral Support Parties shall be subject to the limitation set forth in clause (ii) of the proviso in clause (d) above;
provided
     (g) any Investment acquired by any Wireline Company (i) in exchange for any other Investment or accounts receivable held by such Wireline Company in connection with or as a result of a bankruptcy, workout, reorganization or recapitalization of the issuer of such other Investment or accounts receivable or (ii) as a result of a foreclosure by any Wireline Company with respect to any secured Investment or other transfer of title with respect to any secured Investment in default;
     (h) Investments consisting of purchases and acquisitions of inventory, supplies, materials and equipment or purchases of contract rights or licenses or leases of intellectual property, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
     (i) Investments that constitute Permitted Asset Exchanges and Permitted Acquisitions (including any cash earnest money deposits required in connection with any Permitted Acquisition);
     (j) loans or advances to employees of any Wireline Company not exceeding $5,000,000 in the aggregate outstanding at any time;
     (k) commission, payroll, travel and similar advances to officers and employees to cover matters that are expected at the time of such advances ultimately to be treated as expenses of the Wireline Companies in accordance with GAAP;
     (l) Investments consisting of the licensing or contribution of intellectual property pursuant to joint marketing arrangements with other Persons;
     (m) Investments in the form of Swap Agreements permitted by Section 6.07;
Table of Contents
     (n) Investments of any Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary or consolidates or merges with the Borrower or any Subsidiary (including in connection with a Permitted Acquisition) so long as such Investments were not made in contemplation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary or of such consolidation or merger;
     (o) Investments resulting from pledges or deposits described in clause (b) or (c) of the definition of "Permitted Encumbrance";
     (p) Investments received in connection with the disposition of any asset permitted by Section 6.05;
     (q) advances to customers or suppliers in the ordinary course of business that are, in conformity with GAAP, recorded as accounts receivable, prepaid expenses or deposits on the balance sheet of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and endorsements for collection or deposit arising in the ordinary course of business;
     (r) Investments arising from any transaction permitted by Section 6.08;
     (s) Investments existing on the date hereof in non-voting participation certificates of any Lender and additional Investments made after the Closing Date in any such non-voting participation certificates (including accruals on such certificates made by such Lender in accordance with its bylaws and capital plan); and
     (t) so long as no Event of Default of the type described in paragraph (a), (b), (h) or (i) of Article 7 has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom, additional Investments in any Person (that any such Person is either (i) not an Affiliate of the Borrower or (ii) is an Affiliate of the Borrower (A) solely because the Borrower, directly or indirectly, owns Equity Interests in, or controls, such Person or (B) engaged in bona fide business operations and is an Affiliate solely because it is under common control with the Borrower) having an aggregate Fair Market Value (measured on the date each such Investment was made and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value), when taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause (t) since the Effective Date and then outstanding not to exceed the sum (calculated as of the date of such Investment was made after giving effect to all other applications of Available Distributable Cash or Available Equity Proceeds on such date) of (i) Available Distributable Cash (ii) Available Equity Proceeds (iii) the greater of (x) $150,000,000 and (y) 2% of Total Assets (iv) the aggregate amount of cash equal to the net reduction in Investments made pursuant to this clause (t) in any Person since the Effective Date resulting from repayments of loans or advances, or other transfers of assets, in each case to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or from the net proceeds received in cash, from the sale of any such
provided
plus
plus
plus
Table of Contents
Investment (except, in each case, to the extent any such payment or proceeds are included in the calculation of Consolidated Adjusted Net Income); that any Investment made pursuant to this clause (t) in any Person that is not a Wireline Company at the time such Investment is made may, if such Person thereafter becomes a Wireline Company, from and after such date be deemed to have been made pursuant to clause (d), (e) or (f)(ii), as applicable, and not pursuant to this clause (t).
provided
      The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) any property, including any Equity Interest owned by it (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired), nor will any Subsidiary issue any additional Equity Interest in such Subsidiary (other than issuing directors' qualifying shares and other than issuing Equity Interests to the Borrower or another Subsidiary in compliance with Section 6.04(d)), except:
Section 6.05.
Asset Sales.
     (a) the transfer to Alltel or any of its subsidiaries of any "AT Co. Assets" (as defined in the Distribution Agreement) in connection with the Preliminary Restructuring;
     (b) sales, transfers, leases or other dispositions of (i) inventory, (ii) obsolete, worn-out, used, no longer useful or surplus property or equipment and (iii) Cash Equivalents, in the case of each of clauses (i) , (ii) and (iii), in the ordinary course of business;
     (c) sales, transfers, leases and other dispositions (including issuance of Equity Interests) to a Wireline Company; that any such sales, transfers or dispositions involving a Subsidiary that is not a Collateral Support Party shall comply with Section 6.09;
provided
     (d) leases or subleases of property, and licenses or sublicenses of intellectual property, in each case entered into in the ordinary course of business and to the extent that any of the foregoing does not materially interfere with the business of any Wireline Company;
     (e) dispositions or write-downs of accounts receivable in connection with the compromise, settlement or collection thereof in the ordinary course of business or bankruptcy or similar proceedings;
     (f) any Restricted Payment permitted under Section 6.08;
     (g) Permitted Asset Exchanges;
     (h) sales of assets in connection with any Sale and Leaseback Transaction permitted under Section 6.06;
Table of Contents
     (i) dispositions of property constituting Investments permitted under Section 6.04(g);
     (j) dispositions of assets consisting of transactions permitted under Section 6.03;
     (k) sales, transfers, leases and other dispositions of property to the extent that such property consists of an Investment permitted by Section 6.04(p);
     (l) dispositions resulting from any casualty or other insured damage to, or any taking under power of eminent domain or by condemnation or similar proceeding of, any property or asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; and
     (m) sales, transfers, leases and other dispositions of assets (except Equity Interests in a Subsidiary unless all Equity Interests in such Subsidiary are sold) that are not permitted by any other clause of this Section; that the aggregate Fair Market Value of all assets sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of in reliance on this clause (m) shall not at any time exceed the greater of $750,000,000 and 10% of Total Assets (with the Fair Market Value of each item of non-cash consideration being measured at the time received and without giving effect to any subsequent changes in value);
provided
that any sales, transfers, leases and other dispositions permitted by clauses (g), (h), (k) or (m) of this Section shall be (x) made for Fair Market Value and (y) in the case of sales, transfers, leases and other dispositions permitted by clauses (h) or (m) of this Section shall be made for at least 75% Cash Consideration.
provided
      Except for the transactions identified on Schedule 6.06, the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any arrangement, directly or indirectly, whereby it shall sell or transfer any property, real or personal, used or useful in its business, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, and thereafter rent or lease such property or other property that it intends to use for substantially the same purpose or purposes as the property sold or transferred (any such transaction, a ""), unless:
Section 6.06.
Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
     (a) the applicable Wireline Company could have (a) incurred Indebtedness in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt relating to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction pursuant to Section 6.01 and (b) incurred a Lien to secure such Indebtedness pursuant to Section 6.02 in which case such Indebtedness and Liens shall be deemed to have been so incurred;
     (b) the gross cash proceeds of that Sale and Leaseback Transaction are at least equal to the Fair Market Value of the property that is the subject of that Sale and Leaseback Transaction; and
Table of Contents
     (c) the transfer of assets in that Sale and Leaseback Transaction is permitted by, and the Borrower applies the proceeds of such transaction in compliance with, Section 2.10.
      The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any Swap Agreement, except (a) Swap Agreements entered into to hedge or mitigate risks to which any Wireline Company has actual exposure in the conduct of its business or the management of its liabilities (other than those in respect of Equity Interests or Restricted Indebtedness of a Wireline Company), and (b) Swap Agreements entered into in order to effectively cap, collar or exchange interest rates (from fixed to floating rates, from one floating rate to another floating rate or otherwise) with respect to any interest-bearing liability or Investment of any Wireline Company.
Section 6.07.
Swap Agreements.
      (a) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, declare or make, or agree to pay or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so, except:
Section 6.08.
Restricted Payments; Certain Payments of Debt.
     (i) the Borrower may declare and pay the Special Dividend;
     (ii) the Borrower may declare and pay dividends with respect to its Equity Interests payable solely in additional shares of its common stock;
     (iii) Subsidiaries may declare and pay dividends ratably with respect to their Equity Interests;
     (iv) the repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of any Equity Interests of any Wireline Company held by any current or former employee, consultant or director of any Wireline Company pursuant to the terms of any employee equity subscription agreement, stock option agreement or similar agreement; that the aggregate price paid for all such repurchased, redeemed, acquired or retired Equity Interests in any fiscal year will not exceed the sum of:
provided
     (A) $20,000,000, with unused amounts pursuant to this subclause (A) being carried over to succeeding fiscal years;
plus
     (B) the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Borrower since the Effective Date as a contribution to its common equity capital or from the issue or sale of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Borrower to any current or former employee, consultant or director of any Wireline Company; that the amount of any such net cash proceeds that are
provided
Table of Contents
used to permit a repurchase, redemption or other acquisition under this subclause (B) will be excluded from clause (a) of the definition of "Available Equity Proceeds";
     (v) the making of any payment in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of a contribution to the common equity of the Borrower or a substantially concurrent sale (other than to a Subsidiary of the Borrower) of, Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Borrower; that the amount of any such net cash proceeds that are utilized for any such payment will be excluded for the purposes of calculating Available Equity Proceeds;
provided
     (vi) so long as no Dividend Suspension Period or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom, the declaration and payment of dividends or distributions to holders of any class or series of Disqualified Stock of the Borrower issued or incurred in accordance with this Agreement;
     (vii) the repurchase of Equity Interests deemed to occur upon the exercise of options or warrants the issuance of which is not prohibited by this Agreement to the extent that such Equity Interests represent all or a portion of the exercise price thereof;
     (viii) so long as no Dividend Suspension Period, or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom, the repurchase of Equity Interests of the Borrower constituting fractional shares in an aggregate amount since the Effective Date not to exceed $100,000;
     (ix) the payment of dividends by the Borrower on its common stock in an amount not to exceed $237,500,000 in the aggregate for the first two quarterly dividend payments made after the Effective Date;
     (x) the payment of the Special Stub Dividend;
     (xi) so long as no Dividend Suspension Period or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom, the Borrower may repurchase, acquire or redeem, and may declare and pay regular quarterly dividends on, its common stock in accordance with its dividend policy in effect from time to time (which may be changed at any time by the Borrower's Board of Directors) in an aggregate amount which does not exceed the sum (calculated as of the date of such dividend payment after giving effect to all other applications of Available Distributable Cash or Available Equity Proceeds on such date) of (A) Available Distributable Cash (B) Available Equity Proceeds;
plus
Table of Contents
     (xii) other Restricted Payments in an aggregate amount not exceeding $50,000,000; and
     (xiii) the Borrower may pay any dividend within 90 days after the date of declaration thereof, if the Borrower would have been permitted to make such payment under this Section 6.08(a) on the date of such declaration.
     (b) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, make or agree to pay or make, directly or indirectly, any payment or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) of or in respect of principal of or interest on any Restricted Indebtedness, or any payment or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, defeasance or termination of any such Indebtedness, or any payment (including, without limitation, any payment under a Swap Agreement) that has a substantially similar effect to any of the foregoing, except:
     (i) the payment of regularly scheduled payments of interest and fees and the payment of expenses and, in the case of the Alltel Georgia Bonds only, mandatory payments of principal in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 annually, in each case as and when due in respect of any Restricted Indebtedness;
     (ii) payments in respect of Restricted Indebtedness, that (A) no Dividend Suspension Period or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such payment or would result therefrom and (B) the aggregate amount of such payments does not exceed the sum (calculated as of the date of such payment after giving effect to all other applications of Available Distributable Cash or Available Equity Proceeds on such date) of (A) Available Distributable Cash (B) Available Equity Proceeds; and
provided
plus
     (iii) refinancings of Restricted Indebtedness to the extent permitted by Section 6.01.
      Except as set forth on Schedule 6.09, the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, sell, lease or otherwise transfer any property or assets to, or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any property or assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any of its Affiliates, except (a) in the ordinary course of business at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to such Wireline Company than could reasonably be expected to be obtained in an arm's-length transaction with a Person that is not an Affiliate of the Wireline Companies, (b) transactions between or among the Collateral Support Parties or any Person that
Section 6.09.
Transactions with Affiliates.
Table of Contents
will become a Collateral Support Party in connection therewith, except to the extent that any payments thereunder made by any Wireline Company to such Person are substantially concurrently paid by such Person to any other Affiliate of any Wireline Company and are not otherwise permitted under this Section 6.09, (c) any Restricted Payment permitted by Section 6.08, (d) mergers or consolidations between Subsidiaries or between the Borrower and any Subsidiary permitted under Section 6.03, and (e) intercompany Investments, loans, advances and Guarantees permitted under Section 6.04.
      The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, enter into, incur or permit to exist any consensual agreement or other arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon (a) the ability of any Wireline Company to create, incur or permit to exist any Lien upon any of its property or assets in favor of the Secured Parties (or an agent or trustee on their behalf) or to transfer any of its properties or assets to any other Wireline Company, or (b) the ability of any Subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions with respect to any of its Equity Interests or to make or repay loans or advances to any other Wireline Company or to Guarantee Indebtedness of any other Wireline Company; that:
Section 6.10.
Restrictive Agreements.
provided
     (i) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions imposed by law or regulation or by any Loan Document or other Transaction Document,
     (ii) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions existing on the date hereof identified on Schedule 6.10 (but shall apply to any extension or renewal of, or any amendment or modification expanding the scope of, any such restriction or condition),
     (iii) the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions and conditions contained in agreements relating to the sale of a Subsidiary or any assets pending such sale, that such restrictions and conditions apply only to the Subsidiary or assets that is or are to be sold and such sale is permitted hereunder,
provided
     (iv) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions or conditions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness permitted by this Agreement if such restrictions or conditions apply only to the property or assets securing such Indebtedness,
     (v) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions imposed by customary provisions in leases and other contracts restricting the assignment thereof,
     (vi) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions or conditions applicable to any Person or the property or assets of a Person acquired by
Table of Contents
the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries existing at the time of such acquisition and not incurred in connection with or in contemplation of such acquisition, which restriction or condition is not applicable to any Person or the properties or assets of any Person, other than the Person, or the property or assets of the Person, so acquired and any amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, extensions, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings thereof, that the restrictions and conditions in any such amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, extensions, supplements, refundings, replacement or refinancings are no more restrictive, taken as a whole, than those in effect on the date of the acquisition; and
provided
     (vii) the foregoing restrictions shall not apply to restrictions or conditions (A) on cash or other deposits or net worth imposed by customers or required by insurance, surety or bonding companies, in each case, under contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, (B) existing under, by reason of or with respect to provisions with respect to the disposition or distribution of assets or property, in each case contained in joint venture agreements, limited liability company agreements and other similar agreements and which the Borrower's board of directors determines will not adversely affect the Borrower's ability to make payments of principal or interest payments on the Loans, or (C) existing under, by reason of or with respect to Indebtedness incurred to refinance any Indebtedness, in each case as permitted under Section 6.01; that the restrictions contained in the agreements governing the Indebtedness incurred to refinance Indebtedness are no more restrictive, taken as a whole, than those contained in the agreements governing the Indebtedness being refinanced.
provided
      The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, amend, modify or waive any of its rights under (a) any Transaction Document (other than the Loan Documents), (b) its certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other organizational documents or (c) any instruments, agreements or other documents in respect of Permitted Additional Debt, in each case in a manner materially adverse to the Lenders.
Section 6.11.
Amendment of Material Documents.
      The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, change its fiscal year or change its method of determining fiscal quarters.
Section 6.12.
Change in Fiscal Year.
      (a) The Borrower will not permit the aggregate amount of Capital Expenditures (excluding any Capital Expenditures to the extent funded with Available Equity Proceeds or Reinvestment Funds) made in any Fiscal Year referred to below to exceed the sum of:
Section 6.13.
Capital Expenditures.
Table of Contents
     (i) $480,000,000 (in the case of the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 2006) or $450,000,000 (in the case of each Fiscal Year ending thereafter);
plus
     (ii) for each Fiscal Year ending after December 31, 2006, the amount (if any) by which (x) the amount of Capital Expenditures for the immediately preceding Fiscal Year specified pursuant to clause (i) above (without including any carryover amount from any prior Fiscal Year) exceeded (y) the amount of Capital Expenditures actually made during such immediately preceding Fiscal Year.
     (b) If any personal property acquired or constructed by any Loan Party after the date hereof is not subject to a Transaction Lien, the Borrower will, to the extent otherwise required hereunder or under the Security Agreement, cause such Security Documents to be executed and delivered as may be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent may request, to subject such property to a Transaction Lien.
      The Borrower will not permit the Interest Coverage Ratio to be less than 2.75 to 1.0 on the last day of any Fiscal Quarter.
Section 6.14.
Interest Coverage Ratio.
      The Borrower will not permit the Leverage Ratio to exceed 4.50 to 1.0 on the last day of any Fiscal Quarter.
Section 6.15.
Leverage Ratio.
     If any of the following events ("") shall occur:
Events of Default
     (a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any LC Reimbursement Obligation when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
     (b) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under any Loan Document, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five Business Days;
     (c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of any Wireline Company in or in connection with any Loan Document or any amendment or modification thereof or waiver thereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in
Table of Contents
connection with any Loan Document or any amendment or modification thereof or waiver thereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made;
     (d) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02(a), 5.04 (with respect to the Borrower's existence) or 5.09 or in Article 6;
     (e) any Loan Party shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in any Loan Document (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after receipt of notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
     (f) any Wireline Company shall fail to make any payment of principal, interest or premium in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable (with all applicable grace periods having expired);
     (g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits (with all applicable grace periods having expired and all applicable notices having been given) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity (except to the extent the holders of the Valor Bonds may require the repurchase thereof as a result of the "Change of Control" of Valor resulting from the Merger); that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer or other disposition of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness;
provided
     (h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than an Insignificant Subsidiary) or their respective debts, or of a substantial part of their respective assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than an Insignificant Subsidiary) or for a substantial part of their respective assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
Table of Contents
     (i) the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than an Insignificant Subsidiary) shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than an Insignificant Subsidiary) or for a substantial part of their respective assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
     (j) the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than an Insignificant Subsidiary) shall become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
     (k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $75,000,000 (except to the extent any applicable third party insurer has acknowledged liability therefor) shall be rendered against any Wireline Company or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 60 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of any Wireline Company to enforce any such judgment;
     (l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
     (m) a Change in Control shall occur;
     (n) any Regulatory Authorization shall expire or terminate or be revoked or otherwise lost, or the Borrower shall fail to be in compliance with Section 10.2 of the Merger Agreement, which in any case could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
     (o) any Lien purported to be created under any Security Document shall cease to be, or shall be asserted by any Loan Party not to be, a valid and, except to the extent otherwise permitted by the Security Agreement, perfected Lien on any Collateral, with the priority required by the applicable Security Document, except (i) Collateral having a Fair Market Value not exceeding $10,000,000 in the aggregate, (ii) as a result of a sale or other disposition of the applicable Collateral in a transaction permitted under the Loan Documents, (iii) as a result of such
Table of Contents
Loan Party's being released from its obligations under and pursuant to the Security Agreement or (iv) as a result of the Collateral Agent's failure to maintain possession of any stock certificates, promissory notes or other documents delivered to it under the Security Agreement; or
     (p) any Guarantor's Facility Guarantee shall at any time fail to constitute a valid and binding agreement of such Guarantor (other than in accordance with its terms) or any Wireline Company shall so assert in writing; or
     (q) the Guarantees of the Facility Obligations by any Loan Party, other than an Insignificant Subsidiary, pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement shall cease to be in full force and effect (in each case, other than in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents);
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.
     Each of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks hereby irrevocably appoints each of the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent as its agent and authorizes (i) the Collateral Agent to sign and deliver the Security Documents and (ii) each such Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to such Agent by the terms of the Loan Documents, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
Table of Contents
     Any bank serving as an Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not an Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with any Wireline Company or Affiliate thereof as if it were not an Agent.
     No Agent shall have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth in the Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) no Agent shall be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) no Agent shall have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that such Agent is required to exercise in writing as directed by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth in the Loan Documents, no Agent shall have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any Wireline Company that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as an Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. No Agent shall be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. No Agent shall be deemed to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to such Agent by the Borrower or a Lender, and no Agent shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with any Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered thereunder or in connection therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth any Loan Document, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of any Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article 4 or elsewhere in any Loan Document, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
     Each Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. Each Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. Each Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for any Wireline Company), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Table of Contents
     Any Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by such Agent. Any Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of any Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the Facilities as well as activities as an Agent.
     Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent or Collateral Agent, as the case may be, as provided in this paragraph, each of the Administrative Agent and/or the Collateral Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of the Borrower (which may not be unreasonably withheld), to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, appoint a successor Administrative Agent or Collateral Agent, as the case may be, which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent or Collateral Agent, as the case may be, hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed in writing between the Borrower and such successor. After any Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Agent, its sub agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as an Agent.
     Each Lender and Issuing Bank acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and Issuing Bank also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Table of Contents
      (a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Section 9.01.
Notices.
     (i) if to the Borrower, to it at 4001 Rodney Parham Road, Mail Stop 1170-B1-F3-24A, Little Rock, Arkansas 72212-2442, Attention of Treasurer (Telecopy No. 501-748-6392);
     (ii) if to the Administrative Agent or the Collateral Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 1111 Fannin, 10th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention of Clarice West (Telecopy No.: 713-750-2358) (email: clarice.a.west@jpmchase.com), with copies to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 270 Park Avenue, 4 Floor, New York, New York 10017, Attention of Christophe Vohmann (Telecopy No. 212-270-5127) (email: christophe.vohmann@jpmorgan.com), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 270 Park Avenue, 15 Floor, New York, New York 10017, Attention of Padmini Persaud (Telecopy No. 212-270-4164) (email: padmini.persaud@jpmorgan.com);
th
th
     (iii) if to an Issuing Bank, to it at the address provided to the Borrower for notices to such Issuing Bank in such capacity; and
     (iv) if to any Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
     (b) Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the Issuing Bank hereunder may also be delivered or furnished by electronic communications (including e-mail and Internet or intranet website) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or the Issuing Bank pursuant to Article 2 if such Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
provided
     (c) Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance
Table of Contents
with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
      (a) No failure or delay by any Lender Party in exercising any right or power hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Lender Parties under the Loan Documents are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of any Loan Document or consent to any departure by any Loan Party therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether any Lender Party may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time. No notice or demand on the Borrower in any case shall entitle the Borrower to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances.
Section 9.02.
Waivers; Amendments.
     (b) Except as provided in Section 2.01(b) with respect to any Incremental Facility Amendment, no Loan Document or any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the Required Lenders or by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (or, in the case of any Security Document, the Collateral Agent) with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce or forgive the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon (other than any waiver of default interest payable pursuant to Section 2.12(c)), or reduce or forgive any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender Party directly affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of repayment of the principal amount of any Loan pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.09 or the applicable Incremental Facility Amendment or the required date of reimbursement of any LC Disbursement, or any interest (other than any waiver of default interest) or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce (other than any waiver of default interest) the amount of, waive or excuse any such repayment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iv) change the rights of the Tranche B Lenders to decline mandatory prepayments as provided in Section 2.10, without the written consent of Lenders holding a majority of the outstanding Tranche B Loans, (v) change Section 2.17(b) or (c), the penultimate sentence of Section 2.10(g), or the last sentence of Section 2.07(c), in each case in a manner
provided
Table of Contents
that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments or reduction of Commitments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender adversely affected thereby (it being understood that an amendment shall not be deemed to change such provisions in such manner to the extent it effects an increase in the commitment of any Lender(s) or in the aggregate amount of the commitments of any class), (vi) change any of the provisions of this Section or reduce the percentage set forth in the definition of "Required Lenders" (or the definition of "Required Revolving Lenders" or "Required Tranche C Lenders") or any other provision of any Loan Document specifying the number or percentage of Lenders (or Lenders of any Class) required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent thereunder, without the written consent of each Lender, or each Lender of such Class, as the case may be (it being understood that an amendment shall not be deemed to change such provisions to the extent it effects an increase in the commitment of any Lender(s) or in the aggregate amount of the commitments of any class), (vii) release any material Guarantor from its Facility Guarantee (except as expressly provided in the Guarantee Agreement), or limit its liability in respect of its Facility Guarantee, without the written consent of each Lender, (viii) release all or substantially all of the Collateral from the Transaction Liens, without the written consent of each Lender, (ix) waive any condition set forth in Section 4.02 (including by amending or waiving any provision of Article 3, 5, 6 or 7 if the effect of such amendment or waiver would be to waive any such condition) for purposes of any Revolving Borrowing or Tranche C Borrowing without the written consent of the Required Revolving Lenders or the Required Tranche C Lenders, as the case may be, (x) change any provision of any Loan Document in a manner that by its terms adversely affects the rights in respect of payments due to Lenders holding Loans of any Class differently than those holding Loans of any other Class, without the written consent of Lenders holding a majority in interest of the outstanding Loans and unused Commitments of each adversely affected Class, (xi) modify the protections afforded to an SPV pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.04(e) without the prior written consent of such SPV or (xii) amend the definition of "Interest Period" so as to permit any Interest Period of greater than 6 months without the consent of all Lenders participating in the applicable Borrowing, without the written consent of each such Lender; that (A) no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent or any Issuing Bank under the Loan Documents without the prior written consent of such Agent or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, (B) any waiver, amendment or modification of this Agreement that by its terms affects the rights or duties under this Agreement of one Class of Lenders (but not of any other Class of Lenders) may be effected by an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the requisite percentage in interest of the affected Class of Lenders that would be required to consent thereto under this Section if such Class of Lenders were the only Class of Lenders hereunder at the time and (C) any waiver, amendment or modification of the Commitment Letter or either Fee Letter may be effected by an
provided further
Table of Contents
agreement or agreements in writing entered into only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder (as provided in the definitions of "Required Lenders", "Required Revolving Lenders" and "Required Tranche C Lenders"), except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without its consent.
     (c) In connection with any proposed amendment, modification, waiver or termination (a "") requiring the consent of all Lenders or all affected Lenders, if the consent of the Required Lenders (and/or, to the extent so required, the consent of the Required Revolving Lenders and/or the Required Tranche C Lenders) to such Proposed Change is obtained, but the consent to such Proposed Change of other Lenders whose consent is required is not obtained (any such Lender whose consent is not obtained as described in paragraph (b) of this Section being referred to as a ""), then, so long as the Lender that is acting as Administrative Agent is not a Non-Consenting Lender, the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Non-Consenting Lender and the Administrative Agent, require each of the Non-Consenting Lenders to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that (a) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent (and, if a Revolving Commitment is being assigned, the Issuing Bank), which consent(s) shall not unreasonably be withheld or delayed, (b) each Non-Consenting Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (c) the Borrower or such assignee shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the processing and recordation fee specified in Section 9.04(b).
Proposed Change
Non-Consenting Lender
provided
     (d) Further, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section, if within thirty (30) days following the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall have jointly identified an obvious error or any error or omission of a technical or immaterial nature, in each case, in any provision of the Loan Documents, then the Administrative Agent (acting in its sole discretion) and the Borrower shall be permitted to amend such provision and such amendment shall become effective without any further action or consent of any other party to any Loan Document if the same is not objected to in writing by the Required Lenders within five Business Days following receipt of notice thereof.
Table of Contents
      (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Lead Arrangers and their Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of Davis Polk & Wardwell and Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, special New York and regulatory counsel, respectively, for the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Lead Arrangers, in connection with the syndication of the Facilities and the preparation of the Loan Documents (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Lead Arrangers and their Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Lead Arrangers in connection with the administration of the Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (iii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Issuing Banks in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit by it or any demand for payment thereunder and (iv) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any Lender Party, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Lender Party, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with the Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Section 9.03.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
     (b) The Borrower shall indemnify each of the Lender Parties, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an ""), against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, but excluding Taxes, which are governed by Section 2.16, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of any Loan Document or any other agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties to the Loan Documents of their respective obligations thereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by an Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property currently or formerly owned or operated by any Wireline Company, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to any of the Wireline Companies, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on
Indemnitee
Table of Contents
contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from (A) the bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee, (B) any claims of such Indemnitee against any other Indemnitee and/or (C) the breach by such Indemnitee of its obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document.
provided
     (c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to any Agent or any Issuing Bank under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to such Agent or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such Lender's pro rata share (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought based on the aggregate amount of (x) in the case of a payment owed to an Agent, the Revolving Commitments and outstanding Term Loans and (y) in the case of a payment owed to an Issuing Bank, the Revolving Commitments) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the applicable Agent or Issuing Bank in its capacity as such.
provided
     (d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof.
     (e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after written demand therefor.
      (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of an Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), except that (i) the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of any Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the other Agents and the Related Parties of each of the
Section 9.04.
Successors and Assigns.
Table of Contents
Agents, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
     (b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent of:
     (A) the Borrower, that (x) no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund or, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee and (y) such consent may not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;
provided
     (B) the Administrative Agent, that, in the case of an assignment of any Term Loan or Term Commitment, (x) no consent of the Administrative Agent shall be required for such assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund and (y) such consent may not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; and
provided
     (C) the Issuing Bank, that no consent of the Issuing Bank shall be required for an assignment of all or any portion of a Term Loan or Term Commitment.
provided
     (ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
     (A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment or Loans of any Class, the amount of the Commitment or Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 or, in the case of a Term Loan, $1,000,000 unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
provided
     (B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, that this clause shall not be construed to prohibit the assignment of a
provided
Table of Contents
proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations in respect of one Class of Commitments or Loans;
     (C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; that assignments made pursuant to Section 2.18(b) shall not require the signature of the assigning Lender to become effective; and
provided
     (D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire in which the assignee designates one or more Credit Contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower, the other Loan Parties and their Related Parties or their respective subsidiaries) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and state securities laws.
     For the purposes of this Section 9.04(b), the term "" and "" has the following meaning:
Approved Fund
CLO
     "" means (a) a CLO and (b) with respect to any Lender that is a fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit, any other fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit and is managed by the same investment advisor as such Lender or by an Affiliate of such investment advisor.
Approved Fund
     "" means an entity (whether a corporation, partnership, trust or otherwise) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course and is administered or managed by a Lender or an Affiliate of such Lender.
CLO
     (iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a
Table of Contents
party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 and to any fees payable hereunder that have accrued for such Lender's account but have not yet been paid). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 9.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
     (iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amount of the Loans and LC Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). Absent manifest error, the entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower, the Issuing Banks and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
     (v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register; that if either the assigning Lender or the assignee shall have failed to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.04(d) or (e), 2.05(b), 2.17(d) or 9.03(c), the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information therein in the Register unless and until such payment shall have been made in full, together with all accrued interest thereon. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
provided
     (vi) The words "execution", "signed", "signature" and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a
Table of Contents
manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
     (c) (i) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent or any Issuing Bank, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitments and the Loans owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Borrower and the other Lenders Parties shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce the Loan Documents and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Loan Documents; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15 and 2.16 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.08 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.17(c) as though it were a Lender.
Participant
provided
provided
     (ii) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.14 or 2.16 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that is a Foreign Recipient shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.16 unless the Participant complies with Section 2.16(e).
     (d) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including without limitation any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a
provided
Table of Contents
security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
     (e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle organized and administered by such Granting Lender (an ""), identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, the option to provide to the Borrower all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement, that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPV to make any Loan, (ii) if an SPV elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof and (iii) the SPV shall provide the documentation described in Section 2.16(e) and shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.14 or 2.16 than the Granting Lender would be entitled to receive thereunder. The making of a Loan by an SPV hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPV shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement (all liability for which shall remain with the Granting Lender). In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior indebtedness of any SPV, such party will not institute against, or join any other person in instituting against, such SPV any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings under the laws of the United States or any State thereof; that each Lender designating any SPV hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each other party hereto for any loss, cost, damage or expense arising out of its inability to institute such a proceeding against such SPV during such period of forbearance. In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 9.04, any SPV may (i) with notice to, but without the prior written consent of, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or a portion of its interests in any Loans to the Granting Lender or to any financial institutions (consented to by the Borrower and Administrative Agent) providing liquidity or credit support to or for the account of such SPV to support the funding or maintenance of Loans and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPV.
Granting Lender
SPV
provided
provided
      All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Loan Parties in the Loan Documents and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to the
Section 9.05.
Survival.
Table of Contents
Loan Documents shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that any Lender Party may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 and Article 8 shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
      This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Section 9.06.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.
      Any provision of any Loan Document held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Section 9.07.
Severability.
      If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, any Issuing Bank and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized (but only with the consent of the Required Lenders, unless an Event of Default of the type described in paragraph (a), (b), (h) or (i) of Article 7 shall have occurred and be continuing or the maturity of the
Section 9.08.
Right of Setoff.
Table of Contents
Loans shall have been accelerated pursuant to Article 7) at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, but excluding (i) trust accounts for the benefit of third parties that have been certified as such by a Financial Officer to the Administrative Agent and the Lender or Issuing Bank that is the depositary bank and (ii) unless the maturity of the Loans shall have been accelerated pursuant to Article 7, up to an aggregate amount of $60,000,000 held in payroll accounts of the Loan Parties that have been certified as such by a Financial Officer to the Administrative Agent and the Lender or Issuing Bank that is the depositary bank) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender, such Issuing Bank or such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any of and all the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender or Issuing Bank, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or Issuing Bank shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or Issuing Bank different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such obligation. The rights of each Lender and Issuing Bank and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender or Issuing Bank and their respective Affiliates may have.
      (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York.
Section 9.09.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process.
     (b) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to any Loan Document, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in any Loan Document shall affect any right that any Lender Party may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to any Loan Document against any Loan Party or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
     (c) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising
Table of Contents
out of or relating to any Loan Document in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
     (d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in any Loan Document will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
      EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
Section 9.10.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.
      Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Section 9.11.
Headings.
      (a) Each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (i) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (ii) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (iii) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (iv) to any other party to this Agreement, (v) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (vi) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (A) any assignee or pledgee under Section 9.04(d) of or
Section 9.12.
Confidentiality.
Table of Contents
Participant in, or any prospective assignee or pledgee under Section 9.04(d) of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (B) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (vii) with the consent of the Borrower or (viii) to the extent such Information (A) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (B) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Borrower (other than a source actually known by such disclosing Person to be bound by confidentiality provisions comparable to those set forth in this Section 9.12). For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower relating to the Borrower or its business, other than any such information that is available to any Agent, Issuing Bank or Lender on a non-confidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower (other than from a source actually known by such party to be bound by confidentiality obligations). Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
     (b) EACH LENDER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT INFORMATION AS DEFINED IN SECTION 9.12(a) FURNISHED TO IT PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY INCLUDE MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION CONCERNING THE LOAN PARTIES AND THEIR RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES, AND CONFIRMS THAT IT HAS DEVELOPED COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REGARDING THE USE OF MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION AND THAT IT WILL HANDLE SUCH MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THOSE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW, INCLUDING FEDERAL AND STATE SECURITIES LAWS.
     (c) ALL INFORMATION, INCLUDING REQUESTS FOR WAIVERS AND AMENDMENTS, FURNISHED BY THE BORROWER OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT PURSUANT TO, OR IN THE COURSE OF ADMINISTERING, THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE SYNDICATE-LEVEL INFORMATION, WHICH MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE BORROWER, THE OTHER LOAN PARTIES AND THEIR RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES. ACCORDINGLY, EACH LENDER REPRESENTS TO THE BORROWER AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT THAT IT HAS IDENTIFIED IN ITS ADMINISTRATIVE QUESTIONNAIRE A CREDIT CONTACT WHO MAY RECEIVE INFORMATION THAT MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ITS COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW, INCLUDING FEDERAL AND STATE SECURITIES LAWS.
Table of Contents
      Each Lender that is subject to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "") hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
Section 9.13.
USA PATRIOT ACT.
Act
      Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan or participation in any LC Disbursement, together with all fees, charges and other amounts that are treated as interest on such Loan or LC Disbursement or participation therein under applicable law (collectively the ""), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") that may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan or LC Disbursement or participation therein in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan or LC Disbursement or participation therein but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or LC Disbursement or participation therein or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
Section 9.14.
Interest Rate Limitation.
Charges
Maximum Rate
Table of Contents
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 10.6
     Windstream Corporation, the surviving entity of the merger of Alltel Holding Corp. with and into Valor Communication Group, Inc., hereby acknowledges that it has succeeded to, and otherwise expressly assumes, all of the obligations of Alltel Holding Corp. ("") under the Credit Agreement dated as of the date hereof among AHC, as borrower, the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (the "Credit Agreement") and each of the other Loan Documents to which AHC is a party. Terms used but not defined herein that are defined in the Credit Agreement shall as used herein have the respective meanings assigned thereto in such documents.
AHC
     This Assumption Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 

 
Exhibit 10.7
     WHEREAS, Alltel Corporation ("Alltel") and Alltel Holding Corp. ("Spinco") entered into an Employee Benefits Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2005 (the "Agreement");
     WHEREAS, Alltel and Spinco desire to make certain changes to the Agreement regarding the transfer of obligations and liabilities regarding executive benefits; and
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, provisions and covenants contained in the Agreement and this Amendment, and for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     7.03 . Each Alltel Restricted Share award outstanding under the 1998 Equity Incentive Plan or the 2001 Equity Incentive Plan and held by a Spinco Individual or Spinco Employee as of the Distribution Date (a "Specified Award") shall not be forfeited on the Distribution Date and shall become fully vested on August 3, 2006. In determining a Spinco Individual's or Spinco Employee's rights with respect to a Specified Award, employment after the Distribution Date with Spinco, a successor in interest to Spinco or any of their Subsidiaries (as defined in the Merger Agreement) shall be treated as employment with Alltel. Each share of Spinco common stock that is distributed with respect to a Specified Award (and each share of Company common stock into which such Spinco common stock is converted) shall be restricted and conditioned to the same extent and for the same period as the Specified Award is restricted and conditioned (taking into account the full vesting and deemed Alltel employment provided for in two preceding sentences). In the event of a forfeiture of any of the foregoing restricted shares, such restricted shares shall be forfeited to the issuer of the shares. Spinco shall take all steps that are necessary to ensure that the restrictions and conditions contemplated by this Section 7.03 are applied to the Company common stock referenced above.
Restricted Stock
     (a) . Prior to the Distribution Date, Spinco shall establish, or cause to be established, a plan for Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals, the provisions of which shall be substantially identical to the provisions of the Benefit Restoration Plan (the "").
Establishment
Spinco Restoration Plan
     (b) . Effective as of the date of establishment of the Spinco Restoration Plan, the obligations and liabilities with respect to Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals under the Benefit
Transfer of Obligations/Liabilities
 
Restoration Plan shall be transferred to and assumed by the Spinco Restoration Plan.
     (c) . On July 18, 2006, Alltel shall transfer cash to the general funds of Windstream Corporation as successor to Spinco in an amount sufficient to provide for the payment of the obligations and liabilities with respect to Spinco Individuals (except the individual employed by Alltel as of December 8, 2005) under the Benefit Restoration Plan that are transferred to and assumed by the Spinco Restoration Plan (assuming for purposes of calculating this amount only, that all benefits shall be payable in a single lump sum on May 31, 2006 and that, for the single lump sum with respect to the retirement benefits provided in Article V of the Benefit Restoration Plan, the lump sum is calculated as of January 1, 2006 (if not in pay status, based on such individual's benefit payable as of his normal retirement date (as defined in the Benefit Restoration Plan)) using a 5.8% interest rate and the FAS No. 87 actuarial methods and assumptions included in Schedule IV, reduced by any payments made between January 1, 2006 and the Distribution Date).
Transfer of Cash
     (a) . Prior to the Distribution Date, Spinco shall establish, or cause to be established, a plan for Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals, the provisions of which shall be substantially identical to the provisions of the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, including the provisions of the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan that are known as the Executive Deferred Compensation Sub-Plan (the "").
Establishment
Spinco Executive Plan
     (b) . Effective as of the date of establishment of the Spinco Executive Plan, the obligations and liabilities with respect to Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan shall be transferred to and assumed by the Spinco Executive Plan.
Transfer of Obligations/Liabilities
     (c) . On July 18, 2006, Alltel shall transfer cash to the general funds of Windstream Corporation as successor to Spinco in an amount sufficient to provide for the payment of the obligations and liabilities with respect to Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan that are transferred to and assumed by the Spinco Executive Plan (assuming for purposes of calculating this amount only, that all benefits shall be payable in a single lump sum on the Distribution Date).
Transfer of Cash
     (a) . Prior to the Distribution Date, Spinco shall establish, or cause to be established, a plan for Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals,
Establishment
 
the provisions of which shall be substantially identical to the provisions of the 1998 Management Deferred Compensation Plan, including the provisions of the 1998 Management Deferred Compensation Plan that are known as the 1998 Management Deferred Compensation Sub-Plan (the "").
Spinco 1998 Management Plan
     (b) . Effective as of the date of establishment of the Spinco 1998 Management Plan, the obligations and liabilities with respect to Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals under the 1998 Management Deferred Compensation Plan shall be transferred to and assumed by the Spinco 1998 Management Plan.
Transfer of Obligations/Liabilities
     (c) . Alltel shall transfer cash to the general funds of Windstream Corporation as successor to Spinco on July 18, 2006 in an amount sufficient to provide for the payment of the obligations and liabilities with respect to Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals under the 1998 Management Deferred Compensation Plan that are transferred to and assumed by the Spinco 1998 Management Plan (assuming for purposes of calculating this amount only, that all benefits shall be payable in a single lump sum on the Distribution Date).
Transfer of Cash
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Amendment to Employee Benefits Agreement to be duly executed as of this 17th day of July, 2006.

 
Exhibit 10.8
RECITALS
     Pursuant to Section 7.01(a)(2) of the Employee Benefits Agreement by and between ALLTEL Corporation and ALLTEL Holding Corp. (the "Company") dated as of December 8, 2005 (the "Employee Benefits Agreement"), the Company agreed to establish, or cause to be established, a plan, the provisions of which are substantially identical to the provisions of the ALLTEL Corporation Performance Incentive Compensation Plan, which such plan shall apply to the performance period beginning the day after the Distribution Date (as defined in the Employee Benefits Agreement) and ending December 31, 2006. The Company has adopted this Windstream Performance Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") pursuant to the terms of the Employee Benefits Agreement.
     The purpose of the Plan is to advance the interests of the Company by strengthening, through the payment of incentive awards, the linkage between executives of the Company and stockholders of the Company, the decision-making focus of executives of the Company upon improving stockholder wealth, and the ability of the Company to attract and retain those key employees upon whose judgment, initiative, and efforts the successful growth and profitability of the Company depends.
     a. "" shall mean a cash award granted under the Plan to a Participant by the Committee pursuant to such terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations, if any, as the Committee may establish.
Award
     b. "" shall mean the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated in accordance with Section XII to receive any amount payable under the Plan after the death of a Participant.
Beneficiary
     c. "" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
     d. "" shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
CEO
     e. "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     f. "" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board (or subcommittee thereof), consisting of not less than two Board members each of whom shall be (i)
Committee
 
a "non-employee director" as defined in Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (ii) an "outside director" as defined in the regulations under Section 162(m) of the Code.
     g. "" shall mean ALLTEL Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation, its successors and survivors resulting from any merger or acquisition of ALLTEL Holding Corp. with or by any other corporation or other entity or enterprise including, without limitation, the surviving corporation resulting from the proposed merger between the Company and Valor Communications Group, Inc. pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of December 8, 2005, among ALLTEL Corporation, ALLTEL Holding Corp., and Valor Communications Group, Inc. (which merged corporation is to be known as Windstream Corporation).
Company
     h. "" shall mean a Participant who the Committee deems likely to have compensation for the Plan Year which would be non-deductible by the Company under Section 162(m) of the Code if the Company did not comply with the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations thereunder with respect to such compensation.
Covered Employee
     i. "" shall mean incapacity resulting in the Participant's being unable to engage in gainful employment at his usual occupation by reason of any medically demonstrable physical or mental condition, excluding, however, incapacity contracted, suffered or incurred while the Participant was engaged in, or which resulted from having engaged in, a felonious enterprise; incapacity resulting from or consisting of chronic alcoholism or addiction to drugs or abuse; and incapacity resulting from an intentionally self-inflicted injury or illness.
Disability
     j. "" shall mean the day after the Distribution Date as defined in the Employee Benefits Agreement.
Effective Date
     k. "" shall mean any officer or key management employee of the Company or a Subsidiary who is a regular full-time employee of the Company or a Subsidiary. A director of the Company or a Subsidiary is not an Eligible Employee unless he is also a regular full-time salaried employee of the Company or a Subsidiary. A "full-time" employee means any employee who is customarily employed more than 20 hours per week and at least six months per year.
Eligible Employee
     l. "" shall mean any Eligible Employee who is approved by the Committee for participation in the Plan for the Plan Year with respect to which an Award may be made and which has not been paid, forfeited or otherwise terminated or satisfied under the Plan.
Participant
     m. "shall mean the formula established by the Committee for determining Awards for a Plan Year based on the level of achievement of the Performance Objectives for the Plan Year.
Payout Formula"
     n. "" means the measurable performance objective or objectives established pursuant to the Plan for Participants. Performance Objectives may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or objectives that are related to the performance of the individual Participant or of the Subsidiary, division, department, region or function within the Company or Subsidiary in which the Participant is employed. The Performance Objectives
Performance Objectives
 
may be made relative to the performance of other corporations. The Performance Objectives applicable to any Award to a Covered Employee that is intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception to Section 162(m) of the Code shall be based on specified levels of growth in one or more of the following criteria: revenues, weighted average revenue per unit, earnings from operations, operating income, earnings before or after interest and taxes, operating income before or after interest and taxes, net income, cash flow, earnings per share, debt to capital ratio, economic value added, return on total capital, return on invested capital, return on equity, return on assets, total return to stockholders, earnings before or after interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization or extraordinary or special items, operating income before or after interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization or extraordinary or special items, return on investment, free cash flow, cash flow return on investment (discounted or otherwise), net cash provided by operations, cash flow in excess of cost of capital, operating margin, profit margin, contribution margin, stock price and/or strategic business criteria consisting of one or more objectives based on meeting specified product development, strategic partnering, research and development, market penetration, geographic business expansion goals, cost targets, customer satisfaction, gross or net additional customers, average customer life, employee satisfaction, management of employment practices and employee benefits, supervision of litigation and information technology, and goals relating to acquisitions or divestitures of subsidiaries, affiliates and joint ventures. Performance Objectives may be stated as a combination of the listed factors.
     o. "" shall mean the Windstream Performance Incentive Compensation Plan, as set forth in this instrument, as amended from time to time.
Plan
     p. "" shall mean (i) the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on December 31, 2006 and (ii) for each period beginning after December 31, 2006, the Company's fiscal year for tax and financial reporting purposes, or such other period as determined by the Committee in its discretion, to be used to measure actual performance against Performance Objectives and to determine the amount of Awards for Participants.
Plan Year
     q. "" shall mean the Participant's termination of employment with the Company and/or all Subsidiaries for any reason other than death after either: (i) attaining age fifty-five and completing twenty (20) or more "Vesting Years of Service"; (ii) attaining age sixty (60) and completing fifteen (15) or more "Vesting Years of Service"; or (iii) satisfying the conditions specified for eligibility for "retirement" under a written employment contract between the Participant and the Company and/or a Subsidiary. For purposes of the immediately preceding sentence, "Vesting Years of Service" shall have the meaning given it under the terms of the Windstream Pension Plan.
Retirement
     r. "" shall mean a corporation of which fifty percent (50%) or more of the issued and outstanding voting stock is owned (directly or indirectly) by the Company.
Subsidiary
     a. Administration of the Plan shall be by the Committee, which shall, in applying and interpreting the provisions of the Plan, have full power and authority to construe, interpret and carry out the provisions of the Plan. All decisions, interpretations and actions of the
 
Committee under the Plan shall be at the Committee's sole and absolute discretion and shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties. The generality of the provisions of the immediately preceding sentence shall not be deemed to be limited by any reference to the Committee's discretion in any other provision of the Plan. The Committee may delegate to the CEO or other officers, subject to such terms as the Committee shall determine, authority to perform certain functions, including administrative functions, except that the Committee shall retain exclusive authority to determine matters relating to Awards to the CEO and other individuals who are Covered Employees. In the event of such delegation, all references to the Committee in this Plan shall be deemed references to such officers as it relates to those aspects of the Plan that have been delegated.
     b. No member of the Committee shall be jointly or severally liable by reason of any contract or other instrument executed by him or on his behalf in his capacity as a member of the Committee, nor for any mistake of judgment made in good faith, and the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Committee and each other officer, employee and director of the Company to whom any duty or act relating to the administration of the Plan may be allocated or delegated, against any cost or expense (including counsel fees) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of the claim with the approval of the Board) arising out of any act or omission to act in connection with the Plan, unless arising out of such person's or persons' own fraud or bad faith.
     c. The existence of this Plan or any Award or other right granted hereunder will not affect the authority of the Company or the Committee to take any other action, including in respect of the grant or award of any annual or long-term bonus or other right or benefit, whether or not authorized by this Plan, subject only to limitations imposed by applicable law.
     a. As soon as practicable after the beginning of each Plan Year, the Committee shall designate those Eligible Employees who shall participate in the Plan for the current Plan Year (or, if a person becomes an Eligible Employee after the beginning of the Plan Year, he shall be designated as a Participant as soon as practicable after he becomes an Eligible Employee). In determining which Eligible Employees shall participate for any given Plan Year, the Committee shall consider the recommendations of the CEO. Each Eligible Employee shall be notified of his participation in the Plan as soon as practicable after approval of his participation for any Plan Year (or portion thereof) for which his participation has been approved. An Eligible Employee who is a Participant for a given Plan Year is neither guaranteed nor assured of being selected for participation in any subsequent Plan Year.
     b. Notwithstanding anything contained in Section IV(a) to the contrary, individuals who are Covered Employees shall be designated by the Committee to participate in the Plan no later than 90 days following the beginning of the Plan Year or before 25% of the Plan Year has elapsed, whichever is earlier.
     c. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section IV to the contrary, the individuals listed on , and such other individuals as may be designated pursuant to this
Exhibit A
 
Section IV, shall participate in the Plan for the Plan Year beginning on the day after the Effective Date and ending on December 31, 2006.
     a. The Committee shall establish the Performance Objectives and Payout Formulas for each Participant during the first quarter of each Plan Year and notify each Participant in writing of his or her Payout Formulas and Performance Objectives. In determining the applicable Payout Formulas or Performance Objectives other than for the CEO, the Committee shall consider the recommendations of the CEO. The Performance Objectives and Payout Formulas established by the Committee need not be uniform with respect to any or all Participants. The Committee may also make Awards to newly hired or newly promoted executives without compliance with such timing and other limitations as provided herein, which Awards may be based on performance during less than the full Plan Year and may be pro rated in the discretion of the Committee.
     b. Participants must achieve the Performance Objectives established by the Committee in order to receive an Award under the Plan. However, the Committee may determine that only the threshold level relating to a Performance Objective must be achieved for Awards to be paid under the Plan. Similarly, the Committee may establish a minimum threshold performance level, a maximum performance level, and one or more intermediate performance levels or ranges, with target award levels or ranges that will correspond to the respective performance levels or ranges included in the Payout Formula.
     c. The Committee may establish multiple Performance Objectives with respect to a single Participant. If more than one Performance Objective is selected by the Committee for a Plan Year, the Performance Objectives will be weighted by the Committee to reflect their relative importance to the Company in the applicable Plan Year. If the Committee establishes a threshold level of achievement with respect to multiple Performance Objectives, Awards will be paid under the Plan upon achievement of threshold levels of one or more of the specified Performance Objectives.
     d. The Committee may in its sole discretion modify such Payout Formulas, Performance Objectives or the related minimum acceptable level of achievement, in whole or in part, as the Committee deems appropriate and equitable (i) to reflect a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Company or its Subsidiaries, the manner in which it conducts its business, or other events or circumstances or (ii) in the event that a Participant's responsibilities materially change during a Plan Year or the Participant is transferred to a position that is not designated or eligible to participate in the Plan.
     e. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section IV to the contrary, the Committee shall establish the Performance Objectives (including the relative weight of multiple Performance Objectives) and Payout Formulas for each Covered Employee not later than 90 days following the beginning of the Plan Year or before 25% of the Plan Year has elapsed, whichever is earlier. Furthermore, the Committee shall not modify the Performance Objectives (including the relative weight of multiple Performance Objectives) and Payout Formulas
 
applicable to a Covered Employee to the extent that such action would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the Award under Section 162(m) of the Code.
     f. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in no event shall an Award paid to any Participant for a Plan Year exceed $7,000,000.
     a. Promptly following the end of each Plan Year, the Committee shall meet to certify achievement of the Performance Objectives for the applicable Plan Year and, if such Performance Objectives have been achieved, to review management recommendations and approve actual Awards under the Plan pursuant to the applicable Payout Formulas. Such certification of achievement of the Performance Objectives of a Covered Employee shall be documented in writing (and otherwise conform to the requirements of applicable regulations under Section 162(m) of the Code) prior to the payout of such Award to a Covered Employee.
     b. If a Participant's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries is terminated before the last day of a Plan Year due to Disability, death, or Retirement, the Participant's Award shall be pro rated on the basis of the ratio of the number of days of participation during the Plan Year to which the Award relates to the aggregate number of days in such Plan Year. If a Participant's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries is terminated before the last day of a Plan Year for any other reason, then, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, such Participant shall become ineligible to participate in the Plan and shall not receive payment of any Award for any Plan Year that has not ended prior to the Participant's termination of employment.
     c. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Plan, the Committee in its sole discretion may (i) eliminate or reduce the amount of any Award payable to any Participant below that which otherwise would be payable under the Payout Formula, and (ii) except in the case of a Covered Employee, increase the amount of any Award payable to any Participant above that which otherwise would be payable under the Payout Formula to recognize a Participant's individual performance or in other circumstances deemed appropriate by the Committee.
          Subject to Section VI hereof, Awards shall be paid as soon as practicable after the close of the Plan Year, but in no event later than 75 days after the end of the Plan Year to which the Awards relate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion and upon such terms and conditions as it may establish, direct that payments to the Participants (other than Covered Employees) be made during December of the Plan Year in the amount of all or any portion specified by the Committee of the estimated Award for that Plan Year, subject to adjustment as soon as practicable after the end of the Plan Year and the determination of the exact amount of the Award therefore.
 
     a. The Board reserves the right, at any time, to amend, suspend or terminate the Plan, in whole or in part, in any manner, and for any reason, and without the consent of any Participant, Eligible Employee or Beneficiary or other person; provided, that no such amendment, suspension or termination shall adversely affect the payment of any amount for a Plan Year ending prior to the action of the Board amending, suspending or terminating the Plan.
     b. It is the intention of the Company that the Plan qualify for the performance-based compensation exception of Section 162(m) of the Code and the short-term deferral exception of Section 409A of the Code. The Plan and any Awards hereunder shall be administrated in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan or any Awards hereunder to fail to satisfy either such exception shall have no force and effect until amended to so comply (which amendment may be retroactive and may be made by the Company without the consent of any Participant, Eligible Employee or Beneficiary or other person).
     The provisions of the Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
     Nothing contained in the Plan shall give any employee the right to be retained in the employment of the Company or a Subsidiary or affect the right of the Company or a Subsidiary to dismiss any employee. The Plan shall not constitute a contract between the Company or a Subsidiary and any employee. No Participant shall receive any right to be granted an Award hereunder. No Award shall be considered as compensation under any employee benefit plan of the Company or a Subsidiary, except as may be otherwise provided in such employee benefit plan. No reference in the Plan to any other plan or program maintained by the Company shall be deemed to give any Participant or other person a right to benefits under such other plan or program. The Company and its Subsidiaries shall have the right to deduct from all payments made to any person under the Plan any federal, state, local, foreign or other taxes which, in the opinion of the Company and its Subsidiaries are required to be withheld with respect to such payments.
     Except insofar as may otherwise be required by law, no amount payable at any time under the Plan shall be subject in any manner to alienation by anticipation, sale, transfer, assignment, bankruptcy, pledge, attachment, charge or encumbrance of any kind, nor in any
 
manner be subject to the debts or liabilities of a Participant or Beneficiary, and any attempt to so alienate or subject any such amount, whether presently or thereafter payable, shall be void.
     a. Each Participant shall file with the Company a written designation of one or more persons as the Beneficiary who shall be entitled to receive any Award payable under the Plan after his death. A Participant may from time to time, revoke or change his Beneficiary designation without the consent of any prior Beneficiary by filing a new designation with the Company.
     b. The last such designation received by the Company shall be controlling; except that no designation, or change or revocation thereof, shall be effective unless received by the Company prior to the Participant's death, and in no event shall it be effective as of the date prior to such receipt.
     c. If no designation is in effect at the time of a Participant's death, or if no designated Beneficiary survives the Participant, or if such designation, in the Company's discretion, conflicts with applicable law, the Participant's estate shall be deemed to have been designated his Beneficiary and shall receive any Award payable under the Plan after his death.
     d. A Participant's Beneficiary designation made by the Participant in accordance with the terms of the ALLTEL Corporation Performance Incentive Compensation Plan prior to the Effective Date shall constitute a proper Beneficiary designation under the Plan and shall remain in effect after the Effective Date until revoked or otherwise modified by the Participant in accordance with this Article XII.
     If the Committee shall find that a Participant or his Beneficiary to whom an Award is payable under the Plan is unable to care for his affairs because of illness or accident, or is a minor, or has died, then any payment due him or his estate (unless a prior claim therefore has been made by a duly appointed representative) may, if the Committee so directs, be paid to his spouse, child, a relative, an institution maintaining custody of such person or any other person deemed by the Committee to be a proper recipient on behalf of such person otherwise entitled to payment. Any such payment shall be a complete discharge of the liability of the Plan, the Company and the Committee therefore.
     No Participant or Beneficiary shall have any right, title or interest whatsoever in or to any investments which the Company or a Subsidiary may make to aid it in meeting its obligations
 
under the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create, or be construed to create, a trust of any kind, or fiduciary relationship between the Company or a Subsidiary and any Participant or Beneficiary or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company under the Plan, such rights shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company, and no special or separate funds shall be established, and no segregation of assets shall be made, to assure payment thereof.
     The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company expressly to assume this Plan. This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and any successor of or to the Company, including without limitation any persons acquiring directly or indirectly all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company whether by sale, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise (and such successor shall thereafter be deemed the "Company" for the purposes of this Plan), and the heirs, beneficiaries, executors and administrators of each Participant; provided that any successor to this Plan shall not assume any obligation with respect to any Participant for services performed or related compensation earned by the Participant prior the Effective Date or any obligation of Alltel Corporation to such Participant under the Alltel Corporation Incentive Compensation.

 
Exhibit 10.9
     This plan is hereby adopted by Alltel Holding Corp., effective July 1, 2006.
     Pursuant to Section 8.02 of the Employee Benefits Agreement by and between Alltel Corporation and the Company dated as of December 8, 2005 (the "Employee Benefits Agreement"), Alltel Corporation agreed to establish, or cause to be established, a plan for certain individuals, the provisions of which are substantially similar to the provisions of the Alltel Corporation Supplemental Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan (the "AT Plan"). The Company has adopted this Windstream Supplemental Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan (the "Plan") pursuant to the terms of the Employee Benefits Agreement.
     For the purposes hereof, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated:
     "" shall mean the Alltel Corporation Supplemental Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan.
AT Plan
     "" shall mean the Insurance Company.
Claims Fiduciary
     "" shall mean the Consolidated Omnibus Budge Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended.
COBRA
     "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as the same may be amended from time to time.
Code
     "" shall mean Alltel Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation, its corporate successors, and the surviving corporation resulting from any merger or acquisition of Alltel Holding Corp. with or by any other corporation or corporations, including, without limitation, the surviving corporation resulting from the proposed merger between the Company and Valor Communications Group, Inc. pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 8, 2005, among Alltel Corporation, Alltel Holding Corp, and Valor Communications Group, Inc. (which merged corporation is to be known as Windstream Corporation).
Company
     "" shall mean (i) those individuals identified on Exhibit A who participated in the AT Plan on the date immediately preceding the Effective Date whose participation in the Plan is provided under the Employee Benefits Agreement and (ii) such other Employees specifically designated by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company to participate in the Plan.
Covered Employee
 
     "" shall mean dependents as defined in Section 152 of the Code to include generally any member of a Covered Employee's family over one-half of whose support is furnished by the Covered Employee.
Dependent
     "" shall mean July 1, 2006.
Effective Date
     "" shall mean any salaried employee of the Company or of any Subsidiary who is classified as a management employee by the Company or Subsidiary or is an officer of the Company or a Subsidiary.
Employee
     "" shall herein mean amounts paid for the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, or for the purpose of affecting any structure or function of the body, including but not limited to dental expenses, drugs, prescriptions, and prosthetic devices, together with amounts paid for transportation primarily for and essential to the medical or dental care defined in the first clause of this sentence, all as defined in Section 213(d)(1) of the Code.
Medical Care Expenses
     "" shall mean the insurance carrier with whom the officers of the Company have entered into the Policy.
Insurance Company
     "" shall mean the supplemental medical expense reimbursement and additional medically related fringe benefit plan, as set forth herein together with the Policy, which plan shall be called the "Windstream Supplemental Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan".
Plan
     "" shall mean the fiscal year of the Company which is currently the calendar year.
Plan Year
     "" shall mean the insurance contract(s) entered into by the Company with the Insurance Company for the purpose of paying benefits under this Plan.
Policy
     "" shall mean a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States or of any state or the District of Columbia of which 50 percent or more of the issued and outstanding stock is owned by the Company or by a Subsidiary.
Subsidiary
     On and after Effective Date, the rights and interests and the amount of benefits with respect to all Covered Employees, retirees, their surviving spouses and other Dependents, under the Plan shall be governed by the terms herein provided.
     During the continuance of this Plan, the Policy shall provide for the reimbursement by the Insurance Company, on a non-contributory basis, except as provided in the following paragraph of this Article II, to any Covered Employee of all Medical Care Expenses incurred by that Covered Employee and the spouse and Dependents of such Covered Employee on or after the Effective Date; provided, however, that reimbursement shall be made only in the event and to the
 
extent that payment of such expenses is not provided for under any other insurance policy or policies, whether owned by the Company or the Covered Employee, or under any other health and accident plan, wage continuation plan, any amounts recoverable under any State workers compensation laws, medicare and medicaid to the extent permissible under law, or other similar programs. To the extent of the coverage providing for reimbursement or payment in whole or in part under such insurance policy, plan, or program as defined in the preceding sentence, the Policy shall not provide coverage. The amount to be paid on account of reimbursable Medical Care Expenses for each Covered Employee (and the spouse and other Dependents of such Covered Employee) under the Policy shall not exceed the sum of Three Thousand Dollars ($3,000.00) in any Plan Year.
     Coverage in the Plan will cease at the end of the calendar month in which the date of termination of employment with the Company occurs, except as provided in the immediately following two paragraphs or as provided under the coverage continuation requirements of COBRA.
     With respect to a Covered Employee who attained disabled or retired status with Alltel Corporation prior to January 26, 2001, coverage in the Plan will cease at the end of the calendar month in which death occurs, except as provided in the immediately following paragraph or as provided under the coverage continuation requirements of COBRA.
     With respect to Covered Employees who retired from service with Alltel Corporation or died before January 1, 1987, participation by such retired employees, their spouses and other dependents, or surviving spouses and their dependents, in the Plan shall continue on a non-contributory basis for the remainder of the retired employee's lifetime and until the earlier of the spouse's death or until the spouse remarries.
     As between the Company and any Covered Employee, or the spouse or Dependents of any Covered Employee, this Plan (and the Policy) shall be subject to termination or amendment at any time hereafter by affirmative vote of the Board of Directors of the Company reduced to writing and incorporated in the minutes of the Company; provided, however, that the Company will not effect any such termination or amendment so as to affect any right to claim reimbursement for Medical Care Expenses that arises prior to such termination or amendment.
     In the event any claim for benefits under the Policy is wholly or partially denied by the Insurance Company, notice of the decision shall be furnished to the claimant within a reasonable period of time after receipt of the claim by the Insurance Company. Such notice shall set forth the specified reason for the denial and be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the
 
claimant as provided in Section 503 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA").
     The Claims Fiduciary shall, if requested by the claimant in accordance with procedures established by the Claims Fiduciary, afford such claimant a reasonable opportunity to a full and fair review thereof by the Claims Fiduciary in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 503 of ERISA. The Claims Fiduciary shall provide a Covered Employee or Dependent, upon request and free of charge, with a copy of its appeals procedures. Upon enrollment in the Plan, the Company shall provide each Covered Employee with contact information that may be used to make such a request of the Claims Fiduciary.
     1. . A copy of the Plan shall be given to all present and future Covered Employees.
Plan Documents
     2. . The Plan is maintained primarily for the purpose or providing benefits for a select group of management or highly compensated employees and is designed to qualify as a "top-hat" welfare plan under ERISA, including for purposes of Department of Labor Regulations Section 2520.104-24.
Legal Status
     3. . The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company expressly to assume this Plan. This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and any successor of or to the Company, including without limitation any persons acquiring directly or indirectly all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company whether by sale, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise (and such successor shall thereafter be deemed the "Company" for the purposes of this Plan), and the heirs, beneficiaries, executors and administrators of each Participant.
Successors
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, by its duly authorized officer, has executed this plan as of July 16, 2006.

 
Exhibit 10.10
 
 
 
This plan is hereby adopted by Alltel Holding Corp. (the "Company"), effective July 16, 2006.
      Pursuant to Section 8.01 of the Employee Benefits Agreement by and between Alltel Corporation and Alltel Holding Corp. dated as of December 8, 2005, as amended (the "Employee Benefits Agreement"), (i) the Company agreed to establish, or cause to be established, a plan for Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals (as defined in the Employee Benefits Agreement), the provisions of which are substantially identical to the provisions of the Alltel Corporation Benefit Restoration Plan (the "Alltel Plan") and (ii) the obligations and liabilities with respect to Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals under the Alltel Plan are to be transferred to and assumed by such plan. The Company has adopted this Windstream Benefit Restoration Plan (the "Plan") in accordance with the Employee Benefits Agreement and related Assignment and Assumption Agreement between Alltel Corporation and the Company dated as of July 16, 2006 (the "Assumption Agreement"), including providing for the receipt and administration of the benefits from the Alltel Plan for Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals.
Section 1.01
Recital
.
      The purpose of the Plan is solely to provide benefits in excess of the limitations of Section 415 and Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or corresponding provisions of any subsequent federal tax laws (the "Code"), to a select group of management or highly compensated employees.
Section 1.02
Purpose
.
      The Plan is unfunded, and the rights, if any, of any person to any benefits hereunder shall be the same as any unsecured general creditor of the Company. The benefits payable under the Plan shall be paid by the Company from its general assets.
Section 1.03
Funding
.
      The Plan shall be effective July 16, 2006 (the "Effective Date").
Section 1.04
Effective Date
.
      When the initial letter of a word or phrase is capitalized herein, such word or phrase shall have the meaning hereinafter set forth:
Section 2.01
Definitions
.
 
 
When the initial letter of a word or phrase is capitalized herein and the word or phrase is not defined above, in this Section 2.01, the word or phrase shall have the meaning provided in the Profit-Sharing Plan, the Pension Plan, or the Thrift Plan, as applicable.
     
Section 2.02
Construction and Governing Law
.
      If, for any Plan Year during which an employee is a Participant, the allocation of contributions and forfeitures made to the Participant's account under the Profit-Sharing Plan is less than the allocation that would have been made to the Participant's account under the Profit-Sharing Plan but for the application of the limitations under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, the Participant's Profit-Sharing Plan Excess Benefit Account shall be credited with an amount equal to the percentage of Compensation allocated to Participants (as defined in the Profit-Sharing Plan) in the same "Region" as the Participant under the Profit-Sharing Plan for that Plan Year multiplied by the Participant's Excess Compensation for that Plan Year; determined without regard to the limitation under Section 415 of the Code. Credits to the Participant's Profit-Sharing Plan Excess Benefit Account shall occur as of the date(s) the allocation(s) of contributions to the Participant's account under the Profit-Sharing Plan occur(s).
Section 3.01
Allocations
.
      For periods after the Effective Date, the balance of a Participant's Profit-Sharing Plan Excess Benefit Account shall be credited with gain (or debited with loss) equal to the gain (or loss) the balance would have experienced had it been invested in the Trust Fund of the Profit-Sharing Plan at the same time(s) and in the same manner as an account under the Profit-Sharing Plan. For a Participant who is a Spinco Employee or Spinco Individual (as defined in the Employee Benefits Agreement), see Article VIII regarding such Participant's opening balance.
Section 3.02
Gain (Loss) Adjustments
.
 
      A Participant's Profit-Sharing Plan Excess Benefit Plan Account shall vest at the same time(s) in the same manner, and to the same extent as the Participant's account under the Profit-Sharing Plan.
Section 3.03
Vesting
.
      The Profit-Sharing Plan Excess Benefit Account of a Participant shall, to the extent vested, be paid to the Participant, or to the Beneficiary of such Participant in the event of his death before receipt of all benefits to which he is entitled hereunder in respect of his Profit-Sharing Plan Excess Benefit Plan Account in annual installments over a five-year period beginning as of the first date benefits are payable to a Participant or Beneficiary under the Profit-Sharing Plan. The amount of each installment shall be determined by multiplying the value of the amount of the Profit-Sharing Plan Excess Benefit Account to be distributed by a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the total number of installments remaining to be paid.
Section 3.04
Payment of Profit-Sharing Excess Benefit Account
.
      The Company shall maintain a Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Account on its books for each Participant whose annual additions to the Thrift Plan have been (or would have been, but for the application of Sections 401(k), 401(m), and 402(g) of the Code) restricted by the limitations of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code.
Section 4.01
Accounts
.
      A Participant may elect to reduce his Excess Compensation for a Thrift Plan 401(a)(17) Limitation Measuring Period by an amount not in excess of the amount determined for each period by the Company, and such amount shall be credited to the Participant's Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Account. Any such election shall be in writing on a form provided therefor by the Company, shall be irrevocable and shall be delivered to the Company prior to the first day of the Thrift Plan 401(a)(17) Limitation Measuring Period to which it relates. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, such election may be delivered during the Thrift Plan 401(a)(17) Limitation Measuring Period in which an employee first becomes a Participant with respect to the Thrift Plan, but with respect only to Excess Compensation attributable to services performed subsequent to delivery of the election, provided that the Participant delivers the election to the Company within 30 days after his designation of eligibility to become a Participant. For a Participant who is a Spinco Employee or Spinco Individual (as defined in the Employee Benefits Agreement), see Article VIII regarding the Participant's deferral election for 2006.
Section 4.02
Deferrals
.
      For each Participant employed by a Matching Employer under the Thrift Plan during a Plan Year, there shall be credited to such Participant's Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Account an amount equal to the Safe Harbor Employer Matching Contribution that would have been made to the Thrift Plan for such Plan Year if the Participant's compensation reductions under Section 4.02 above (to the extent of 5% of the Participant's Excess Compensation) had been made under the Thrift Plan and had the Thrift Plan contained no limitation with respect to Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, Section 415 of the Code, Section 402(g) of the Code, Section 401(k) of the Code, and Section 401(m) of the Code. Any credits described in the immediately preceding sentence shall be made only to the extent that the Participant has not received from the Thrift Plan or otherwise a payment in respect of the limitation under the Code. In accordance with the rules established
Section 4.02-A
Allocation of Employer Matching Contributions
.
 
by the Committee, amounts that would constitute compensation under the Thrift Plan but for the deferral of payment thereof by the Participant under the Windstream Management Deferred Compensation Plan and the Windstream Performance Incentive Compensation Plan may be taken into account as compensation reductions for purposes only of determining credits to the Participant's Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Plan Account under this Section 4.02-A for the period when (and in the amount(s)) such deferred amounts would have been paid in the absence of the deferral (but not for the period when such deferred amounts are earned or actually paid).
      Credits to Participant's Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Account under Section 4.02 and 4.02-A shall occur at the same time(s) and in the same manner as such credits would have been made to the appropriate account(s) under the Thrift Plan if the amount(s) of such credits had been Salary Deferral Contributions under the Thrift Plan or Employer Contributions under the Thrift Plan, as applicable.
Section 4.02-B
Credits to Participant's Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Account.
      For periods after the Effective Date, as of the last day of each valuation period of the Profit-Sharing Plan preceding the date as of which the Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Account is paid pursuant to Section 4.05, the balance of each Participant's Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Account, less the amount of any credits under Section 4.02 occurring as of any date within such valuation period, shall be credited with gain (or debited with loss) equal to the gain (or loss) the balance (minus the credits) would have experienced had it been invested in the Trust Fund of the Profit-Sharing Plan at the same time(s) and in the same manner as an employer contribution account under the Profit-Sharing Plan. For a Participant who is a Spinco Employee or Spinco Individual (as defined in the Employee Benefits Agreement), see Article VIII regarding such Participant's opening balance.
Section 4.03
Gain (Loss) Adjustments
.
      A Participant's Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Plan Account attributable to credits with respect to Employer Contributions shall vest in accordance with the vesting provisions of the Thrift Plan. A Participant's Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Plan Account attributable to his Excess Compensation reductions under the Plan shall be fully vested.
Section 4.04
Vesting
.
      The Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Account of a Participant shall, to the extent vested, be paid to the Participant, or to the Beneficiary of such Participant in the event of his death before receipt of all benefits to which he is entitled hereunder in respect of his Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Plan Account in a single lump sum payment as of the first date following the Participant's termination of employment covered by the Profit-Sharing Plan on which benefits are payable to the Participant or Beneficiary under the Profit-Sharing Plan.
Section 4.05
Payment of Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Account
.
      A Participant who is entitled to a vested Pension under the Pension Plan shall be eligible for a retirement benefit under this Article V as hereinafter provided. A Spouse who is entitled to a vested Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity under the Pension Plan shall be eligible for a Spouse death benefit under this Article V as hereinafter provided.
Section 5.01
Eligibility
.
 
      The retirement benefit payable under the Plan to a Participant who is eligible therefor shall be determined as follows:
Section 5.02
Amount of Retirement Benefit
.
     (i) the regular Pension (on a single-life-only basis payable commencing at the later of age 65 or the Participant's Retirement) that the Participant would receive under the Pension Plan if the Pension Plan were not subject to (and contained no provisions with respect to) Section 415 of the Code or Section 401(a)(17) of the Code;
reduced by 
     (ii) the regular Pension payable to the Participant (on a single-life-only basis payable commencing at the later of age 65 or the Participant's Retirement, regardless of the actual form of payment or timing of commencement of payment) under the Pension Plan, determined, if the Participant has not attained his Social Security Retirement Age on the date the retirement benefit under the Plan is to commence, according to a projection based upon the advice of the Actuary of the cost-of-living increase(s) in the limitation under Section 415 of the Code expected to have become effective as of the date the Participant would attain his Social Security Retirement Age;
and, if applicable, further reduced by -
     (iii) if the Participant has not attained age 65 on the date the retirement benefit under the Plan is to commence, the amount of the retirement benefit shall be reduced for commencement prior to age 65 to the same extent (if any) that the Participant's Pension under the Pension Plan would have been reduced for commencement prior to age 65 if it had commenced as of the date the retirement benefit under the Plan commenced.
      The Spouse death benefit payable under the Plan to a Spouse who is eligible therefor shall be determined as follows:
Section 5.03
Amount of Spouse Death Benefit
.
     (i) the Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity that such Spouse would receive under the Pension Plan based on the regular Pension (on a single-life-only basis payable commencing at the later of age 65 or the Participant's death) the Participant with respect to whom the Spouse death benefit is payable would have received if the Pension Plan were not subject to (and contained no provisions with respect to) Section 415 of the Code or Section 401(a)(17) of the Code;
reduced by 
     (ii) the Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity payable to such Spouse under the Pension Plan (regardless of the actual form of payment or timing of commencement of payment), based on the regular Pension (on a single-life-only basis payable commencing at the later of age 65 or the Participant's death) the Participant with respect to whom the Spouse death benefit is payable would have received, determined, if the Participant had not attained or would not if he had survived have attained his Social Security Retirement Age on the date the death benefit under the Plan is to commence, according to a projection based upon the advice of the Actuary of the cost-of living increase(s) in the limitation under Section 415 of the Code expected to have become effective as of the date the Participant would have attained his Social Security Retirement Age;
 
and, if applicable, further reduced by -
     (iii) if the Participant with respect to whom the Spouse death benefit is payable had not attained or would not if he had survived have attained age 65 on the date the Spouse death benefit under the plan is to commence, the Spouse death benefit shall be reduced for commencement prior to age 65 to the same extent (if any) that the Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity under the Pension Plan would have been reduced for commencement prior to the Participant's age 65 if it had commenced as of the date the death benefit under the Plan commenced.
      The benefits under this Article V shall vest at the same time(s), in the same manner, and to the same extent as the Participant's Accrued Pension under the Pension Plan.
Section 5.04
Vesting
.
      The form of payment of the retirement benefit or Spouse death benefit as determined under this Article V shall be a monthly amount payable monthly as of the first day of each month for the life only of the retired Participant or Spouse, as applicable, except that, if a Participant receives his Pension benefit under the Pension Plan commencing as of the same date as the commencement date of his retirement benefit hereunder, and in a form of payment other than a single-life-annuity (for the Participant's life), the Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion exercised on or before the date the first payment thereof is made, direct that the retired Participant's retirement benefit under the Plan be paid in the form in which the retired Participant's retirement benefit under the Pension Plan is paid, in which case the amounts payable under the Plan in the alternative form of payment shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the normal form of payment under the Plan.
Section 5.05
Form of Payment
.
      Payment of a Participant's retirement benefit under the Plan shall commence as of the first day of the first month for which the Participant is eligible to commence his Pension under the Pension Plan. Any Spouse death benefit under the Plan shall commence as of the first day of the calendar month next following the later of the calendar month in which the Participant's death occurs or the calendar month in which the Spouse could elect to receive a Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity under the Pension Plan.
Section 5.06
Time of Payment
.
      Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary:
Section 5.07
Adjustments to Benefits
.
     (i) if the amount of a Participant's Pension or a Spouse's Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity payable under the Pension Plan increases subsequent to the computation of or commencement of payment of the retirement benefit or Spouse death benefit under the Plan  by reason of an increase or increases in the limitation under Section 415 of the Code that were not projected to occur pursuant to clause (ii) of Section 5.02 or clause (ii) of Section 5.03, whichever applies; by reason of commencement of the Participant's Pension or the Spouse's Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity under the Pension Plan as of a date later than the commencement of the Participant's retirement benefit or Spouse's death benefit under the Plan; or by reason of payment of the Participant's Pension under the Pension Plan in a form part or all of which is not subject to the limitations of Section 415 of the Code  the Participant's retirement benefit or Spouse death benefit under the Plan shall be reduced prospectively, and retroactively if a prospective reduction is not sufficient to reflect fully such increase(s),
 
from the effective date (s) of such increase(s) by the Actuarial Equivalent of such increase(s).
     (ii) To the extent that an increase or increases in the limitation under Section 415 of the Code projected to occur pursuant to clause (ii) of Section 5.02 or clause (ii) of Section 5.03, whichever applies, does not or do not occur, the Participant's retirement benefit or Spouse death benefit under the Plan shall be increased prospectively, and retroactively if a prospective increase is not sufficient to reflect fully the non-occurrence of such increase(s), by the Actuarial Equivalent of such increase(s) that did not occur.
     (iii) To the extent that a Participant could not receive on a current basis the full amount of his Pension or a Spouse could not receive on a current basis the full amount of Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity payable under the Pension Plan because of the reduction under the limitation of Section 415 of the Code for commencement of the benefit thereunder prior to the Participant's Social Security Retirement Age, the Participant's retirement benefit under the Plan or Spouse death benefit under the Plan shall be increased prospectively, and retroactively if a prospective increase is not sufficient to reflect fully such reduction in the limitation of Section 415 of the Code, by the Actuarial Equivalent of such reduction in the limitation of Section 415 of the Code.
      The Committee shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan and carrying out the provisions hereof and shall be the "plan administrator" for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time. Any discretionary determination provided for in the Plan with respect to the timing, amount, or form of a Participant's benefit under the Plan shall be made by the Committee. The Plan Administrator may retain auditors, accountants, legal counsel and actuarial counsel selected by it. Any person authorized to act on behalf of the Plan Administrator may act in any such capacity, and any such auditors, accountants, legal counsel and actuarial counsel may be persons acting in a similar capacity for one or more members of the Controlled Group and may be employees of one or more members of the Controlled Group. The opinion of any such auditor, accountant, legal counsel or actuarial counsel shall be full and complete authority and protection in respect to any action taken, suffered or omitted by any person authorized to act on behalf of the Plan Administrator in good faith and in accordance with such opinion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no person shall vote or take action on a matter solely with respect to his own Plan benefit.
Section 6.01
Plan Administrator
.
      The Company shall pay all expenses incurred in the administration of the Plan.
Section 6.02
Expenses
.
      The Company shall keep such records as shall be proper, necessary or desirable to effectuate the purposes of the Plan, including, without in any manner limiting the generality of the foregoing, records and information with respect to the benefits granted to Participants, dates of employment and determinations made hereunder.
Section 6.03
Records
.
 
      The Plan Administrator may, in its sole and absolute discretion, make or cause to be made payment either directly to an incompetent or disabled person, or to the guardian of such person, or to the person having custody of such person, without further liability on the part of the Company, any member of the Controlled Group, the Plan Administrator, or any person, for the amounts of such payment to the person on whose account such payment is made.
Section 6.04
Legal Incompetency
.
      The claims procedures provisions of the Profit-Sharing Plan, Thrift Plan, and the Pension Plan are incorporated herein by reference and shall apply to benefits under Article III, Article IV, and Article V, respectively, of the Plan.
Section 6.05
Claims Procedure
.
      The Board from time to time may amend, suspend, or terminate, in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of the Plan, effective prospectively or retroactively, except that no such action shall permit a Participant to elect to defer the receipt of compensation with respect to services performed prior to such action or an election to defer, nor shall any such action adversely affect the rights of any Participant to or the operation of the Plan with respect to any benefits that have accrued prior to such action.
Section 7.01
Amendments
.
      Neither the establishment or maintenance of the Plan nor the status of an employee as a Participant shall give any Participant any right to be retained in employment; and no Participant and no person claiming under or through such Participant shall have any right or interest in any benefit under the Plan unless and until the terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan affecting such Participant shall have been satisfied.
Section 7.02
No Employment Rights
.
      The right of any Participant or any person claiming under or through a Participant to any benefit or any payment hereunder shall not be subject in any manner to attachment or other legal process for the debts of the Participant or person; and the same shall not be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment or encumbrance.
Section 7.03
Nonalienation
.
      No member of the Board and no officer or employee of any member of the Controlled Group shall be liable to any person for any action taken or omitted in connection with this Plan, nor shall any member of the Controlled Group be liable to any person for any such action or omission. No person shall, because of the Plan, acquire any right to an accounting or to examine the books or the affairs of any member of a Controlled Group. Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to create any trust or fiduciary relationship between any member of the Controlled Group and any Participant or any other person.
Section 7.04
Limitation of Liability
.
      The Committee in its sole and absolute discretion may accelerate the time of payment of any benefit under the Plan to the extent that it deems it equitable or desirable under the circumstances. Any accelerated payment of a benefit (or portion of a benefit) under Article V shall be in a single sum payment that is the Actuarial Equivalent of the benefit (or portion of a benefit) the payment of which is being accelerated.
Section 7.05
Acceleration of Payment
.
 
      The Board may from time to time designate an individual or committee to carry out any duties or responsibilities of the Board hereunder.
Section 7.06
Representative of Board
.
      Each Participant may in the manner prescribed by the Company designate a Beneficiary in writing to receive any and all payments to which he may be entitled under Article III and/or Article IV of the Plan upon his death. If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary in writing in the manner prescribed by the Company, any benefits remaining unpaid at his death shall be paid to his surviving Spouse and if there is no surviving Spouse to the executor or other personal representative of the Participant to be distributed in accordance with the Participant's will or applicable law.
Section 7.07
Designation of Beneficiary
.
      In the event of the reemployment as an employee in any capacity by the Company or a member of the Controlled Group of a Participant whose employment covered under the Plan has terminated, payment of his benefits under the Plan shall be suspended during his period of reemployment to the same extent as payment of his benefits under the Profit-Sharing Plan, the Thrift Plan, the Pension Plan, as applicable, are suspended. The Participant shall accrue additional credit for purposes of increasing his benefits under the Plan with respect to his reemployment period only if he again becomes a Participant as provided in paragraph (l) of Section 2.01.
Section 7.08
Reemployment of a Participant
.
      The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company expressly to assume this Plan. This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and any successor of or the Company, including without limitation any persons acquiring directly or indirectly all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company whether by sale, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise (and such successor shall thereafter be deemed the "Company" for the purposes of this Plan), and the heirs, beneficiaries, executors and administrators of each Participant.
Section 7.09
Successors
.
      . It is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, so as to prevent the inclusion in gross income of any amounts deferred by the Participants under the Plan in a taxable year that is prior to the taxable year or years in which such amounts would otherwise actually be distributed or made available to Participants or their Beneficiaries. This Plan shall be construed, administered, and governed in a manner that effects such intent, and the Company shall not take any action that would be inconsistent with such intent. Any provisions that would cause any amount deferred or payable under the Plan to be includible in the gross income of any Participant or Beneficiary under Section 409A(a)(1) of the Code shall have no force and effect unless and until amended to cause such amount to not be so includible (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code). Any reference in this Plan to Section 409A of the Code will also include any proposed, temporary or final regulations, or any other guidance, promulgated with respect to such Section by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service.
Section 7.10
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
 
      Pursuant to the Employee Benefits Agreement and Assumption Agreement, all obligations and liabilities under the Alltel Plan with respect to the individuals listed on Exhibit A have been assigned and transferred to the Plan. Each individual listed on Exhibit A (a "Transferred Participant") shall become a Participant in the Plan as of the Effective Date.
Section 8.01
Assignment and Assumption
.
      As of the Effective Date, each Transferred Participant shall have credited to his Profit-Sharing Plan Excess Benefit Account under Article III of the Plan and his Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Account under Article IV of the Plan the amount credited to him under the corresponding account under the Alltel Plan as of the Effective Date (including all amounts earned as of the Effective Date for services performed by such Participant with respect to the Alltel Plan), which amount shall be the value of each Transferred Participant's respective Alltel Plan accounts as of May 31, 2006 as set forth on Exhibit A (which such account balances shall be added to such Exhibit A no later than July 18, 2006) with appropriate adjustments as provided under the Alltel Plan for deferrals and earnings from May 31, 2006 through July 17, 2006. The retirement and spousal death benefit under Article V of the Alltel Plan immediately prior to the Effective Date shall be carried over to the Plan, provided, however, that there shall be no duplication of benefits by reason of this provision and the operation of Article V of the Plan with respect to the Pension Plan (and liabilities transferred (or to be transferred) to the Pension Plan from the Alltel Corporation Pension Plan). On and after the Effective Date, the Transferred Participants shall only be entitled to benefits under the terms and conditions of this Plan and shall cease to have any rights under the terms of the Alltel Plan.
Section 8.02
Accounts and Benefit
.
      The deferral election filed by each Transferred Participant under the Alltel Plan with respect to services performed in 2006 shall continue to govern the deferral of Excess Compensation earned during the 2006 calendar year under the Plan. Such deferral election shall be irrevocable. Transferred Participants shall only be eligible to defer Excess Compensation attributable to services performed during the 2006 calendar year after the Effective Date, subject to the terms and conditions hereof.
Section 8.03
Deferral Election
.
      The elections made by Transferred Participants under the Alltel Plan (including, without limitation, elections as to time and form of payment and designation of Beneficiaries) shall be carried over and shall apply for purposes of the Plan, subject to any change of election rights under the Plan.
Section 8.04
Other Elections
.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Alltel Holding Corp. has caused this Plan to be executed as of this July 16, day of July, 2006.

 
Exhibit 10.11
This plan is hereby adopted by Alltel Holding Corp., effective as of July 16, 2006.
     Pursuant to Section 8.03 of the Employee Benefits Agreement by and between Alltel Corporation and the Company dated as of December 8, 2005, as amended (the "Employee Benefits Agreement"), (i) the Company agreed to establish, or cause to be established, a plan for Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals (as defined in the Employee Benefits Agreement), the provisions of which are substantially identical to the provisions of the Alltel Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (including any sub-plans related thereto) (the "1993 Plan"), and (ii) the obligations and liabilities with respect to Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals under the 1993 Plan were required to be transferred to and assumed by such plan. The Company has adopted this Windstream Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") to administer the benefits of the Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals that were transferred from the 1993 Plan pursuant to the Employee Benefits Agreement and related Assignment and Assumption Agreement between Alltel Corporation and the Company dated as of July 16, 2006 (the "Assumption Agreement").
     For the purposes hereof, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated:
     1.1. shall have the meaning given such term in the Recitals.
Assumption Agreement
     1.2. shall mean the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated in accordance with the Plan to receive the amount of the remaining balance of the Deferred Compensation Account in the event of the death of the Participant prior to his receipt of the entire amount of the Deferred Compensation Account.
Beneficiary
     1.3. shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
     1.4. shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     1.5. shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board or its delegate.
Committee
     1.6. shall mean Alltel Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation, and its successors and survivors, including, without limitation, the surviving corporation resulting from the proposed merger between the Company and Valor Communications Group, Inc. pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of December 8, 2005, among Alltel
Company
 
Corporation, Alltel Holding Corp., and Valor Communications Group, Inc. (which merged corporation is to be known as Windstream Corporation).
     1.7. shall mean the bookkeeping account maintained on behalf of each Participant in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, as adjusted for earnings as provided in Section 2.3 hereof.
Deferred Compensation Account
     1.8. shall mean the distribution election agreement filed by the Participant under the 1993 Plan, including any election filed pursuant to Notice 2005-1, Q&A-19(c) and the applicable proposed Treasury regulations issued under Section 409A of the Code. The Distribution Elections of the Participants are attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Distribution Election
     1.9. shall mean July 16, 2006.
Effective Date
     1.10. shall have the meaning given such term in the Recitals.
Employee Benefits Agreement
     1.11. shall have the meaning given such term in the Recitals.
1993 Plan
     1.12. shall mean each individual listed on Exhibit A who, in conjunction with his Beneficiary, has not received a complete distribution of his Deferred Compensation Account.
Participant
     1.13. shall mean the deferred compensation plan, as set forth herein, together with all amendments hereto, which Plan shall be called the "Windstream Executive Deferred Compensation Plan".
Plan
     1.14. shall mean any corporation or other entity or enterprise, whether incorporated or unincorporated, of which at least a majority of the securities or other interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or others serving similar functions with respect to such corporation or other entity or enterprise is owned by the Company or other entity or enterprise of which the Company directly or indirectly owns securities or other interests having all the voting power.
Subsidiary
     2.1. . The individuals listed on Exhibit A shall be the Participants of the Plan as of the Effective Date. Plan participation shall be limited to those Participants listed on Exhibit A as of the Effective Date and no individual may become a Participant after the Effective Date. Participants shall not be entitled to defer compensation for any year pursuant to this Plan.
Participation
     2.2. . As of the Effective Date, each Participant shall have credited to his or her Deferred Compensation Account the amount credited to his or her Deferred Compensation Account under the 1993 Plan immediately prior to the Effective Date, as set forth opposite each such Participant's name on Exhibit B to the Assumption Agreement. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the elections made by such Participants under the 1993 Plan (including, without limitation, elections regarding timing and
Deferred Compensation Account
 
manner of payment of benefits and designation of Beneficiaries) shall be carried over and shall apply for purposes of the Plan, subject to any change of election rights under the Plan. On and after the Effective Date, the Participants shall only be entitled to benefits under the terms and conditions of this Plan and shall cease to have any rights under the terms of the 1993 Plan.
     2.3. . From and after July 18, 2006, each Participant's Deferred Compensation Account will be credited with gains, losses and earnings in accordance with the investment crediting options and procedures in effect for each Participant under the 1993 Plan and Exhibit C.
Crediting of Earnings
     2.4. . The amount of the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account, together with any interest and earnings credited to the Deferred Compensation Account in accordance with Section 2.3, shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum or in a number of approximately equal annual installments (not to exceed 5), as designated by the Participant on the Distribution Election. The lump sum payment or the first annual installment, as the case may be, shall be made on the date specified by the Participant on his or her Distribution Election. In the event that a Deferred Compensation Account is paid in installments (i) the amount of each installment shall equal the quotient obtained by dividing the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account balance as of the end of the day preceding the date of such installment payment by the number of installment payments remaining to be paid at the time of the calculation, and (ii) the amount of such Deferred Compensation Account remaining unpaid shall continue to be credited with gains, losses and earnings as provided in Section 2.3 hereof.
Payment of Deferred Compensation Account
     2.5. . In the event of the death of a Participant, the amount of the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid to the Beneficiary, designated on a form provided by the Company, in accordance with the Participant's Distribution Election and Section 2.4 of this Article. A Participant's Beneficiary designation may be changed at any time prior to his death by execution and delivery of a new Beneficiary designation on a form provided by the Company. The Beneficiary designation on file with the Company at the time of the Participant's death which bears the latest date shall govern, and any Beneficiary designation received thereafter shall be disregarded. In the absence of a Beneficiary designation, the Participant's Beneficiary shall be his estate. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Beneficiary designation filed by the Participant under the 1993 Plan shall continue to apply to this Plan unless changed as provided herein.
Death of Participant
     2.6. . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the annual installment payments elected by a Participant would result in an annual payment of less than $500.00, the entire amount of the Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid in a lump sum in accordance with Section 2.4 of this Article.
Small Payments
     2.7. . A Participant or Beneficiary shall have the right to request, on a form provided by the Committee, an accelerated distribution of all or a portion of his Deferred Compensation Account in a lump sum if he experiences an unforeseeable emergency within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. The Committee shall have the sole and absolute discretion to determine whether to grant such a request and the amount to distribute pursuant to such request. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the amounts distributed to a Participant
Hardship
 
or Beneficiary may not exceed the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy such unforeseeable emergency, which may include amounts necessary to pay any federal, state or local income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated as a result of the payment(s), after taking into account the extent to which the hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship). Payment shall be made ten (10) days following the determination by the Committee that a hardship withdrawal will be permitted.
     2.8. . The entire balance of a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account shall be distributed to him in a single lump sum payment ten (10) days following the occurrence of a "Change in Control" (or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter), as such term is defined in the Windstream Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, , , that such occurrence also constitutes a "change in the ownership or effective control" or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. For purposes of this Agreement, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to have occurred by reason of any transaction or series of transactions contemplated by the (i) Distribution Agreement by and between Alltel Corporation and the Company dated as of December 8, 2005 or (ii) Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 8, 2005, among Alltel Corporation, the Company, and Valor Communications Group, Inc.
Change in Control
provided
however
     2.9. . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion, make or cause to be made payment either directly to an incompetent or disabled person to whom any payment is owed under the Plan, or to the guardian of such person, or to the person having custody of such person, without further liability for the amount of such payment on the part of the Company or any other person to the person on whose account such payment is made.
Legal Incompetency
     2.10. . Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, and notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, a Participant may, no later than December 31, 2006 (or such earlier date specified by the Committee), elect on a form provided by the Company, and subject to the terms and conditions established by the Committee, to (i) change the date of payment of his Deferred Compensation Account to a date otherwise permitted under Section 409A of the Code; or (ii) change the form of payment of his Deferred Compensation Account to a form of payment otherwise permitted under Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a Participant may not cause payments to be made in 2006. This Section 2.10 is intended to comply with Notice 2005-1, Q&A-19(c) and the applicable proposed Treasury regulations issued under Section 409A of the Code and shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with such intent. Any amendment of a Distribution Election which does not satisfy the conditions set forth above shall be of no force or effect.
Amendment of Distribution Election
 
     3.1. . The Committee shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan and for carrying out the provisions hereof and shall be the "plan administrator" for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time. The Committee shall have all such powers as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Plan, including the power to determine all questions relating to eligibility for and the amount in each Deferred Compensation Account and all questions pertaining to claims for benefits and procedures for claim review; to resolve all other questions arising under the Plan, including any questions of construction and any factual determinations; and to take such further action as the Committee shall deem advisable in the administration of the Plan. The Committee shall have sole and absolute discretion in the exercise of its powers of administration of the Plan, and the actions taken and the decisions made by the Committee under the Plan shall be final and binding upon all interested parties. In accordance with the provisions of Section 503 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, the Committee shall provide a procedure for handling claims under the Plan. Such procedure shall be in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary of Labor and shall provide adequate written notice within a reasonable period of time with respect to the denial of any claim as well as a reasonable opportunity for a full and fair review by the Committee of any such denial. The Committee may retain auditors, accountants, legal counsel and actuarial counsel selected by it. Any person authorized to act on behalf of the Committee may act in any such capacity, and any such auditors, accountants, legal counsel and actuarial counsel may be persons acting in a similar capacity for one or more Subsidiaries and may be employees of one or more Subsidiaries. The opinion of any such auditor, accountant, legal counsel or actuarial counsel shall be full and complete authority and protection in respect to any action taken, suffered or omitted by any person authorized to act on behalf of the Committee in good faith and in accordance with such opinion.
General
     3.2. . The Company shall prepare and hand deliver or mail by first class mail to each Participant by March 1 of each year, a statement of his Deferred Compensation Account.
Annual Statement
     The Company reserves the right to amend or terminate the Plan at any time by action of the Board or its delegate, except that that no such action shall adversely affect any Participant or beneficiary who has a Deferred Compensation Account (including the right of Participants to make a new distribution election under Section 2.10), or result in any change in the timing or manner of payment of the amount of any Deferred Compensation Account, without the consent of the affected Participant or Beneficiary. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the limitation requiring the consent of Participants or their Beneficiaries to certain actions shall not apply to any amendment or termination that is deemed necessary by the Company to ensure compliance with Section 409A of the Code. In the event that the Plan is terminated, the amounts allocated to a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account shall be distributed to the Participant or his Beneficiary on the dates on which the Participant or his Beneficiary would otherwise receive benefits hereunder without regard to the termination of the Plan.
 
     5.1. . Except as permitted by the Plan, no right or interest under the Plan of any Participant or Beneficiary shall, without the written consent of the Company, be (i) assignable or transferable in any manner, (ii) subject to alienation, anticipation, sale, pledge, encumbrance, attachment, garnishment or other legal process or (iii) in any manner liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of the Participant or Beneficiary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, the Company shall honor a judgment, order or decree from a state domestic relations court which requires the payment of part or all of a Participant's or Beneficiary's interest under this Plan to an "alternate payee" as defined in Section 414(p) of the Code.
Nonalienation
     5.2. . The Plan shall create only a contractual obligation on the part of the Company to make payments (subject to tax and other withholding required by law) when due in accordance with the Plan out of the general assets of the Company. No Participant, Beneficiary, or other party claiming under the Plan shall have any interest in any specific asset of the Company. To the extent that any party acquires the right to receive payments under the Plan, such right shall be equivalent to that of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, maintain one or more trusts for the purpose of providing for payments under the Plan. Any such trust or trusts may be revocable or irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors. To the extent that any amounts payable under the Plan are actually paid from any such trust, the Company shall have no further obligation with respect thereto, but to the extent not so paid, such amounts shall remain the obligation of, and shall be paid by, the Company.
Nature of Payment Obligation
     5.3. . Neither the establishment or maintenance of the Plan nor the status of a person as an employee or a Participant shall give any person any right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary; and no Participant, Beneficiary, or person claiming under or through a Participant shall have any right or interest in any benefit under the Plan unless and until the terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan affecting the Participant shall have been satisfied. The provisions of the Plan shall not be construed as giving any person, firm or entity any legal or equitable right as against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, their officers, employees, or directors, except any such rights as are specifically provided for in the Plan or are hereafter created in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Plan.
No Employment or Other Rights
     5.4. . No member of the Board or Committee and no officer, employee, or director of the Company or any Subsidiary shall be liable to any person for any action taken or omitted in connection with the Plan, nor shall any Subsidiary other than the Company be liable to any person for any such action or omission, and the sole liability of the Company under the Plan shall be to make the payments provided for under the Plan when due. No person shall, because of the Plan, acquire any right to an accounting or to examine the books or the affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary. Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to create any trust or fiduciary relationship.
Limitation of Liability
 
     5.5. . Words used herein in the masculine gender shall be construed to include the feminine gender where appropriate and the words used herein in the singular or plural shall be construed as being in the plural or singular where appropriate. Article and Section titles are for convenience of reference only and shall not be considered in construing the provisions of the Plan. The Plan shall be construed, enforced, and administered and the validity thereof determined in accordance with the law of the State of Delaware, to the extent that applicable federal law does not apply to the Plan.
Construction and Governing Law
     5.6. . The invalidity and unenforceability of any particular provision of the Plan shall not affect any other provision hereof, and the Plan shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or unenforceable provision were omitted herefrom.
Severability
     5.7. . The Company shall pay all expenses incurred by it in the administration of the Plan.
Expenses
     5.8. . The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company expressly to assume this Plan. This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and any successor of or to the Company, including without limitation any persons acquiring directly or indirectly all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company whether by sale, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise (and such successor shall thereafter be deemed the "Company" for the purposes of this Plan), and the heirs, beneficiaries, executors and administrators of each Participant.
Successors
     5.9. . To the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code, the Company and its Subsidiaries may withhold or cause to be withheld from any amounts deferred or payable under the Plan all federal, state, local and other taxes as shall be legally required.
Withholding of Taxes
     5.10. . Any notice, filing or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Company under the Plan shall be hand delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail to Company at the address set forth below or to such other address as the Company may have furnished to a Participant or Beneficiary in writing in accordance with the Plan:
Communications
Windstream Corporation 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, Arkansas 72212 Attention: General Counsel
Except as provided in Article III with respect to account statements, any notice, filing, other communication or payment required or permitted to be given or made to a Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan shall be hand delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail to the Participant or Beneficiary. A notice, filing, communication, or payment mailed to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be to such address as is given in the records of the Company or to such other address as the Participant or Beneficiary may have furnished to the Company in writing in accordance with the Plan. Notices to the Company shall be deemed given as of the date of hand
 
delivery or, if properly mailed, as of the date of actual receipt. Notices to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be deemed given as of the date of hand delivery or, if properly mailed, as of the date shown on the postmark on the receipt for registration or certification, except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon actual receipt.
     5.11. . It is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, so as to prevent the inclusion in gross income of any amounts deferred by the Participants under the Plan in a taxable year that is prior to the taxable year or years in which such amounts would otherwise actually be distributed or made available to Participants or their Beneficiaries. This Plan shall be construed, administered, and governed in a manner that effects such intent, and the Company shall not take any action that would be inconsistent with such intent. Any provisions that would cause any amount deferred or payable under the Plan to be includible in the gross income of any Participant or Beneficiary under Section 409A(a)(1) of the Code shall have no force and effect unless and until amended to cause such amount to not be so includible (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code). Any reference in this Plan to Section 409A of the Code will also include any proposed, temporary or final regulations, or any other guidance, promulgated with respect to such Section by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Alltel Holding Corp. has caused this Plan to be executed as of this 16th day of July, 2006.

 
Exhibit 10.12
     This plan is hereby adopted by Alltel Holding Corp., effective as of July 16, 2006.
     Pursuant to Section 8.04 of the Employee Benefits Agreement by and between Alltel Corporation and the Company dated as of December 8, 2005, as amended (the "Employee Benefits Agreement"), (i) the Company agreed to establish, or cause to be established, a plan for Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals (as defined in the Employee Benefits Agreement), the provisions of which are substantially identical to the provisions of the Alltel Corporation 1998 Management Deferred Compensation Plan (including any sub-plans related thereto) (the "1998 Plan"), and (ii) the obligations and liabilities with respect to Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals under the 1998 Plan were required to be transferred to and assumed by such plan. The Company has adopted this Windstream Management Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") to administer the benefits of the Spinco Employees and Spinco Individuals that were transferred from the 1998 Plan pursuant to the Employee Benefits Agreement and related Assignment and Assumption Agreement between Alltel Corporation and the Company dated as of July 16, 2006 (the "Assumption Agreement").
     For the purposes hereof, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated:
     1.1. shall have the meaning given such term in the Recitals.
Assumption Agreement
     1.2. shall mean the beneficiary(ies) determined in accordance with the Plan to receive payment of the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account in the event of the death of the Participant prior to payment to him of his Deferred Compensation Account.
Beneficiary
     1.3. shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
     1.4. shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     1.5. shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board, or its delegate.
Committee
     1.6. of a Participant shall mean Incentive Compensation and Salary that, but for the provisions of the Plan, would be paid in cash (or by check) to a Participant by the Company, a Subsidiary, Alltel Corporation or its affiliates on or after the Effective Date, excluding, however, any amount that, but for the provisions of the Plan, would be paid to a
Compensation
 
person who on the date of payment is no longer an employee, except Salary for the pay period in which the employee's status as an employee terminates.
     1.7. shall mean Alltel Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation and its successors and survivors, including, without limitation, the surviving corporation resulting from the proposed merger between the Company and Valor Communications Group, Inc. pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of December 8, 2005, among Alltel Corporation, Alltel Holding Corp., and Valor Communications Group, Inc. (which merged corporation is to be known as Windstream Corporation).
Company
     1.8. shall mean the deferral election agreement filed by the Participant under the 1998 Plan with respect to compensation earned during 2006. The Deferral Elections of the Participants are attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Deferral Election
     1.9. shall mean a bookkeeping account on which the amount of Compensation that is deferred by a Participant under the Plan and any adjustments thereto in accordance with the Plan shall be recorded.
Deferred Compensation Account
     1.10. shall mean the distribution election agreement filed by the Participant under the 1998 Plan, including any election filed pursuant to Notice 2005-1, Q&A-19(c) and the applicable proposed Treasury regulations issued under Section 409A of the Code. The Distribution Elections of the Participants are attached hereto as Exhibit C.
Distribution Election
     1.11. shall mean July 16, 2006.
Effective Date
     1.12. shall have the meaning given such term in the Recitals.
Employee Benefits Agreement
     1.13. shall mean the gross amount payable in cash (or by check), if any, under the Windstream Performance Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time, or the Alltel Corporation Performance Incentive Compensation Plan (or any comparable plan or program), as amended from time to time, for services rendered during the 2006 calendar year by a Participant.
Incentive Compensation
     1.14. shall have the meaning given such term in the Recitals.
1998 Plan
     1.15. shall, except as otherwise provided in Section 3.3, mean a percentage equal to the "Prime Rate" as published in the first issue (in which "Prime Rate" is published) of the Wall Street Journal during each year, plus two hundred (200) basis points.
Interest Rate
     1.16. shall mean each individual listed on Exhibit A who, in conjunction with his Beneficiary, has not received a complete distribution of his Deferred Compensation Account.
Participant
     1.17. shall mean the deferred compensation plan set forth herein, together with all amendments hereto, which shall be called the "Windstream Management Deferred Compensation Plan".
Plan
 
     1.18. shall mean the gross base salary of a Participant payable in cash (or by check) by the Company, a Subsidiary, Alltel Corporation or its affiliates for services rendered by the Participant during the 2006 calendar year.
Salary
     1.19. shall mean any corporation or other entity or enterprise, whether incorporated or unincorporated, of which at least a majority of the securities or other interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or others serving similar functions with respect to such corporation or other entity or enterprise is owned by the Company or other entity or enterprise of which the Company directly or indirectly owns securities or other interests having all the voting power.
Subsidiary
     2.1. . The individuals listed on Exhibit A shall be the Participants of the Plan as of the Effective Date. Plan participation shall be limited to those Participants listed on Exhibit A and no individual may become a Participant after the Effective Date.
Participation
     2.2. . The Deferral Election filed by each Participant under the 1998 Plan shall continue to govern the deferral of any Compensation under the Plan. Such Deferral Election shall be irrevocable. Participants shall only be eligible to defer Compensation attributable to services performed during the 2006 calendar year, subject to the terms and conditions hereof.
Deferral Election
     3.1. . The Company shall establish and maintain for each Participant a Deferred Compensation Account. As of the Effective Date, each Participant shall have credited to his or her Deferred Compensation Account the amount credited to his or her Deferred Compensation Account under the 1998 Plan immediately prior to the Effective Date, as set forth opposite each such Participant's name on Exhibit B to the Assumption Agreement.. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the elections made by Participants under the 1998 Plan (including, without limitation, deferral elections, elections regarding timing and manner of payment of benefits and designation of Beneficiaries) shall be carried over and shall apply for purposes of the Plan, subject to any change of election rights under the Plan. On and after the Effective Date, the Participants shall only be entitled to benefits under the terms and conditions of this Plan and shall cease to have any rights under the terms of the 1998 Plan.
Deferred Compensation Accounts
     3.2. . The amount of Compensation (if any) deferred by a Participant under the Plan for the 2006 calendar year shall be credited to the Deferred Compensation Account of the Participant on the date the Compensation deferred otherwise would have been paid to the Participant. Each Deferred Compensation Account shall be debited to reflect any payment of all or any portion of the balance thereof under Article IV as of the date the payment thereof occurs. For such purpose,
Account Adjustment (Other Than For Hypothetical Interest)
 
payment shall be deemed to occur as of the date on which payment is transmitted to the payee in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
     3.3. . As of the close of business on each December 31st occurring prior to the full payment thereof as specified by Article IV, each Deferred Compensation Account shall be credited with an amount equal to the product of: (a) the balance of the Deferred Compensation Account as of the close of business on that December 31st; and (b) the Interest Rate for the immediately succeeding year; , , that for the 2006 Plan year, interest shall accrue from July 18, 2006 through December 31, 2006. As of the close of business on the day immediately preceding the date as of which payment of a Deferred Compensation Account occurs under Article IV (other than Section 4.3), the Deferred Compensation Account shall be credited with an amount equal to the product of: (a) the balance of the Deferred Compensation Account as of the close of business on that day; (b) the Interest Rate for the year during which the payment occurs; and (c) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days that have elapsed subsequent to the immediately preceding December 31st through (and including) the date that payment occurs, and the denominator of which is 365. For purposes of the immediately preceding sentence, payment shall be deemed to occur as of the date on which payment is transmitted to the payee in accordance with the terms of the Plan. If the Interest Rate is no longer published, or the basis on which the Interest Rate is changed significantly as determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion, the Committee shall timely, in its sole and absolute discretion but in good faith, determine by written action a substitute interest rate reasonably comparable to the Interest Rate, which prospectively shall be used as the "Interest Rate" for purposes of the Plan. If any substitute interest rate is no longer published, or the basis on which the substitute interest rate is changed significantly as determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion, the Committee shall timely, in its sole and absolute discretion but in good faith, determine by written action another substitute interest rate reasonably comparable to the substitute interest rate, which prospectively shall be used as the "Interest Rate" for the purposes of the Plan.
Hypothetical Interest Credits
provided
however
For any year in which payment of a Deferred Compensation Account is made in installments pursuant to Article IV and in lieu of the hypothetical interest credit provided above, as of the close of business on the day immediately preceding the date as of which the installment is made, the Deferred Compensation Account shall be credited with an amount equal to the product of: (a) the balance of the Deferred Compensation Account as of the close of business on that day; (b) the Interest Rate for the year during which the payment occurs; and (c) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days that have elapsed subsequent to the immediately preceding December 31st through (and including) the date that payment occurs, and the denominator of which is 365. For purposes of the immediately preceding sentence, payment shall be deemed to occur as of the date on which payment is transmitted to the payee in accordance with the terms of the Plan. As of the close of business on the immediately succeeding December 31st, the Deferred Compensation Account shall be credited with an amount equal of the product of: (a) the balance of the Deferred Compensation Account as of the close of business on that date; (b) the Interest Rate for the year during which the payment occurs; and (c) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days that have elapsed subsequent to the date on which the installment payment was made, and the denominator of which is 365.
 
     4.1. . The amount of the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account, together with any interest and earnings credited to the Deferred Compensation Account in accordance with Section 3.3, shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum or in a number of approximately equal annual installments (not to exceed 5), as designated by the Participant on the Distribution Election. The lump sum payment or the first annual installment, as the case may be, shall be made on the date specified by the Participant on his or her Distribution Election. Each Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid by the Company by check drawn on the Company to the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary at the earliest time (and as otherwise) provided in this Article IV.
Payment of Deferred Compensation Accounts
     4.2. . In the event of the death of a Participant, the amount of the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid to the Beneficiary, designated on a form provided by the Company, in accordance with the Participant's Distribution Election and Section 4.1 of this Article. A Participant's Beneficiary designation may be changed at any time prior to his death by execution and delivery of a new Beneficiary designation on a form provided by the Company. The Beneficiary designation on file with the Company at the time of the Participant's death which bears the latest date shall govern, and any Beneficiary designation received thereafter shall be disregarded. In the absence of a Beneficiary designation, the Participant's Beneficiary shall be his estate. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Beneficiary designation filed by the Participant under the 1998 Plan shall continue to apply to this Plan unless changed as provided herein.
Death of Participant
     4.3. . A Participant or Beneficiary shall have the right to request, on a form provided by the Committee, an accelerated distribution of all or a portion of his Deferred Compensation Account in a lump sum if he experiences an unforeseeable emergency within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. The Committee shall have the sole and absolute discretion to determine whether to grant such a request and the amount to distribute pursuant to such request. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the amounts distributed to a Participant or Beneficiary may not exceed the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy such unforeseeable emergency, which may include amounts necessary to pay any federal, state or local income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated as a result of the payment(s), after taking into account the extent to which the hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship). Payment shall be made ten (10) days following the determination by the Committee that a hardship withdrawal will be permitted.
Hardship
     4.4. . The entire balance of a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account shall be distributed to him in a single lump sum payment ten (10) days following the occurrence of a "Change in Control" (or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter), as such term is defined in the Windstream Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, , , that such occurrence also constitutes a "change in the ownership or effective control" or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. For purposes of this Agreement, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to have occurred by reason of any transaction or series of
Change in Control
provided
however
 
transactions contemplated by the (i) Distribution Agreement by and between Alltel Corporation and the Company dated as of December 8, 2005 or (ii) Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 8, 2005, among Alltel Corporation, the Company, and Valor Communications Group, Inc.
     4.5. . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Company may, in its sole and absolute discretion, make or cause to be made payment either directly to an incompetent or disabled person to whom any payment is owed under the Plan, or to the guardian of such person, or to the person having custody of such person, without further liability for the amount of such payment on the part of the Company or any other person to the person on whose account such payment is made.
Legal Incompetency
     4.6. . Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, and notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, a Participant may, no later than December 31, 2006 (or such earlier date specified by the Committee), elect on a form provided by the Company, and subject to the terms and conditions established by the Committee, to (i) change the date of payment of his Deferred Compensation Account to a date otherwise permitted under Section 409A of the Code; or (ii) change the form of payment of his Deferred Compensation Account to a form of payment otherwise permitted under Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a Participant may not cause payments to be made in 2006. This Section 4.6 is intended to comply with Notice 2005-1, Q&A-19(c) and the applicable proposed Treasury regulations issued under Section 409A of the Code and shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with such intent. Any amendment of a Distribution Election which does not satisfy the conditions set forth above shall be of no force or effect.
Amendment of Distribution Election
     5.1. . The Committee shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan and for carrying out the provisions hereof and shall be the "plan administrator" for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time. The Committee shall have all such powers as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Plan, including the power to determine all questions relating to eligibility for and the amount in each Deferred Compensation Account and all questions pertaining to claims for benefits and procedures for claim review; to resolve all other questions arising under the Plan, including any questions of construction and any factual determinations; and to take such further action as the Committee shall deem advisable in the administration of the Plan. The Committee shall have sole and absolute discretion in the exercise of its powers of administration of the Plan, and the actions taken and the decisions made by the Committee under the Plan shall be final and binding upon all interested parties. In accordance with the provisions of Section 503 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, the Committee shall provide a procedure for handling claims under the Plan. Such procedure shall be in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary of Labor and shall provide adequate written notice within a reasonable period of time with respect to the denial of any claim as well as a reasonable opportunity for a full and fair review by the Committee of any such denial. The Committee may retain auditors, accountants, legal counsel and actuarial
General
 
counsel selected by it. Any person authorized to act on behalf of the Committee may act in any such capacity, and any such auditors, accountants, legal counsel and actuarial counsel may be persons acting in a similar capacity for one or more Subsidiaries and may be employees of one or more Subsidiaries. The opinion of any such auditor, accountant, legal counsel or actuarial counsel shall be full and complete authority and protection in respect to any action taken, suffered or omitted by any person authorized to act on behalf of the Committee in good faith and in accordance with such opinion.
     5.2. . The Company shall prepare and hand deliver or mail by first class mail to each Participant by March 1 of each year, a statement of his Deferred Compensation Account.
Annual Statement
     The Company reserves the right to amend or terminate the Plan at any time by action of the Board or its delegate, except that that no such action shall adversely affect any Participant or beneficiary who has a Deferred Compensation Account (including the right of Participants to make a new distribution election under Section 4.6), or result in any change in the timing or manner of payment of the amount of any Deferred Compensation Account, without the consent of the affected Participant or Beneficiary. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the limitation requiring the consent of Participants or their Beneficiaries to certain actions shall not apply to any amendment or termination that is deemed necessary by the Company to ensure compliance with Section 409A of the Code. In the event that the Plan is terminated, the amounts allocated to a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account shall be distributed to the Participant or his Beneficiary on the dates on which the Participant or his Beneficiary would otherwise receive benefits hereunder without regard to the termination of the Plan.
     7.1. . Except as permitted by the Plan, no right or interest under the Plan of any Participant or Beneficiary shall, without the written consent of the Company, be (i) assignable or transferable in any manner, (ii) subject to alienation, anticipation, sale, pledge, encumbrance, attachment, garnishment or other legal process or (iii) in any manner liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of the Participant or Beneficiary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, the Company shall honor a judgment, order or decree from a state domestic relations court which requires the payment of part or all of a Participant's or Beneficiary's interest under this Plan to an "alternate payee" as defined in Section 414(p) of the Code.
Nonalienation
     7.2. . The Plan shall create only a contractual obligation on the part of the Company to make payments (subject to tax and other withholding required by law) when due in accordance with the Plan out of the general assets of the Company. No
Nature of Payment Obligation
 
Participant, Beneficiary, or other party claiming under the Plan shall have any interest in any specific asset of the Company. To the extent that any party acquires the right to receive payments under the Plan, such right shall be equivalent to that of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, maintain one or more trusts for the purpose of providing for payments under the Plan. Any such trust or trusts may be revocable or irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors. To the extent that any amounts payable under the Plan are actually paid from any such trust, the Company shall have no further obligation with respect thereto, but to the extent not so paid, such amounts shall remain the obligation of, and shall be paid by, the Company.
     7.3. . Neither the establishment or maintenance of the Plan nor the status of a person as an employee or a Participant shall give any person any right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary; and no Participant, Beneficiary, or person claiming under or through a Participant shall have any right or interest in any benefit under the Plan unless and until the terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan affecting the Participant shall have been satisfied. The provisions of the Plan shall not be construed as giving any person, firm or entity any legal or equitable right as against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, their officers, employees, or directors, except any such rights as are specifically provided for in the Plan or are hereafter created in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Plan.
No Employment or Other Rights
     7.4. . No member of the Board or Committee and no officer, employee, or director of the Company or any Subsidiary shall be liable to any person for any action taken or omitted in connection with the Plan, nor shall any Subsidiary other than the Company be liable to any person for any such action or omission, and the sole liability of the Company under the Plan shall be to make the payments provided for under the Plan when due. No person shall, because of the Plan, acquire any right to an accounting or to examine the books or the affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary. Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to create any trust or fiduciary relationship.
Limitation of Liability
     7.5. . Words used herein in the masculine gender shall be construed to include the feminine gender where appropriate and the words used herein in the singular or plural shall be construed as being in the plural or singular where appropriate. Article and Section titles are for convenience of reference only and shall not be considered in construing the provisions of the Plan. The Plan shall be construed, enforced, and administered and the validity thereof determined in accordance with the law of the State of Delaware, to the extent that applicable federal law does not apply to the Plan.
Construction and Governing Law
     7.6. . The invalidity and unenforceability of any particular provision of the Plan shall not affect any other provision hereof, and the Plan shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or unenforceable provision were omitted herefrom.
Severability
     7.7. . The Company shall pay all expenses incurred by it in the administration of the Plan.
Expenses
 
     7.8. . The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company expressly to assume this Plan. This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and any successor of or to the Company, including without limitation any persons acquiring directly or indirectly all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company whether by sale, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise (and such successor shall thereafter be deemed the "Company" for the purposes of this Plan), and the heirs, beneficiaries, executors and administrators of each Participant.
Successors
     7.9. . To the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code, the Company and its Subsidiaries may withhold or cause to be withheld from any amounts deferred or payable under the Plan all federal, state, local and other taxes as shall be legally required.
Withholding of Taxes
     7.10. . Any notice, filing or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Company under the Plan shall be hand delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail to Company at the address set forth below or to such other address as the Company may have furnished to a Participant or Beneficiary in writing in accordance with the Plan:
Communications
Windstream Corporation 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, Arkansas 72212 Attention: General Counsel
Except as provided in Article V with respect to account statements, any notice, filing, other communication or payment required or permitted to be given or made to a Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan shall be hand delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail to the Participant or Beneficiary. A notice, filing, communication, or payment mailed to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be to such address as is given in the records of the Company or to such other address as the Participant or Beneficiary may have furnished to the Company in writing in accordance with the Plan. Notices to the Company shall be deemed given as of the date of hand delivery or, if properly mailed, as of the date of actual receipt. Notices to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be deemed given as of the date of hand delivery or, if properly mailed, as of the date shown on the postmark on the receipt for registration or certification, except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon actual receipt.
     7.11. . It is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, so as to prevent the inclusion in gross income of any amounts deferred by the Participants under the Plan in a taxable year that is prior to the taxable year or years in which such amounts would otherwise actually be distributed or made available to Participants or their Beneficiaries. This Plan shall be construed, administered, and governed in a manner that effects such intent, and the Company shall not take any action that would be inconsistent with such intent. Any provisions that would cause any amount deferred or payable under the Plan to be includible in the gross income of any Participant or Beneficiary under Section 409A(a)(1) of the Code shall have no force and effect unless and until amended to cause such amount to not be so includible (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
 
permitted by Section 409A of the Code). Any reference in this Plan to Section 409A of the Code will also include any proposed, temporary or final regulations, or any other guidance, promulgated with respect to such Section by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Alltel Holding Corp. has caused this Plan to be executed this 16th day of July, 2006.

 
Exhibit 10.13
     (this "Agreement") effective as of July 17, 2006, by and between Windstream Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), and the undersigned director or officer of the Corporation (the "Indemnified Party").
THIS AGREEMENT
     Directors and officers of the Corporation are protected in certain respects against liabilities that they may incur in connection with their services on behalf of the Corporation. The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Certificate") eliminates certain liabilities of the directors (but not liabilities of officers who are not directors) for a breach of their duty of care to the Corporation. The Certificate also provides for the indemnification of present and former directors, officers, employees and agents of the Corporation to the fullest extent expressly authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law. In addition, the Corporation maintains a policy of directors' and officers' liability insurance ("D & O insurance") covering certain liabilities that the directors and officers of the Corporation may incur in the performance of their services on behalf of the Corporation.
     The Corporation was formed as a result of the transactions contemplated by that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 8, 2005, as amended, by and among Alltel Corporation ("Alltel"), Alltel Holding Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alltel ("Spinco"), and Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("Valor"), pursuant to which Spinco merged with and into Valor with Valor surviving and subsequently changing its name to Windstream Corporation (the "Merger"). Certain of the directors and officers of the Corporation served as directors and officers of Spinco prior to completion of the Merger.
     The purpose of this Agreement, and counterparts of this Agreement between the Corporation and certain other directors and officers, is to enable these directors and officers to continue to serve the Corporation without undue risk of personal liability by (1) providing for the continuation of the elimination of liability set forth in the Certificate, the indemnification contained in the Certificate, and the D&O insurance or comparable insurance and (2) providing these directors and officers with certain additional protection against liabilities that they may incur in connection with their service to the Corporation or their past service to Spinco.
     In consideration of the Indemnified Party's services to the Corporation after the date of this Agreement and to Spinco prior to the date of this Agreement, as applicable, and of his agreement to cooperate with the Corporation in defending any claim against the Indemnified Party as set forth in Section 4, the Corporation and the Indemnified Party agree as follows:
     1. . Except as specifically required by law, the Corporation shall not approve, or propose that its stockholders approve, an amendment to the Certificate that would delete, supplement or amend Article Eight of the Certificate if the effect of the deletion, supplement or amendment would be to eliminate or diminish the protection against liabilities afforded to the Indemnified Party thereunder. The provisions of Article Eight the Certificate are incorporated in this Agreement by reference and shall be deemed to be a contractual obligation of the Corporation for the benefit of the Indemnified Party, enforceable by the Indemnified Party against the Corporation in accordance with their terms.
Continuation of Limitation of Liability and Indemnification
     2. . The Corporation shall use its best effort to maintain, for as long as the Indemnified Party continues to be a director or officer of the Corporation and thereafter for the period of time specified in Section 7, D&O insurance covering the Indemnified Party the terms of which (including limits of liability, retention amounts, and scope of coverage) are at least as favorable to the Indemnified Party as the D&O insurance maintained by the Corporation at the date of this Agreement. The Corporation will not, however, be required to purchase and maintain such D&O insurance if it is unavailable or if the Board of Directors of the Corporation, in its reasonable business judgment, determines that the amount of the premium is substantially disproportionate to the amount or scope of the coverage provided.
Maintenance of D&O Insurance
     3. .
Additional Indemnification of Indemnified Party
     (a) Subject only to the exclusions set forth in Section 3(b), and without limiting the indemnification provided in Article Eight of the Certificate and Section 1 of this Agreement, the Corporation shall indemnify the Indemnified Party against all expense, liability and loss (including, without
 
limitation, attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement) ("Losses") incurred or suffered by the Indemnified Party in connection with any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, any action by or in the right of the Corporation or Spinco), to which the Indemnified Party is or was a party or is threatened to be made a party by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or Spinco, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or Spinco as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to an employee benefit plan, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director or officer or in any other capacity while serving as a director or officer; provided, however, that, except as provided in Section 5 of this Agreement with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify the Indemnified Party in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by the Indemnified Party only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or Spinco. In addition, the Corporation shall pay the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that, if and to the extent that the Delaware General Corporation Law requires, an advance of expenses incurred by the Indemnified Party in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by the Indemnified Party, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of the Indemnified Party, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal that the Indemnified Party is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this Section 3(a) or otherwise.
     (b) The indemnification provided by Section 3(a) shall not be paid by the Corporation with respect to any claim:
     (i) for which payment is actually made to the Indemnified Party under any D&O insurance purchased and maintained by the Corporation, except to the extent that the aggregate amount of the Losses for which the Indemnified Party is otherwise entitled to indemnification under Section 3(a) exceeds the amount of such payment;
     (ii) based upon or attributable to the Indemnified Party gaining in fact any personal profit or advantage which is finally adjudged to have been illegal; provided that, the mere existence of a conflict of interest arising out of any fiduciary duty of the Indemnified Party, including any fiduciary duty imposed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, will not, by itself, be deemed to be a personal profit or advantage for purposes of this clause (ii);
     (iii) for an accounting of profits made from the purchase or sale by the Indemnified Party of securities of the Corporation within the meaning of Section 16(b) of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or similar provisions of any state statutory law or common law as established by a suit in which final judgment is rendered against the Indemnified Party; or
     (iv) brought about or materially contributed to by acts of active and deliberate dishonesty committed by the Indemnified Party with actual dishonest purpose and intent as established by a suit in which final judgment is rendered against the Indemnified Party.
     4. . The Indemnified Party shall give to the Corporation, as soon as practicable, written notice of any claim made against the Indemnified Party for which indemnification will or could be sought under this Agreement. The failure to give such notice shall not, however, relieve the Corporation of its obligations under this Agreement. In addition, the Indemnified Party and the Corporation shall reasonably cooperate with each other in the defense of any such claim. Notice or written requests to the Corporation under this Agreement shall be directed to the Corporation at 4001 Rodney Parham Road, Little Rock, Arkansas 72212, Attention: Secretary, or to such other address as the Corporation shall designate in writing to the Indemnified Party.
Notification and Defense of Claims
 
     5. . The Corporation shall pay any Losses promptly, and in any event within forty-five days (or, in the case of an advance of expenses, twenty days), upon the written request of the Indemnified Party. If a determination by the Corporation that the Indemnified Party is entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement is required, and the Corporation fails to respond within sixty days to a written request for indemnity, the Corporation shall be deemed to have approved the request. If the Corporation denies a written request for indemnification or advance of expenses, in whole or in part, or if payment in full pursuant to such request is not made within forty-five days (or, in the case of an advance of expenses, twenty days), the right to indemnification or advances as granted by this Agreement shall be enforceable by the Indemnified Party in any court of competent jurisdiction. The Indemnified Party's costs and expenses (including fees and expenses of counsel) incurred in connection with successfully establishing his or her right to indemnification, in whole or in part, in any such action shall also be indemnified by the Corporation. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for the advance of expenses where the undertaking required pursuant to Section 3(a) of this Agreement, if any, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the Indemnified Party has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the Corporation to indemnify the Indemnified Party for the amount claimed, but the burden of such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the Indemnified Party is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) that the Indemnified Party has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Payment of Losses
     6. . In the event of payment, under this Agreement, the Corporation shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of the Indemnified Party, who shall execute all documents and take all actions reasonably requested by the Corporation to implement such right of subrogation.
Subrogation
     7. . All agreements and obligations of the Corporation contained herein shall cover services provided by the Indemnified Party following the date of this Agreement and services provided by the Indemnified Party to Spinco prior to the date of this Agreement and shall continue during the period the Indemnified Party is subject to any liability for Losses by reason of the fact that the Indemnified Party is or was at any time a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or Spinco, or is or was at any time serving at the request of the Corporation or Spinco in the capacities set forth in Section 3(a) of this Agreement.
Continuation of Indemnity
     8. . Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to diminish or otherwise restrict the right of the Indemnified Party to indemnification or recovery under the Certificate, any D&O insurance maintained by the Corporation or otherwise.
Non-Exclusivity
     9. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of the parties hereto; provided, however, that the rights of the Indemnified Party under this Agreement may be assigned only by will or to such person's personal representative or pursuant to the applicable laws of descent and distribution. It is understood between the parties hereto that the term "Indemnified Party" shall include any such successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
     10. . If any provision or provisions of this Agreement are held to be unenforceable, the other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
     11. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with Delaware law.
Governing Law
     12. . This Agreement, as to acts and omissions after the date of this Agreement, supersedes and replaces any prior Indemnity Agreement to which the Indemnified Party and the Corporation may be parties.
Supersedes any Prior Indemnity Agreement
 
     , the parties have executed this Agreement effective as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 10.14
Summary of Restricted Share Grant
     Windstream Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), grants to the Grantee named below, in accordance with the terms of the Windstream Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and this Restricted Shares Agreement (the "Agreement"), the following number of Restricted Shares, on the Date of Grant set forth below:
Terms of Agreement
     1. Grant of Restricted Shares. Subject to and upon the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and in the Plan, the Company hereby grants to the Grantee as of the Date of Grant, the total number of Restricted Shares (the "Restricted Shares") set forth above. The Restricted Shares shall be fully paid and nonassessable.
     2. Vesting of Restricted Shares.
          [  (a) The Restricted Shares shall vest and become nonforfeitable if the Grantee shall have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or a Subsidiary through the vesting dates set forth below with respect to the percentage of Restricted Shares set forth next to such date:
Either
           (a) The Restricted Shares shall vest and become nonforfeitable if the Grantee shall have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or a Subsidiary for the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending on August 1, 2009.]
OR
          (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2(a), all of the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement shall immediately become vested and nonforfeitable if, during the vesting period, the Grantee (i) dies or becomes permanently disabled (as determined by the Committee) while in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary, or (ii) the Grantee's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries is terminated without Cause (as defined in Section 19), or the Grantee terminates his employment with the Company or a Subsidiary for Good Reason (as defined in Section 19), in each case within the two year period immediately following a Change in Control.
 
 
          (c) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, accelerate the time at which the Restricted Shares become vested and nonforfeitable on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate.
     3. Forfeiture of Shares. The Restricted Shares that have not yet vested pursuant to Section 2 (including without limitation any cash dividends and non-cash proceeds related to the Restricted Shares for which the record date occurs on or after the date of forfeiture) shall be forfeited automatically without further action or notice if the Grantee ceases to be employed by the Company or a Subsidiary other than as provided in Section 2(b). In the event of a forfeiture of the Restricted Shares, the stock book entry account representing the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement shall be cancelled and all Restricted Shares shall be returned to the Company.
     4. Transferability. The Restricted Shares may not be sold, exchanged, assigned, transferred, pledged, encumbered or otherwise disposed of by the Grantee, except to the Company, until the Restricted Shares have become nonforfeitable as provided in Section 2. Any purported transfer or encumbrance in violation of the provisions of this Section 4 shall be void, and the other party to any such purported transaction shall not obtain any rights to or interest in such Restricted Shares. The Committee, in its sole discretion, when and as is permitted by the Plan, may waive the restrictions on transferability with respect to all or a portion of the Restricted Shares, provided that any permitted transferee (other than the Company) shall remain subject to all the terms and conditions applicable to the Restricted Shares prior to such transfer.
     5. Dividend, Voting and Other Rights. Except as otherwise provided herein, from and after the Date of Grant, the Grantee shall have all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Restricted Shares, including the right to vote the Restricted Shares and receive any cash dividends that may be paid thereon (which such dividends shall be paid no later than the end of the calendar year in which the dividends are paid to the holders of the Common Shares or, if later, the 15th day of the third month following the date the dividends are paid to the holders of the Common Shares); , , that any additional Common Shares or other securities that the Grantee may become entitled to receive pursuant to a stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, separation or reorganization or any other change in the capital structure of the Company shall be considered Restricted Shares and shall be subject to the same restrictions as the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement. Any cash dividends paid with respect to the Restricted Shares shall be reported on the Grantee's annual wage and tax statement (Form W-2) as compensation and shall be subject to all applicable tax withholdings as provided in Section 10.
provided
however
     6. Custody of Restricted Shares; Stock Power. Until the Restricted Shares have become vested and nonforfeitable as provided in Section 2, the Restricted Shares shall be issued in book-entry only form and shall not be represented by a certificate. The restrictions set forth in this Agreement shall be reflected on the stock transfer records maintained by or on behalf of the Company. By execution of this Agreement and effective until the Restricted Shares have become vested and nonforfeitable as provided in Section 2, the Grantee hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint Jeffery R. Gardner, Brent Whittington, or John P. Fletcher, or any of them, attorneys-in-fact to transfer the Restricted Shares on the stock transfer records of the Company with full power of substitution. The Grantee agrees to take any and all other actions (including without limitation executing, delivering, performing and filing such other agreements, instruments and documents) as the Company may deem necessary or appropriate to carry out and give effect to the provisions of this Agreement.
     7. Continuous Employment. For purposes of this Agreement, the continuous employment of the Grantee with the Company and its Subsidiaries shall not be deemed to have been interrupted, and the Grantee shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an employee of the Company and its Subsidiaries, by reason of the transfer of his employment among the Company and its Subsidiaries or a leave of absence approved by the Committee.
     8. No Employment Contract. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall confer upon the Grantee any right with respect to continuance of employment by the Company and its Subsidiaries, nor limit or affect in any manner the right of the Company and its Subsidiaries to terminate the employment or adjust the compensation of the Grantee.
     9. Relation to Other Benefits. Any economic or other benefit to the Grantee under this Agreement or the Plan shall not be taken into account in determining any benefits to which the Grantee may be entitled under any
 
profit-sharing, retirement or other benefit or compensation plan maintained by the Company or a Subsidiary and shall not affect the amount of any life insurance coverage available to any beneficiary under any life insurance plan covering employees of the Company or a Subsidiary.
     10. Taxes and Withholding. The Grantee is responsible for any federal, state, local or other taxes with respect to the Restricted Shares (including the grant, the vesting, the receipt of Common Shares, the sale of Common Shares and the receipt of dividends, if any). The Company does not guarantee any particular tax treatment or results in connection with the grant or vesting of the Restricted Shares or the payment of dividends. If the Company or any Subsidiary is required to withhold any federal, state, local or other taxes in connection with the delivery or vesting of the Restricted Shares, the Grantee shall pay the tax or make provisions that are satisfactory to the Company or such Subsidiary for the payment thereof. The Grantee may elect to satisfy all or any portion of any such withholding obligation by surrendering to the Company or such Subsidiary a portion of the Common Shares that become vested and nonforfeitable hereunder, and the Common Shares so surrendered by the Grantee shall be credited against any such withholding obligation at the Market Value per Share of such Common Shares on the date of such surrender.
     11. Section 83(b) Election Prohibited. As a condition to receiving this award, the Grantee acknowledges and agrees that he or she shall not file an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with respect to all or any portion of the Restricted Shares.
     12. Compliance with Law. The Company shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws and listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or any national securities exchange with respect to the Restricted Shares; , , notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Restricted Shares shall not be delivered or become vested if the delivery or vesting thereof would result in a violation of any such law or listing requirement.
provided
however
     13. Amendments. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee may modify this Agreement upon written notice to the Grantee. Any amendment to the Plan shall be deemed to be an amendment to this Agreement to the extent that the amendment is applicable hereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment of the Plan or this Agreement shall adversely affect the rights of the Grantee under this Agreement without the Grantee's consent.
     14. Severability. In the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be invalidated for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, any provision so invalidated shall be deemed to be separable from the other provisions hereof, and the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be valid and fully enforceable.
     15. Relation to Plan. This Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. This Agreement and the Plan contain the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter contained in this Agreement, and supersede all prior written or oral communications, representations and negotiations in respect thereto. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, the Plan shall govern. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan. The Compensation Committee of the Board acting pursuant to the Plan, as constituted from time to time, shall, except as expressly provided otherwise herein, have the right to determine any questions which arise in connection with the grant of the Restricted Shares.
     16. Successors and Assigns. Without limiting Section 4, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the successors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives and assigns of the Grantee, and the successors and assigns of the Company.
     17. Governing Law. The interpretation, performance, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws thereof.
     18. Electronic Delivery. The Grantee hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any documents that the Company may elect to deliver (including, but not limited to, prospectuses, prospectus supplements, grant or award notifications and agreements, account statements, annual and quarterly reports, and all other forms of communications) in connection with this and any other award made or offered under the Plan. The Grantee understands that, unless earlier revoked by the Grantee by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company, this consent shall be effective for the duration of the Agreement. The Grantee also understands that he or
 
she shall have the right at any time to request that the Company deliver written copies of any and all materials referred to above at no charge. The Grantee hereby consents to any and all procedures the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of any such documents that the Company may elect to deliver, and agrees that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and shall have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. The Grantee consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be effected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan.
     19. Definitions. Where used herein, the terms "Cause" and "Good Reason" shall have the meanings given to such terms in the employment agreement or change in control agreement in effect for the Grantee immediately prior to his termination of employment, or if none is in effect at that time, such terms shall be defined as follows:
          (a) "Cause" shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following: (i) the willful failure by the Grantee substantially to perform the Grantee's duties with the Company or a Subsidiary, other than any failure resulting from the Grantee's incapacity due to physical or mental illness, that continues for at least 30 days after the Board delivers to the Grantee a written demand for performance that identifies specifically and in detail the manner in which the Board believes that the Grantee willfully has failed substantially to perform the Grantee's duties or (ii) the willful engaging by the Grantee in misconduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company or any Subsidiary, monetarily or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, no act, or failure to act, on the Grantee's part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Grantee not in good faith and without reasonable belief that the Grantee's act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
          (b) "Good Reason" shall mean the occurrence, without the Grantee's express written consent, of any one of the following: (i) the assignment to the Grantee of any duties inconsistent with the Grantee's status as an executive officer of the Company or of a Subsidiary or a substantial adverse alteration in the nature or status of the Grantee's responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; (ii) a reduction by the Company in the Grantee's annual base salary to any amount less than the Grantee's annual base salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; (iii) the relocation of the principal executive offices of the Company or of a Subsidiary, as the case may be, to a location more than 35 miles from the location of such offices immediately prior to the Change in Control or the Company's requiring the Grantee to be based anywhere other than the principal executive offices of the Company or of a Subsidiary as the case may be, except for required business travel to an extent substantially consistent with the Grantee's business travel obligations immediately prior to the Change in Control; (iv) the failure by the Company to pay to the Grantee any portion of the Grantee's current compensation, or to pay to the Grantee any deferred compensation under any deferred compensation program of the Company, within five days after the date the compensation is due or to pay or reimburse the Grantee for any expenses incurred by him for required business travel; (v) the failure by the Company to continue in effect any compensation plan in which the Grantee participates immediately prior to the Change in Control that is material to the Grantee's total compensation, including but not limited to, stock option, restricted stock, stock appreciation right, incentive compensation, bonus, and other plans, unless an equitable alternative arrangement embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan has been made, or the failure by the Company to continue the Grantee's participation therein (or in a substitute or alternative plan) on a basis not materially less favorable, both in terms of the amount of compensation provided and the level of the Grantee's participation relative to other participants, than existed immediately prior to the Change in Control; or (vi) the failure by the Company to continue to provide the Grantee with benefits substantially similar to those enjoyed by the Grantee under any of the Company's pension, profit-sharing, life insurance, medical, health and accident, disability, or other employee benefit plans in which the Grantee was participating immediately prior to the Change in Control; the failure by the Company to continue to provide the Grantee any material fringe benefit or perquisite enjoyed by the Grantee immediately prior to the Change in Control; or the failure by the Company to provide the Grantee with the number of paid vacation days to which the Grantee is entitled in accordance with the Company's normal vacation policy in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by its duly authorized officer and the Grantee has also executed this Agreement, as of the Date of Grant.
     The undersigned hereby acknowledges that a copy of the Plan, Plan Summary and Prospectus, and the Company's most recent Annual Report and Proxy Statement (the "Prospectus Information") are available for viewing on the Company's intranet site at . The Grantee hereby consents to receiving this Prospectus Information electronically, or, in the alternative, agrees to contact at to request a paper copy of the Prospectus Information at no charge. The Grantee represents that he or she is familiar with the terms and provisions of the Prospectus Information and hereby accepts the award of Restricted Shares on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.
                    
                    
                    

 
Exhibit 10.15
Summary of Restricted Share Grant
     Windstream Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), grants to the Grantee named below, in accordance with the terms of the Windstream Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and this Restricted Shares Agreement (the "Agreement"), the following number of Restricted Shares, on the Date of Grant set forth below:
Terms of Agreement
     1. Grant of Restricted Shares. Subject to and upon the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and in the Plan, the Company hereby grants to the Grantee as of the Date of Grant, the total number of Restricted Shares (the "Restricted Shares") set forth above. The Restricted Shares shall be fully paid and nonassessable.
     2. Vesting of Restricted Shares.
          (a) The Restricted Shares shall vest and become nonforfeitable if the Grantee shall have continued to serve on the Board for the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending on the first anniversary of the Date of Grant.
2
          (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2(a), all of the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement shall immediately become vested and nonforfeitable if, during the vesting period, (i) the Grantee dies or becomes permanently disabled (as determined by the Committee) while serving on the Board or (ii) a Change of Control occurs.
          (c) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, accelerate the time at which the Restricted Shares become vested and nonforfeitable on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate.
     3. Forfeiture of Shares. The Restricted Shares that have not yet vested pursuant to Section 2 (including without limitation any cash dividends and non-cash proceeds related to the Restricted Shares for which the record date occurs on or after the date of forfeiture) shall be forfeited automatically without further action or notice if the Grantee ceases to be a Director other than as provided in Section 2(b). In the event of a forfeiture of the Restricted Shares, the stock book entry account representing the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement shall be cancelled and all Restricted Shares shall be returned to the Company.
 
 
     4. Transferability. The Restricted Shares may not be sold, exchanged, assigned, transferred, pledged, encumbered or otherwise disposed of by the Grantee, except to the Company, until the Restricted Shares have become nonforfeitable as provided in Section 2. Any purported transfer or encumbrance in violation of the provisions of this Section 4 shall be void, and the other party to any such purported transaction shall not obtain any rights to or interest in such Restricted Shares. The Committee, in its sole discretion, when and as is permitted by the Plan, may waive the restrictions on transferability with respect to all or a portion of the Restricted Shares, provided that any permitted transferee (other than the Company) shall remain subject to all the terms and conditions applicable to the Restricted Shares prior to such transfer.
     5. Dividend, Voting and Other Rights. Except as otherwise provided herein, from and after the Date of Grant, the Grantee shall have all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Restricted Shares, including the right to vote the Restricted Shares and receive any cash dividends that may be paid thereon (which such dividends shall be paid no later than the end of the calendar year in which the dividends are paid to the holders of the Common Shares or, if later, the 15th day of the third month following the date the dividends are paid to the holders of the Common Shares); , , that any additional Common Shares or other securities that the Grantee may become entitled to receive pursuant to a stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, separation or reorganization or any other change in the capital structure of the Company shall be considered Restricted Shares and shall be subject to the same restrictions as the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement. Any cash dividends paid with respect to the Restricted Shares shall be reported on the Grantee's Form 1099 as compensation.
provided
however
     6. Custody of Restricted Shares; Stock Power. Until the Restricted Shares have become vested and nonforfeitable as provided in Section 2, the Restricted Shares shall be issued in book-entry only form and shall not be represented by a certificate. The restrictions set forth in this Agreement shall be reflected on the stock transfer records maintained by or on behalf of the Company. By execution of this Agreement and effective until the Restricted Shares have become vested and nonforfeitable as provided in Section 2, the Grantee hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint Jeffery R. Gardner, Brent Whittington, or John P. Fletcher, or any of them, attorneys-in-fact to transfer the Restricted Shares on the stock transfer records of the Company with full power of substitution. The Grantee agrees to take any and all other actions (including without limitation executing, delivering, performing and filing such other agreements, instruments and documents) as the Company may deem necessary or appropriate to carry out and give effect to the provisions of this Agreement.
     7. No Right to Reelection. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall confer upon the Grantee any right to be nominated for reelection by the Company's stockholders, or any right to remain a member of the Board for any period of time, or at any particular rate of compensation.
     8. Taxes and Withholding. The Grantee is responsible for any federal, state, local or other taxes with respect to the Restricted Shares (including the grant, the vesting, the receipt of Common Shares, the sale of Common Shares and the receipt of dividends, if any). The Company does not guarantee any particular tax treatment or results in connection with the grant or vesting of the Restricted Shares or the payment of dividends. If the Company or any Subsidiary is required to withhold any federal, state, local or other taxes in connection with the delivery or vesting of the Restricted Shares, the Grantee shall pay the tax or make provisions that are satisfactory to the Company or such Subsidiary for the payment thereof. The Grantee may elect to satisfy all or any portion of any such withholding obligation by surrendering to the Company or such Subsidiary a portion of the Common Shares that become vested and nonforfeitable hereunder, and the Common Shares so surrendered by the Grantee shall be credited against any such withholding obligation at the Market Value per Share of such Common Shares on the date of such surrender.
     9. Section 83(b) Election Prohibited. As a condition to receiving this award, the Grantee acknowledges and agrees that he or she shall not file an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with respect to all or any portion of the Restricted Shares.
 
     10. Compliance with Law. The Company shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws and listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or any national securities exchange with respect to the Restricted Shares; , , notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Restricted Shares shall not be delivered or become vested if the delivery or vesting thereof would result in a violation of any such law or listing requirement.
provided
however
     11. Amendments. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee may modify this Agreement upon written notice to the Grantee. Any amendment to the Plan shall be deemed to be an amendment to this Agreement to the extent that the amendment is applicable hereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment of the Plan or this Agreement shall adversely affect the rights of the Grantee under this Agreement without the Grantee's consent.
     12. Severability. In the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be invalidated for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, any provision so invalidated shall be deemed to be separable from the other provisions hereof, and the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be valid and fully enforceable.
     13. Relation to Plan. This Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. This Agreement and the Plan contain the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter contained in this Agreement, and supersede all prior written or oral communications, representations and negotiations in respect thereto. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, the Plan shall govern. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan. The Compensation Committee of the Board acting pursuant to the Plan, as constituted from time to time, shall, except as expressly provided otherwise herein, have the right to determine any questions which arise in connection with the grant of the Restricted Shares.
     14. Successors and Assigns. Without limiting Section 4, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the successors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives and assigns of the Grantee, and the successors and assigns of the Company.
     15. Governing Law. The interpretation, performance, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws thereof.
     16. Electronic Delivery. The Grantee hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any documents that the Company may elect to deliver (including, but not limited to, prospectuses, prospectus supplements, grant or award notifications and agreements, account statements, annual and quarterly reports, and all other forms of communications) in connection with this and any other award made or offered under the Plan. The Grantee understands that, unless earlier revoked by the Grantee by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company, this consent shall be effective for the duration of the Agreement. The Grantee also understands that he or she shall have the right at any time to request that the Company deliver written copies of any and all materials referred to above at no charge. The Grantee hereby consents to any and all procedures the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of any such documents that the Company may elect to deliver, and agrees that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and shall have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. The Grantee consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be effected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by its duly authorized officer and the Grantee has also executed this Agreement, as of the Date of Grant.
 
     The undersigned hereby acknowledges that a copy of the Plan, Plan Summary and Prospectus, and the Company's most recent Annual Report and Proxy Statement (the "Prospectus Information") are available for viewing on the Company's intranet site at . The Grantee hereby consents to receiving this Prospectus Information electronically, or, in the alternative, agrees to contact at to request a paper copy of the Prospectus Information at no charge. The Grantee represents that he or she is familiar with the terms and provisions of the Prospectus Information and hereby accepts the award of Restricted Shares on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.
                    
                    
                    

 
Exhibit 10.16
     Compensation for directors who are not officers of the Corporation will consist of the following components:
     Members will receive a prorated amount of the Annual Retainer, Committee Chair Fees and Restricted Stock Grant for the portion of 2006 for which they serve as a Board member or Committee Chair. The Corporation will pay the prorated amount of the Annual Retainer and Committee Chair Fees for 2006 and the Meeting Fees for the June 2006 meeting of Board of Directors within 10 days after approval of this Director Compensation Program at the June 2006 meeting. The Board will grant the prorated amount of Restrict Stock for 2006 at the August 2006 Board meeting. For future years, directors will receive the Annual Retainer, Committee Chair Fees and Restricted Stock grants at the first regularly scheduled board meeting of the year.

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
1. INTRODUCTION
Windstream is committed to conducting business in a manner that is ethical and promotes the best interests of its stockholders, employees, and customers. Windstream expects every employee and member of the board of directors to be ethical and honest, comply with the law, and avoid any appearance of impropriety or conflict of interest. You should treat everyone you meet in the course of doing business with fairness and respect.
This brochure provides basic guidelines to assist you in identifying activities and behaviors that are appropriate in important areas of business conduct. Windstream expects you to comply with these guidelines and use good judgment in applying them to your conduct. Ethical decision making is not always easy, and these guidelines do not explain the appropriate ethical behavior for every situation. As a guide to aid you in ethical decision-making, ask yourself these questions:
Working with integrity
Working with
Integrity
Who Must Follow These Guidelines
These guidelines apply to all Windstream employees and members of the board of directors. In addition, Windstream employees are encouraged to share these guidelines with third parties with whom Windstream is doing business. Windstream employees and board members are never authorized to commit, or direct others to commit, any illegal or unethical act. Employees and board members must not engage in conduct or activity that may raise questions as to Windstream's honesty, impartiality, or reputation, or otherwise cause embarrassment to the company.
Employee Responsibilities
You have an obligation to uphold and carry out Windstream's commitment to lawful and ethical business conduct. This obligation requires you to:
1
 
Leadership Responsibilities
Windstream's leaders, at every level, should serve their employees by internalizing the following values:
In dealing with ethical issues, Windstream management will:
Penalties for Violating the Working with Integrity Guidelines
Compliance with applicable laws and these guidelines will be strictly enforced. If you fail to comply with them, you will be subject to corrective action, up to and including termination of employment. Following are examples of conduct that violate these guidelines and may result in discipline:
2
 
2. HOW TO RAISE AN INTEGRITY CONCERN OR POSSIBLE ETHICS VIOLATION
One of the most important responsibilities you have as a Windstream employee is the obligation to report possible workplace violations of law or these guidelines. Windstream encourages you to fulfill this responsibility and to seek advice when in doubt about the best course of action in a particular situation.
Working with
Integrity
Windstream offers you several alternatives for obtaining compliance advice and reporting possible violations of applicable law or these guidelines. You may contact your:
You may raise a concern either orally or in writing. To contact a member of the compliance committee, use the communication form located on the Intranet at http://internal.windstream. com/hr/will/ethics/.
Working with
Integrity
If you are not comfortable discussing your inquiry with any of the foregoing individuals or are not satisfied with a response to your inquiry, you may contact:
The helpline and website have been established to provide you channels to report possible violations confidentially and anonymously. Both the helpline and website are staffed by The Network, Inc., an independent third party. When contacting the helpline or website, you may provide your name if you wish, but you are not required to do so. Trained operators, who are not employed by Windstream, staff the Windstream helpline twenty-four hours per day, seven days a week. Information provided to The Network, Inc. is promptly transmitted to the appropriate Windstream department for investigation. When you contact the helpline or website, your report will be assigned a tracking number that will enable you to receive an update on the reported matter or provide additional information.
Working with
Integrity
What Happens when an Integrity Concern or Ethics Violation is Reported
The program is overseen by Windstream's compliance committee, which is comprised of Windstream's chief legal officer, chief financial officer, and chief human resources officer. The compliance committee is responsible for ensuring that appropriate policies and procedures exist to help you comply with Windstream's expectations of ethical conduct.
Working with
Integrity
3
 
The Internal Audit Department reviews each report of a possible violation of law or these guidelines on behalf of the compliance committee and refers the report to the appropriate department for investigation. The Internal Audit Department reports all complaints and concerns to the compliance committee. Complaints and concerns relating to Windstream's accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters are investigated by members of the Internal Audit Department and reported to the audit committee of Windstream's board of directors.
Windstream prohibits any employee from taking retaliatory action against anyone for making a good faith report of a possible violation or assisting in an investigation of a possible violation. If you suspect that you have been retaliated against for reporting a possible violation or assisting in an investigation, you should contact your supervisor, your human resources department, or a member of the compliance committee immediately.
Questions and Answers
4
 
3. INTEGRITY OF COMPANY BOOKS AND RECORDS
Most Windstream employees are involved with company records of some kind, such as preparing time sheets or expense reports, approving invoices, signing for receipt of purchased materials, or preparing performance or production reports. Maintaining the integrity of all business records is essential to meeting Windstream's financial, legal, regulatory, and operational objectives and requirements.
Financial and Public Reporting
As a public company, Windstream is required to follow prescribed accounting principles and disclosure standards to report financial and other information accurately and completely. Windstream also is required to have appropriate internal controls and processes in place to ensure that financial and other disclosures comply with the law and Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. If you have responsibility for or any involvement in these areas, you must understand and adhere to these principles and standards.
All employees with any responsibility for the preparation of Windstream's public reports, including all employees involved in drafting, reviewing, and signing or certifying the information contained in those reports, have an obligation to ensure that Windstream's financial statements, filings and submissions with the Securities Exchange Commission, and other public statements and disclosures are complete, fair, accurate, timely, and understandable.
All financial books, records and accounts must follow Windstream's system of internal controls, as well as all generally accepted accounting principles, laws and regulations for accounting and public reporting. You must accurately and completely record and report all information, and you must not assist anyone with recording or reporting any information in an inaccurate or misleading way.
Violations of laws associated with financial and public reporting can result in fines, penalties, and imprisonment and they can lead to a loss of public faith in the company. Windstream relies on you to come forward if you become aware of any action related to financial or public reporting that you believe may be improper. You should immediately report it in accordance with these guidelines. If you wish to report your concerns anonymously, you can use the helpline or website.
Working with
Integrity
Questions and Answers
Falsification or Alteration of Records
You may not, under any circumstances, falsify or alter records or reports, prepare records or reports that do not accurately or adequately reflect the underlying transactions or activities, or knowingly approve such conduct. Such behavior will result in corrective action.
5
 
Examples of prohibited practices include:
Questions and Answers
Authorization
Windstream has adopted a Schedule of Authorization that specifies which Windstream employees are empowered to enter into different types of commitments on behalf of the company. You are responsible for reviewing the Schedule of Authorization before signing any document on behalf of Windstream (see http:// internal.windstream.com/on_job/soa). Our suppliers and customers are not required to know if you have authorization to sign a given document.
Internal Controls
Internal controls are systems and processes that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that Windstream is properly managed and achieving its objectives. Windstream has internal controls in place to promote the efficiency and effectiveness of business operations, reduce the risk of asset loss, and help ensure the reliability of financial statements and compliance with laws and regulations. Examples of internal controls are authorization of expenditures, monitoring workgroup activities, and use of passwords for systems access.
Windstream's management is responsible for creating strong and effective internal control systems. You must comply with the internal controls applicable to your job.
6
 
Relationship with Auditors
You must cooperate with and not attempt to improperly influence any external or internal auditor during his or her review of any financial statements or operations of the company. Examples of improper influence include purposefully providing misleading information to an auditor or arranging with another person to provide misleading information to an auditor, offering incentives implicitly or explicitly linked to the outcome of the audit or purposefully providing an auditor with an inaccurate legal analysis or business rationale.
Expense Reporting
When incurring expenses in the course of your duties as a Windstream employee, you are expected to act responsibly and in the best interests of Windstream. You must use your own good judgment to ensure that Windstream receives good value for every expenditure. You must comply at all times with the provisions of Windstream's expense reporting policy, which is located on the Intranet at http://internal. windstream.com on_job/extensity/.
Expense reports must never seek reimbursement of expenses that are not incurred in, and related to, the course of your duties as a Windstream employee. This means that an expense report must never seek reimbursement for personal spending. Expense reports must be completed accurately and in a timely manner, showing the true purpose and correct amount of each expense item and, if applicable, the persons in attendance.
Each supervisor is responsible for reviewing all expense reports submitted by a subordinate, and verifying that such reports and the required receipts comply with these guidelines. No expense report should be approved with the understanding that the funds will be, or have been, used for a purpose other than what is described in the report. No supervisor should engage in practices intended to circumvent Windstream's management authorization process, such as requesting a subordinate to incur and submit expenses for the supervisor so that the supervisor can approve the report.
Questions and Answers
7
 
Retention of Records
Windstream records include internal and external documents prepared in the course of business. Windstream has a record retention policy for the systematic retention and destruction of these records. Each employee who maintains any Windstream records is responsible for reviewing and complying with Windstream's document retention policy, which is located on the Intranet at http://internal.windstream.com/on_job/ recordsmanagement.
Destroying, shredding, or otherwise altering documents or records in order to impede a governmental investigation, lawsuit, audit, or examination is prohibited and may lead to criminal liability. If you are not sure that a document can be shredded or destroyed, consult your supervisor before doing so.
Questions and Answers
4. FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
Windstream hires, evaluates, and promotes employees based on their talents, skills and performance. Windstream will not tolerate discrimination in employment on the basis of race, color, age, sex, sexual orientation, religion, disability, national origin, veteran status or any status protected by applicable law.
Windstream unequivocally prohibits all forms of harassment in the workplace. This prohibition applies to all employees, as well as to employees and representatives of Windstream's customers and vendors. Harassment includes behavior  whether in person or by other means, such as e-mail  that is offensive and interferes with an employee's work performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment. Harassment may take many forms, including unwanted physical contact, sexual advances, threatening behavior, and demeaning comments, jokes or gestures.
If you believe that you have been discriminated against or harassed, you should report that discrimination or harassment to your supervisor, his or her supervisor, your human resources department representative, the Director of Employee Relations, or the helpline.
Working with Integrity
Windstream is committed to maintaining a workplace environment in which everyone is treated with fairness and respect. Windstream values diversity as a societal and organizational advantage and proactively seeks to achieve diversity in its workforce. See Human Resources Policies at http://internal.windstream.com/hr/policies.
Questions and Answers
8
 
5. APPEARANCE OF IMPROPRIETY/CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
You should not engage in any conduct that creates either the appearance of impropriety or a conflict of interest with your Windstream employment.
Your conduct creates the appearance of impropriety whenever it would lead a reasonable observer objectively to conclude that you are acting in a manner that is dishonest, unethical, illegal, or otherwise in violation of these guidelines.
A conflict of interest is any interest or activity that is incompatible in any significant respect with your responsibilities as a Windstream employee. Conflicts of interest include relationships with suppliers, contractors, customers, competitors or regulators that may compete for your loyalty to Windstream or that affect your independent judgment on behalf of Windstream. You should perform your job duties based primarily upon what is in the best interest of Windstream and in compliance with any applicable law rather than upon personal considerations or relationships.
It is not possible to identify every instance that results in the appearance of impropriety or a conflict of interest. However, the following guidelines are designed to prevent the most common instances in which they occur.
Business Opportunities
On occasion, you may become aware of possible business opportunities for Windstream, including business with vendors or new customers. You should consider such opportunities strictly for Windstream's benefit. You must not exploit such opportunities for your personal benefit or become involved in a manner that would divide your loyalty between Windstream and a person or company that may do business with Windstream.
9
 
Gifts and Entertainment
For purposes of these guidelines relating to gifts and entertainment, "you" includes your family, and any other person or company with whom or which you have a relationship that involves significant influence or control or in which you or your family have a financial interest.
Gift Giving
You should never give any gift, entertainment, benefit or privilege to a competitor, customer, or anyone who conducts or seeks to conduct business with Windstream when the value is not reasonable in its business context or places the recipient under a real or perceived obligation to you or Windstream.
Gifts of cash, vouchers, gift certificates, loans or securities (including stock), regardless of the amount or value involved, should never, under any circumstances, be given to a competitor, customer, or anyone who conducts or seeks to conduct business with Windstream. Likewise, gifts that are intended to or would result in favorable treatment or influence a business decision, regardless of the amount or value involved, should never, under any circumstances, be given.
For additional guidance, see the Bribes, Kickbacks and Other Improper Payment section below.
Gift Receiving
You should never solicit any gift, entertainment, benefit, or privilege from a competitor, customer, or anyone who conducts or seeks to conduct business with Windstream. You should not accept, and you must notify your supervisor if you are offered, any gifts, entertainment or anything else of value from a competitor, customer, or anyone who conducts or seeks to conduct business with Windstream, other than (1) Nominal Gifts or (2) Ordinary Business Entertainment (as these terms are defined below).
Nominal Gifts are gifts of token to modest value that will not place you under any real or perceived obligation to the donor or gifts used for advertising or promotion as long as they are customarily given in the regular course of business.
Ordinary Business Entertainment generally means entertainment that offers opportunity for benefit to the company and is reasonable in its business context.
Gifts of cash, vouchers, gift certificates, loans or securities (including stock), are not Nominal Gifts or Ordinary Business Entertainment, , and should never, under any circumstances, be accepted from a competitor, customer, or anyone who conducts or seeks to conduct business with Windstream. Likewise, gifts that are intended to or would result in favorable treatment or influence a business decision, , are not Nominal Gifts or Ordinary Business entertainment and should never, under any circumstances, be accepted. For additional guidance, see Bribes, Kickbacks and Other Improper Payment.
regardless of the amount or value involved
regardless of the amount or value involved
10
 
Questions and Answers
If the answer to either of the above questions is yes, you may not accept the gift or privilege, regardless of its amount or nature.
If the answer to both questions is no, you must then determine if the gift or entertainment privilege meets the definitions of "Nominal Gift" or "Ordinary Business Entertainment." If the gift or privilege meets the definition of "Nominal Gift" or "Ordinary Business Entertainment," you may accept it; if it does not meet either definition, you may not accept it.
Following are a few examples of gifts and business entertainment that meet and do not meet the Nominal Gift or Ordinary Business Entertainment criteria. Remember, if you answered yes to either of the above questions regarding cash/monetary equivalents and favorable treatment or influence, you may not accept the gift even if it otherwise meets the definition of a Nominal Gift or Ordinary Business Entertainment.
If you have any questions regarding the guidelines for gifts and entertainment, please contact the helpline or one of the other channels Windstream makes available to you.
Working with Integrity
11
 
Discounts
You should not accept discounts on personal purchases of a vendor's or customer's products or services, unless they are generally offered to all Windstream employees, or others having a similar business relationship with the supplier or customer.
Outside Activities
Any outside business interest, including other employment, is not permitted if it:
Volunteer Activities
Windstream encourages you to be involved in volunteer activities that improve or help communities where Windstream operates. If you wish to use Windstream resources or spend work time on these activities, you should obtain the approval of your supervisor prior to beginning the activity. Your supervisor will determine if you are required to take vacation time in connection with your volunteer activities.
Board Memberships
You are encouraged to serve on boards of community or not-for-profit organizations as long as those activities do not create the appearance of impropriety or a conflict of interest with your Windstream employment. When serving on such boards, you should excuse yourself from any discussion or vote on any matter that involves Windstream.
You should not serve as a member of the board of directors of any company that is a competitor of Windstream or has a significant commercial relationship with Windstream without the prior approval of the compliance committee.
Direct Investments and Other Financial Opportunities
For purposes of these guidelines relating to direct investments and other financial opportunities, "you" includes your family and any other person or entity with whom or which you have a relationship that involves significant influence or control.
Investments
You may not have any direct investment or other financial interest in a supplier, contractor, or competitor of Windstream (ownership of less than 1% of the stock of a publicly traded company that competes or does business with Windstream is permissible). You may not accept any loan or guarantee of an obligation from a supplier, contractor or competitor of Windstream. You should notify your supervisor if you acquire a profit or investment opportunity as a result of representing Windstream in the course of your employment.
12
 
Financial Opportunities
It may be a conflict of interest if you acquire an interest in an asset, such as real estate, stock or some other type of property, when Windstream has acquired or has publicly disclosed that it will, or you are aware that it will, acquire an interest in that same asset. You must notify the compliance committee if this situation occurs.
Employment of Family Members
Employment by Windstream
Other than in exceptional circumstances where particular arrangements may be authorized by Human Resources, you should never be in a position to influence the employment conditions (e.g., work assignment, compensation, etc.) or performance assessment of a family member who is a Windstream employee, contractor or agent.
Questions and Answers
Employment by a Windstream Supplier or Competitor
In some instances, it may also be a conflict of interest if a member of your immediate family is employed by a supplier, contractor or competitor of Windstream. You must contact your human resources representative or one of the other channels Windstream makes available to you if this occurs.
Questions and Answers
Bribes, Kickbacks and Other Improper Payments
Bribes, kickbacks, payoffs and similar payments are unethical and illegal. You are not permitted to make or authorize any offer, payment, promise, or gift that is intended or appears to influence any person or entity to award business opportunities to Windstream or to make a business decision in Windstream's favor. You are not permitted to accept any offer, payment, promise, or gift from a third party that is intended or appears to influence Windstream to award business opportunities to that third party or to make business decisions in that party's favor. For additional guidance, see Gifts and Entertainment and International Business.
13
 
6. SAFETY, HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Windstream is committed to providing a safe, healthy and alcohol and drug free work place for its employees and for visitors to Windstream's facilities. The Windstream Pocket Safety Guide, which is available on the Intranet (see http://internal.windstream.com/on_job/safety), provides an easy-to-read, ready reference on Windstream's basic safety requirements.
Windstream is committed to complying with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.
You are expected to follow all applicable safety, health, and environmental laws, as well as any related Windstream policies. You should report immediately to your supervisor any suspected unsafe or unhealthy conditions in the work place and any concerns regarding the improper handling or disposal of hazardous material or waste.
7. USE AND PROTECTION OF COMPANY ASSETS
Windstream has a large variety of assets including physical assets and intangible assets such as intellectual property. Many are of great value to Windstream's competitiveness and success as a business. As such, we all have an obligation to protect Windstream's assets and ensure their proper use. Improper use occurs when you use Windstream property or information for personal gain or advantage, for the advantage of others outside Windstream, such as friends or family members, or to the detriment of a customer or fellow employee.
Windstream assets are maintained and provided for Windstream business use. As a Windstream employee, you are allowed limited personal use of telephones and computers. Excessive personal use of Windstream assets is not allowed. In addition, you must use company assets in accordance with any guidelines, policies, or procedures implemented by Windstream regarding their use. These guidelines, policies, and procedures are posted on the Intranet at http://internal.windstream.com/on_job/infosecurity/.
Physical Assets
Windstream's physical assets include but are not limited to cash, buildings, equipment, corporate credit cards, and office supplies. Theft, carelessness, and waste have a direct impact on Windstream's profitability.
14
 
Questions and Answers
Information and Communication Systems
Windstream assets also include information and communication systems made available to help you perform your job, such as telephone and facsimile service, Intranet and Internet access, and e-mail.
Questions and Answers
15
 
Intellectual Property and Proprietary Information
Some of Windstream's most valuable assets are its intellectual property and proprietary information. Examples of these assets include software, software licenses, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, business concepts and strategies, and financial data.
Questions and Answers
8. PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS
Windstream respects the property rights of others. In the conduct of business, Windstream will, from time to time, receive and use proprietary information of others, such as customer lists, technical developments or operational data, as well as other material that is not publicly available. This information must be held in confidence and used only in accordance with the agreements under which the information is received. You must not use the information for your own or someone else's benefit (see Inside Information).
Windstream's policy is to honor and respect the intellectual property rights of others. Such intellectual property rights include patents, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and copyrights. You should not engage in any improper use of the intellectual property rights of others, including the unlawful or unauthorized copying, revealing or use of anyone's intellectual property. You may not copy software or bring in software programs from home. Only software properly licensed by Windstream is permitted on Windstream computers.
16
 
Questions and Answers
9. CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS
Customer account information is considered proprietary and confidential in nature. As such, every employee should protect the use and access to this information. See Customer and Employee Privacy.
Falsifying or altering customer accounts or customer transactions is prohibited. Accessing your own personal billing account information or account information of family members and friends is not allowed.
Questions and Answers
10. CUSTOMER AND EMPLOYEE PRIVACY
In the conduct of business, Windstream collects and maintains personal information and data about customers and employees. Many of you have access to this personal information and data in the performance of your duties for Windstream. Protecting the privacy of our customers and employees is fundamental to Windstream's business. You must comply with laws regulating disclosure of customer and employee records or other communications.
17
 
Questions and Answers
11. ANTITRUST LAWS
Antitrust laws promote fair and open competition. Under the antitrust laws, Windstream must be completely independent to set its own prices and sales levels and to choose its own markets, customers, and suppliers. To maintain this independence, there are certain things Windstream and its employees can never do. You can never discuss with a Windstream competitor pricing or pricing policy, costs, marketing or strategic plans, or proprietary or confidential information. You cannot agree or even discuss with a competitor the prices Windstream will charge customers, nor can you agree to divide customers or markets, or to boycott certain customers, suppliers or competitors. Even where there is no formal written agreement, the mere exchange of information can create the appearance of an informal understanding, creating potential antitrust and fair competition risk.
The following guidelines provide a basic foundation to assist you in complying with these laws:
18
 
If you have any questions regarding compliance with antitrust laws, contact the Legal Department.
Questions and Answers
12. INSIDE INFORMATION
As a Windstream employee, you may learn information about Windstream, or other publicly traded companies, that is not generally known to the public and that could affect a person's decision to buy, sell or hold that company's stock. Such information is known as "material non-public information." Examples of material non-public information include financial results, financial forecasts, possible mergers, acquisitions or dispositions, significant financial developments, and significant business plans or programs. Any non-public information that would influence your own decision to buy or sell that company's stock probably is material, non-public information.
Material non-public information must be held in the strictest confidence. You must not disclose such
19
 
information to anyone unless such disclosure is necessary to carry on Windstream business in an effective and proper manner and appropriate steps have been taken by Windstream to prevent the misuse of the information.
If you know material nonpublic information about Windstream or another publicly traded company, you are prohibited from trading in that company's stock until such information has been publicly disclosed. You are also prohibited from recommending or suggesting that another person buy, sell or retain stock in the company until such information has been publicly disclosed.
Windstream also imposes specific insider trading compliance procedures on its directors and certain officers to prevent such individuals from violating the insider trading policy described in this section. These procedures also are designed to prevent the covered individuals from violating, or causing Windstream to violate, certain securities laws applicable to such individuals or the company.
Questions and Answers
13. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
Employees involved in international operations must know and abide by the laws of the United States, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and the countries in which such operations are being conducted. Under the FCPA you may not give, offer or promise anything of value to foreign officials or foreign political parties, officials or candidates, for the purpose of influencing them to misuse their official capacity to obtain or keep for, or direct business to, Windstream or to gain any improper advantage for Windstream. In
20
 
addition, the FCPA prohibits knowingly falsifying a company's books and records or knowingly circumventing or failing to implement accounting controls. The prohibitions of the FCPA apply to Windstream employees as well as third parties engaged by Windstream (such as consultants and professional advisors).
If you are not familiar with the FCPA or the laws of any foreign country in which you are involved in the course of your employment, contact the compliance committee prior to negotiating any foreign transaction.
For additional guidance, see Gifts and Entertainment and Bribes, Kickbacks and Other Improper Payments.
14. POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND ACTIVITIES
Corporate Contributions
You may not make any contribution on behalf of Windstream, or use Windstream's name, funds, property or services for the support of any political party or candidate, unless the contribution or activity is authorized in advance by the compliance committee.
Employee Political Participation
Windstream encourages employees to participate in the political process by voting or otherwise being involved in political activity. However, you should not conduct these activities on company time or use company resources such as telephones, computers or supplies. Furthermore, you should never create the impression that you are speaking or acting on behalf of Windstream when engaging in political activity or expressing a political opinion. Employees must comply at all times with the provisions of Windstream's Employee Solicitation policy outlined in People Practices on the Intranet at http://internal.windstream.com/hr/policies/.
Windstream maintains a political action committee, known as WINPAC, for the purpose of supporting political candidates and issues that support and advance Windstream's business interests. Participation in WINPAC is voluntary.
Questions and Answers
21
 
15. WAIVERS
Any waiver of these guidelines for directors or executive officers may be made only by the audit committee of Windstream's board of directors. Any waivers will be promptly disclosed as required by law or by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission or the New York Stock Exchange.
16. CONCLUSION
Thank you for taking time to become familiar with Windstream's program. Windstream's program conveys management's philosophy and expectations for employees to be ethical and comply with the law. There will be instances in which these guidelines will not specifically address the circumstances in which you are involved. When this occurs, you may find it helpful to:
Working with Integrity
Working with Integrity
To ensure Windstream's continued success, each of us, working together, must continue to establish and meet the highest standards of business ethics and personal integrity in all of our business endeavors.
Nothing in these ethical guidelines is intended to create a contract binding you or Windstream to an agreement of employment for a specific period of time. Unless contrary to applicable law, your employment can be terminated by either you or Windstream at any time, for any reason or no reason, with or without notice.
The ethical guidelines contained in this brochure constitute Windstream's code of ethics for purposes of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. No other company guideline, policy or procedure referenced or linked in this brochure or adopted by Windstream from time to time is part of the code of ethics for purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or the New York Stock Exchange rules unless such guideline, policy or procedure is expressly identified as such by the compliance committee.
Working with Integrity
22
 
___ Question concerning the principles described in Windstream's program
Working With Integrity
___ Report of conduct that is inconsistent with Windstream's program
Working With Integrity
Question/Summary of Report
Date:
                    
                    
Use interoffice restricted/confidential envelope and mail completed form to:
23
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed balance sheet as of March 31, 2006 and the unaudited pro forma combined condensed statements of income for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005 are based on the historical financial statements of Spinco and Valor. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements give effect to (1) the contribution of Alltel's wireline operations to Spinco, (2) the spin off of Spinco to Alltel's stockholders and (3) the merger of Spinco with Valor accounted for as a reverse acquisition of Valor by Spinco, with Spinco considered the accounting acquirer, based on the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements.
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements have been prepared using the purchase method of accounting as if the transaction had been completed as of January 1, 2005 for purposes of the combined condensed statements of income and on March 31, 2006 for purposes of the combined condensed balance sheet.
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements present the combination of historical financial statements of Spinco and Valor adjusted to give effect (1) to the transfer of certain assets and liabilities from and to Alltel and Spinco immediately prior to the spin-off that are not included in Spinco's historical balance sheet as of March 31, 2006, (2) the issuance of $4.9 billion of long-term debt by Windstream as further discussed in Notes (b) and (f) below (assuming Valor's outstanding notes remain outstanding), (3) to the spin-off of Spinco to Alltel's stockholders through a tax free stock dividend, payment of a special dividend by Spinco to Alltel in an amount not to exceed Alltel's tax basis in Spinco and the distribution by Spinco of certain of its debt securities to Alltel, as further discussed in Note (b) below and (4) to the merger of Spinco with Valor. (See Note (i) below.)
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements were prepared using (1) the unaudited combined financial statements of Spinco as of and for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2006 included in the proxy statement/prospectus-information statement filed on May 26, 2006, (2) the audited combined financial statements of Spinco as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 included in the proxy statement/prospectus-information statement filed on May 26, 2006, (3) the unaudited consolidated financial statements of Valor included in Valor's quarterly report on Form 10-Q as of and for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2006, and (4) the audited consolidated financial statements of Valor included in Valor's annual report on Form 10-K as of and for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.
Although Valor issued approximately 403 million of its common shares to effect the merger with Spinco, the business combination is being accounted for as a reverse acquisition with Spinco considered the accounting acquirer. As a result, the fair value of Valor's common stock issued and outstanding as of the date of the merger will be allocated to the underlying tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of Valor based on their respective fair market values, with any excess allocated to goodwill. The pro forma purchase price allocation was based on an estimate of the fair market value of the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of Valor. Certain assumptions have been made with respect to the fair market value of identifiable intangible assets as more fully described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements. As of the date of this filing, Windstream has just commenced the appraisals necessary to arrive at the fair market value of the assets and liabilities to be acquired and the related allocations of purchase price. Once Windstream has completed the appraisals necessary to finalize the required purchase price allocation after the consummation of the merger, the final allocation of purchase price will be determined. The final purchase price allocation based on third party appraisals may be different than that reflected in the pro forma purchase price allocation, and this difference may be material.
The management of Windstream is developing a plan to integrate the operations of Valor and Spinco after the merger. Both companies provide local telephone service to customers in primarily rural markets. The footprint of Spinco's rural markets and the states in which it operates are highly complementary to Valor's rural market footprint. As a result, the management of Windstream expects to fully integrate Valor's business into that of Spinco, and will report Valor's operations with those of Spinco in the wireline segment. Windstream's business strategy is not expected to differ significantly from that of either Spinco or Valor. In particular, one of the more important challenges facing both Spinco and Valor, and which is expected to continue to impact Windstream, is the loss of access lines, primarily due to wireless and broadband substitution. The management of Windstream will continue focusing on the strategy of selling enhanced services to existing customers, including broadband services, and increasing average revenue per line through a combination of new product offerings and bundling of various services. In addition to stemming the loss of access lines and related revenues, a priority of Windstream will be the generation of sufficient cash flows to fund interest payments of the long-term debt being issued, as further discussed in Notes (b), (f) and (p) below, repayment of that debt, employee benefit plan obligations, capital expenditures necessary to maintain and enhance the network, and payment of dividends pursuant to the policy established by Windstream's management.
 
In connection with the plan to integrate the operations of Valor and Spinco, management anticipates that certain non-recurring charges, such as severance and relocation expenses and branding and signage costs, will be incurred in connection with this integration. Such charges are estimated to be between $30.0 and $50.0 million as of the date of this filing. Any such charge could affect the combined results of operations of Spinco and Valor in the period in which such charges are recorded. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements do not include the effects of the costs associated with any restructuring or integration activities resulting from the transaction. In addition, the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements do not include the realization of any cost savings from operating efficiencies, synergies or other restructurings resulting from the transaction, nor do they include any potential incremental costs due to loss of synergies due to the separation from Alltel, which are expected to result in a net annual savings of approximately $40.0 million.
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of the combined results of operations or financial condition of Spinco and Valor that would have been reported had the merger been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of the future consolidated results of operations or financial condition of Spinco and Valor. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the separate historical financial statements and accompanying notes of Spinco and Valor.
 
 
 
 
 
(1) The value of Valor's common stock was calculated on the basis of (1) 71,108,619 shares outstanding as of July 17, 2006 and (2) the closing price of Valor common stock on July 17, 2006 of $11.50. The final value of Valor shares will be based on the actual number of shares outstanding as of the merger date.
 
(2) The identifiable intangibles consisted of (1) value assigned to the Valor customer base as of March 31, 2006 of $175.0 million and (2) value assigned to the Valor franchise rights as of March 31, 2006 of $500.0 million. For purposes of preparing the unaudited pro forma combined condensed statement of income, Spinco expects to amortize the fair value of the customer base on a straight-line basis over its average estimated life of six years. The franchise rights have been classified as indefinite-lived intangible assets and are not subject to amortization because Spinco expects both the renewal by the granting authorities and the cash flows generated from the franchise rights to continue indefinitely. Goodwill of $838.9 million represents the excess of the purchase price of the acquired business over the fair value of the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets at March 31, 2006. The premium paid by Spinco in this transaction is due to the potential for greater long-term returns as the combination of Spinco and Valor will create the largest telecommunications carrier in the United States which is primarily focused on rural markets. Subsequent to this merger, due to the resulting increased size and economies of scale, the combined company should have greater financial flexibility to develop and deploy products, expand the capacity of its network, respond to competitive pressures and improve the cost structure of its operations. The preliminary allocation of value to the intangible assets was based on assumptions as to the fair value of customers and franchise rights. These values were determined by use of a market approach, which seeks to measure the value of assets as compared to similar transactions in the marketplace. To determine market values, Spinco utilized a third party valuation firm to derive current market values for the customer base (computed on a per customer basis) and franchise rights licenses (computed on a per access line basis) from publicly available data for similar transactions in the wireline industry. These valuations are preliminary and do not necessarily represent the ultimate fair value of such assets that will be determined by an independent valuation firm subsequent to the consummation of the merger.
(3)Fair value adjustments of $15.0 million have been made to the carrying value of Valor's long term debt that was outstanding as of the merger date and not immediately repaid. The effect of the fair value adjustment to Valor's long-term debt will be amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the term of each debt issue. The effect of the fair value adjustment to long-term debt has been included in the adjustments to the unaudited pro forma combined condensed statement of income. See Note (p).
 
Calculation of estimated quarterly interest expense for newly issued debt of the combined company is as follows:
The weighted average interest rate for the newly issued debt was estimated to be 7.831 percent based on the three-month LIBOR rate on July 17, 2006 of 5.51 percent, resulting in quarterly interest expense of $97.2 million. A change in the weighted average interest rate of one-eighth of one percent would change quarterly interest expense by $1.6 million.
Debt issuance costs and the original issue discount are amortized over the life of the related debt. Debt issuance costs, the discount, the related amortization period and cost per quarter are estimated as follows:
 
A summary of the effects of the adjustments on interest expense are as follows:
Calculation of estimated annual interest expense for newly issued debt of the combined company is as follows:
The weighted average interest rate for the newly issued debt was estimated to be 7.831 percent, based on the three-month LIBOR rate on July 17, 2006 of 5.51 percent, resulting in annual interest expense of $388.9 million. A change in the weighted average interest rate of one-eighth of one percent would change interest expense by $6.2 million.
 
Debt issuance costs and the original issue discount are amortized over the life of the related debt. Debt issuance costs, the discount, the related amortization period and cost per year are estimated as follows:
A summary of the effects of the adjustments on interest expense are as follows:
The following pro forma contractual obligations table represents a summary of future repayments of long-term debt obligations and related interest expense resulting from the issuance of long-term debt discussed in Note (f) as of December 31, 2005. Spinco's management is currently in the process of evaluating the capital and operating leases of both Spinco and Valor and negotiating certain contracts necessary to the operations of Windstream. As a result, capital and operating leases and purchase obligations have been excluded from the following pro forma contractual obligations table. In addition, because Spinco cannot currently estimate the timing of recognition of the pro forma long-term liabilities, primarily consisting of deferred income taxes, due to net operating loss carryforwards generated by Valor that may be utilized by Windstream, such other long-term liabilities are also excluded from the following pro forma contractual obligations table:
 


