FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20060831172438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 Other Events
     As of June 30, 2006, Alltel Holding Corp. was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alltel Corporation ("Alltel") and was formed on November 2, 2005 to receive Alltel's wireline telecommunications business (the "Company" or "Wireline Division") in the contemplated spin-off and merger with Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("Valor"). The Company, or Wireline Division is not a separate stand-alone legal entity and was comprised, as of June 30, 2006, of certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and other component operations of Alltel.
     On July 17, 2006, Alltel completed the contribution of its wireline telecommunications business to Alltel Holding Corp. in exchange for all of the common stock of Alltel Holding Corp., and then Alltel Holding Corp. merged with and into Valor, with Valor as the surviving corporation. As a result of the merger, each share of Alltel Holding Corp. common stock was converted into the right to receive 1.0339267 shares of Valor common stock, and Valor issued approximately 403 million shares of its common stock. In the aggregate, immediately following the merger, Alltel's stockholders owned approximately 85 percent, and the stockholders of Valor owned the remaining 15 percent, of the outstanding common stock of Valor. Following the merger, Valor was renamed Windstream Corporation.
     On August 14, 2006, Windstream Corporation filed its Form 10-Q for the period ending June 30, 2006, as it relates to the Quarterly Report of Valor. Since Valor issued shares and was the surviving registrant in the transaction, the Financial Statements, Management's Discussion and Analysis and other Items of Part I and Part II of the filed report on Form 10-Q for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006 are reflective exclusively of Valor's stand-alone operations as they existed as of and for the periods ended June 30, 2006 prior to the completion of the merger. The accounting substance of this merger is such that Alltel Holding Corp. has been determined to be the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, in all future Exchange Act filings, the historical financial statements of Windstream for the periods prior to the completion of the merger will become those of Alltel Holding Corp. and will replace those of Valor. Valor's businesses will be included in Windstream's financial statements for only periods subsequent to the completion of the merger.
     Attached as an exhibit are the unaudited combined financial statements of the Company for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, and a Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
August 31, 2006
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99a
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
As of June 30, 2006, Alltel Holding Corp. ("the Company") was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alltel Corporation ("Alltel" or the "Parent") and was formed on November 2, 2005 to receive Alltel's wireline business in the contemplated spin-off and merger with Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("Valor"). Alltel's wireline telecommunications business is operated by certain of its subsidiaries. Prior to the closing of the spin-off and the merger, each of those subsidiaries were contributed to the Company, along with certain assets and liabilities related to the wireline business. The combined financial statements and the following discussion describes the Company and its financial condition and operations as if the Company held the subsidiaries and other assets that were transferred to it prior to the closing for all historical periods presented. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the selected combined financial data and the combined financial statements and the related notes included in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus  Information Statement filed on May 26,2006.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for the historical combined financial information contained herein, this current report and future filings by Windstream Corporation ("Windstream") on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and future oral and written statements by Windstream and its management may include certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results. Words such as "expects", "anticipates", "intends", "plans", "believes", "seeks", "estimates", and "should", and variations of these words and similar expressions, are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Windstream disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement based on the occurrence of future events, the receipt of new information, or otherwise.
Actual future events and results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Representative examples of these factors include (without limitation) adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing, and overall effects of competition in the communications business; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; changes in communications technology; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstream's debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of litigation; and the effects of federal and state legislation, rules, and regulations governing the communications industry. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes.
Basis of Presentation
The Company's combined financial statements have been derived from the accounting records of Alltel principally representing Alltel's historical wireline and communications support segments. The Company has used the historical results of operations, and historical basis of assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries it owns and the wireline business it operates after completion of the spin-off, to prepare the combined financial statements. The statements of operations include expense allocations for certain corporate functions historically provided to the Company by Alltel, including general corporate expenses, employee benefits and incentives, and interest income (expense). These allocations were made on a specifically identifiable basis or using the relative percentages, as compared to Alltel's other businesses, of net sales, payroll, fixed assets, inventory and other assets, headcount or other reasonable methods. Management of both the Company and Alltel consider these allocations to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided. The Company expects that its expenses after the separation from Alltel may be significantly higher than the amounts reflected in the combined statements of operations as the Company will incur certain incremental costs as an independent public company.
Management of the Company believes the assumptions underlying its financial statements are reasonable. However, the Company's financial statements included herein may not necessarily reflect its results of operations, financial position and cash flows in the future or what its results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had it been a separate, stand-alone company during the periods presented.
 
The Company is organized based on the products and services that it offers. Under this organizational structure, its operations consist of its wireline and product distribution segments and other operations. The Company's wireline segment consists of its incumbent local exchange carrier ("ILEC"), competitive local exchange carrier ("CLEC") and Internet access operations. The Company's product distribution segment consists of its communications products operations. The other operations include the Company's long-distance and network management services, directory publishing operations and the telecommunications information services operations.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alltel that provides local telephone, long-distance, Internet and high-speed data services. The Company provides local telephone service to approximately 2.9 million residential and business customers primarily located in rural areas in 15 states. Among the highlights in the second quarter of 2006:
As further discussed under "Acquisitions to be Completed During 2006," the Company has positioned its wirelinebusiness for future growth opportunities as a result of the spin-off from Alltel and subsequent merger with Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("Valor"). This transaction, which closed on July 17, 2006, is significant to the Company because it expanded its retail presence into new markets by adding more than 500,000 access lines in four states. The resulting company represents the largest telecommunications carrier in the United States focusing primarily on rural markets, and should have greater financial flexibility to develop and deploy products, expand the capacity of its network, respond to competitive pressures and improve the cost structure of its operations due to the resulting increased size and economies of scale.
However, during 2006, the Company will continue to face significant challenges resulting from competition in the telecommunications industry and changes in the regulatory environment, including the effects of potential changes to the rules governing universal service and inter-carrier compensation. In addressing competition, in addition to the merger with Valor discussed above, the Company will continue to focus its efforts on improving customer service and expanding its service offerings.
Acquisitions to be Completed During 2006
On July 17, 2006, Alltel completed the spin-off of its wireline telecommunications business to its stockholders (the "Distribution") and the merger of that wireline business with Valor (the "Merger"). Pursuant to the plan of Distribution and immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger with Valor described below, Alltel contributed all of the wireline assets in exchange for: (i) newly issued Company common stock (ii) the payment of a special dividend to Alltel in an amount of $2.3 billion and (iii) the distribution by the Company to Alltel of certain debt securities (the "Contribution"). In connection with the Contribution, the Company assumed approximately $261.0 million of long-term debt that had been issued by the Company's wireline subsidiaries. Also in connection with the Contribution the Company borrowed approximately $2.4 billion through a new senior credit agreement that was used to fund the special dividend and pay down a portion of the $261.0 million long-term debt assumed by the Company in the Contribution. The debt securities issued by the Company to Alltel as part of the Contribution consisted of 8.625 percent senior notes due 2016 with an aggregate principal amount of $1,746.0 million (the "Company Securities"). The Company Securities were issued at a discount, and accordingly, at the date of Distribution to Alltel, the Company Securities had a carrying value of $1,703.2 million (par value of $1,746.0 million less discount of $42.8 million). Following the Contribution, Alltel distributed 100 percent of the common shares of the Company to its shareholders as a tax-free dividend. It also exchanged the Company Securities for certain Alltel debt held by certain investment banking firms. The investment banking firms subsequently sold the Company Securities in the private placement market.
 
Immediately following the Merger, the Company issued 8.125 percent senior notes due in 2013 in the aggregate principal amount of $800.0 million which was used in part to pay down the Valor credit facility in the amount of $781.0 million. As a result, Windstream assumed approximately $5.5 billion of long-term debt in connection with the Distribution and the Merger.
Immediately after the consummation of the spin-off, the Company merged with and into Valor, with Valor continuing as the surviving corporation. The resulting company was renamed Windstream Corporation ("Windstream"). As a result of the merger, all of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company common stock were converted into the right to receive an aggregate number of shares of common stock of Valor. Valor issued in the aggregate approximately 403 million shares of its common stock to Alltel shareholders pursuant to the Merger, or 1.0339267 shares of Valor common stock for each share of the Company's common stock outstanding as of the effective date of the Merger. Upon completion of the Merger, Alltel's stockholders owned approximately 85 percent of the outstanding equity interests of the surviving corporation, Windstream, and the stockholders of Valor owned the remaining approximately 15 percent of such equity interests.
COMBINED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Total revenues and sales decreased 1 percent in both the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, or $5.2 million and $14.8 million, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. Service revenues decreased by 1 percent, or $8.6 million, and 2 percent, or $24.0 million, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. Wireline local access service and network access and toll revenues decreased $18.5 million and $39.4 million in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, primarily as a result of the loss of wireline access lines due, in part, to broadband and wireless substitution. Offsetting this decline were increases in revenues derived from data services of $8.6 million and $16.2 million in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005, reflecting the growth in the Company's broadband customer base and continued customer demand.
Product sales increased $3.4 million, or 3 percent, and $9.2 million, or 4 percent, in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. The increase in product sales was primarily driven by an increase in sales of telecommunications equipment and data products to the Company's regulated wireline operations that are accounted for under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation", as further discussed below.
 
Cost of services, which represents the cost of provisioning service, as well as business taxes and bad debt expense, decreased $15.8 million, or 8 percent, and $26.5 million, or 6 percent, in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. Cost of services in the six month period in 2005 included approximately $3.2 million of incremental costs incurred during the first quarter of 2005 related to work force reductions in the Company's wireline business, as well as higher overtime and maintenance costs due to inclement weather. In addition, the Company's long-distance and network management operations reflected reduced costs from Alltel for carrying the long-distance traffic on Alltel's network in the six month period of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. Partially offsetting these declines in cost of services were additional costs incurred by the Company's wireline operations from other carriers for transport and termination of intrastate traffic in accordance with the terms of new reciprocal compensation agreements negotiated with these carriers that took effect subsequent to March 2005.
Cost of products sold increased $1.3 million, or 1 percent, and $6.5 million, or 4 percent, in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. The increase was consistent with the overall growth in product sales noted above. Selling, general, administrative and other expenses changed slightly in the three month period and decreased $4.8 million, or 3 percent, in the six month period ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. Selling, general, administrative and other expenses for both periods of 2006 were affected by the decline in allocations received from Alltel related to services that Alltel provides for the Company under a shared services agreement. Selling, general, administrative and other expenses in the three month period ended June 30, 2006, included additional pension and postretirement expense in conjunction with the transfer of pension assets and other postretirement liabilities, as discussed in Note 8. The additional pension and postretirement expense is primarily due to the change in the allocation of these costs between the Alltel business segments. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $24.8 million, or 20 percent, and $47.9 million, or 19 percent, in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. The decline primarily resulted from a reduction in depreciation rates for certain of the Company's ILEC operations, reflecting the results of studies of depreciable lives completed during 2006 and 2005.
Royalty expense to Parent decreased, $5.1 million, or 8 percent, and $5.3 million, or 4 percent, in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. The Company's ILEC subsidiaries incurred a royalty expense from Alltel for the use of the Alltel brand name in marketing and distributing telecommunications products and services pursuant to a licensing agreement with an Alltel affiliate. Following the spin-off and merger with Valor, the Company will no longer incur this charge as the Company will no longer use the Alltel brand name.
Operating income increased $34.1 million, or 23 percent, and $55.7 million, or 18 percent, in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005, primarily reflecting the decrease in depreciation and amortization expense resulting from depreciation studies completed during 2005 and 2006, partially offset by the decline in wireline revenues caused by the loss of access lines. Operating income comparisons for the six months ended June 30, 2006 were also affected by the effects of restructuring and other charges, as further discussed below. The changes in wireline, product distribution and other operations in 2006 are further discussed below under "Results of Operations by Business Segment".
Restructuring and Other Charges
In connection with the spin-off of the Company and merger with Valor, during the six months ended June 30, 2006, the Company incurred $7.5 million of incremental costs, primarily consisting of additional consulting and legal fees. There were no restructuring or other charges incurred by the Company during the six months ended June 30, 2005. At June 30, 2006, the remaining unpaid liability related to these charges was $0.6 million. Cash outlays for the remaining unpaid liability will be disbursed over the next 12 months and will be funded from operating cash flows. (See Note 6 to the unaudited interim combined financial statements for additional information regarding the restructuring and other charges.)
Other Income, Net
Other income, net increased $1.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to the same period of 2005, primarily due to the realization of gains from the sale of certain non-operating assets during the 2006 period.
Intercompany Interest Income
The Company participated in a cash management program with its parent company. Under this program, the Company earned interest on amounts remitted to Alltel at a rate based on current market rates for short-term investments and paid interest on amounts received from Alltel at a rate based on Alltel's weighted-average borrowing rate. Intercompany interest income increased $13.4 million and $28.2 million in the three and six month
 
periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. The increase is due to an increase in the amount of funds remitted to Alltel under the cash management program, combined with an increase in the advance interest rate.
Interest Expense
Interest expense was relatively unchanged in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006 compared to the same periods of 2005.
Income Taxes
Income tax expense increased $23.2 million, or 41 percent, and $36.8 million, or 32 percent, in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. The increase in income tax expense in 2006 was consistent with the overall growth in the Company's income before income taxes. The Company's effective income tax rates increased to 40.3 percent and 39.7 percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, compared to 37.6 percent and 38.8 percent for the corresponding periods of 2005, primarily due to the tax-related effects of the restructuring and other charges previously discussed. In determining its quarterly provision for income taxes, the Company uses an estimated annual effective tax rate, which is based on its expected annual income, statutory rates and tax planning opportunities and reflects the Company's best estimate of the ultimate outcome of tax examinations and assessments. Significant or unusual items are separately recognized in the quarter in which they occur.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
Wireline Operations
Wireline operations consists of the Company's ILEC, CLEC and Internet operations. Wireline revenues and sales decreased $15.0 million, or 3 percent, and $31.3 million, or 3 percent, in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. Customer access lines decreased 4 percent during the twelve months ended June 30, 2006, reflecting declines in both primary and secondary access lines. The Company lost approximately 31,000 and 54,000 access lines during the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to 30,000 and 56,000 access lines lost during the same periods in 2005. The declines in access lines primarily resulted from the effects of wireless and alternative voice providers for the Company's wireline services. The Company expects access lines to continue to be impacted by the effects of wireless and broadband substitution for the remainder of 2006. Although we have not yet seen significant competition from Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") providers, we also expect VoIP substitution to adversely impact the number of access lines served by our wireline operations during the remainder of 2006.
To slow the decline of revenue during the remainder of 2006, the Company will continue to emphasize sales of enhanced services and bundling of its various product offerings including broadband, voice and digital satellite television. Deployment of broadband service is an important strategic initiative for the Company, and as of June 30,
 
2006, approximately 77 percent of our addressable lines were broadband-capable. During the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, the Company added approximately 40,000 and 84,000 broadband customers, respectively, increasing its broadband customer base to over 481,000 customers representing a penetration rate of 17 percent of access lines in service. In terms of total connections, the growth in the Company's broadband customers more than offset the decline in customer access lines noted above. As a result, as further discussed below, revenues generated from the sales of data services increased in the first quarter of 2006, which partially to offset the adverse effects on wireline revenues resulting from the loss of access lines. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2005, we began offering DISH Network satellite television service to our residential customers as part of a bundled product offering.
Local service revenues consist of local exchange telephone services provided to both residential and business customers, including monthly recurring charges for basic service such as local dial-tone and enhanced services such as caller identification, voicemail and call waiting and non-recurring charges for service activation and reconnection of service. Local service revenues decreased $14.9 million, or 5 percent, and $23.5 million, or 4 percent, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. The decline in local service revenues reflected reductions consistent with the overall decline in access lines discussed above.
Network access and interconnection revenues include switched access, special access and end user charges. Switched access represents usage sensitive charges to long distance companies for access to our network in connection with the completion of interstate and intrastate long-distance calls. Special access represents dedicated circuits, including circuits used to provide broadband service, and end user charges are monthly flat-rate charges assessed on access lines. Network access and interconnection revenues decreased $3.4 million, or 1 percent, and $12.3 million, or 2 percent, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. Primarily due to the overall decline in access lines discussed above, network access usage revenues decreased $3.6 million and $15.9 million in the three and six month periods of 2006, compared to the same periods of 2005. In addition, federal and state Universal Service Fund ("USF") funding decreased $5.1 million and $7.3 million in the three and six month periods of 2006, compared to the same periods of 2005, primarily due to a decrease in the high-cost loop support ("HCLS") funding received by our ILEC subsidiaries. The decreases in HCLS funding primarily resulted from increases in the national average cost per loop combined with the effects of our cost control efforts. Receipts from the HCLS fund are based on a comparison of each company's embedded cost per loop to a national average cost per loop. Primarily due to expected increases in the national average cost per loop and our continued focus on controlling operating costs in our ILEC business, we expect net USF receipts in 2006 to decline by approximately $15.0 million, compared to 2005.
The declines in network access and long-distance revenues attributable to access line loss and the decrease in federal and state USF funding were partially offset by growth in revenues from data services, which increased $5.4 million and $10.9 million in the three and six month periods of 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005, reflecting increased demand for high-speed data transport services.
Miscellaneous revenues primarily consist of charges for Internet services, directory advertising, customer premise equipment sales and rentals, and billing and collections services provided to long-distance companies. Miscellaneous revenues increased by $3.3 million, or 5 percent, and $4.5 million, or 4 percent, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. Primarily driven by growth in broadband customers, revenues from the Company's Internet operations increased $3.2 million and $5.3 million in the three and six month periods of 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. Also, we generated $1.9 million and $3.4 million in revenue in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005, in conjunction with offering DISH Network satellite television service to our residential customers as discussed above. Offsetting the increases in miscellaneous revenues due to growth in the Company's Internet operations and commissions revenues were decreases in directory advertising revenues of $1.1 million and $2.0 million in the three and six month periods of 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005, primarily due to a change in the number and mix of directories published.
Primarily due to the broadband customer growth, average revenue per customer per month increased 2 percent in both the three and six month periods of 2006, compared to the same periods in 2005. Future growth in average revenue per customer per month will depend on the Company's success in sustaining growth in sales of broadband and other enhanced services to new and existing customers.
Cost of services decreased $9.2 million, or 5 percent, and $13.8 million, or 4 percent, in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the prior year periods. Cost of services for the six month period in 2005 included approximately $3.2 million of incremental costs related to work force reductions in the Company's wireline business, as well as higher overtime and maintenance costs due to inclement weather. Compared to the same prior year periods, cost of services decreased $1.6 million and $4.0 million in the
 
three and six month periods of 2006, respectively, primarily due to cost savings from the Company's continued efforts to control operating expenses within the customer service organization. In addition, cost of services in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006 included a decrease in bad debt expense of $1.2 million and $3.0 million, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005, consistent with the decline in revenues discussed above. Also, cost of services declined in the six month period of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005 due to decreases in costs associated with providing broadband-capable modems to new broadband customers driven by volume discounts earned by the Company. Conversely, interconnection expenses increased $4.1 million in the six month period of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005, primarily due to additional costs charged by other carriers for transport and termination of intrastate traffic in accordance with the terms of new reciprocal compensation agreements negotiated with these carriers that took effect subsequent to March 2005.
Cost of products sold for the three and six month periods of 2006 were relatively unchanged from the same periods in 2005. Selling, general, administrative and other expenses increased $1.9 million, or 3 percent, in the three month period and decreased $4.8 million, or 3 percent, in the six month period ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. Selling, general, administrative and other expenses for both periods of 2006 were affected by the decline in intercompany allocations received from Alltel due to incremental costs in the 2005 period related to costs incurred by Alltel in complying with the Section 404 internal control reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under a shared services agreement, Alltel provides certain functions on the Company's behalf, including but not limited to accounting, marketing, customer billing, information technology, legal, human resources, and engineering services. Selling, general, administrative and other expenses in the three month period ended June 30, 2006, included additional pension and postretirement expense in conjunction with the transfer of pension assets and other postretirement liabilities, as discussed in Note 8. The additional pension and postretirement expense is primarily due to the change in the allocation of these costs between the Alltel business segments.
Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $24.6 million, or 20 percent, and $47.6 million, or 19 percent, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to the same periods of 2005. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense primarily resulted from a reduction in depreciation rates for the Company's Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina operations, reflecting the results of studies of depreciable lives completed during 2005, and for its Pennsylvania operations, reflecting the results of a study completed during January 2006. During April 2006, the Company completed studies of the depreciable lives of assets held and used in its Alabama and North Carolina operations. The related depreciation rates were changed retroactively effective April 1, 2006. This change is expected to lower depreciation by approximately $4.0 million quarterly, or $16 million annually. The depreciable lives were lengthened to reflect the estimated remaining useful lives of the wireline plant based on the Company's expected future network utilization and capital expenditure levels required to provide service to its customers. During the remainder of 2006 and 2007, the Company expects to review the depreciation rates utilized in its remaining wireline operations.
Royalty expense to Parent decreased $5.1 million, or 8 percent, and $5.3 million, or 4 percent, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to the same periods of 2005. The Company ILEC subsidiaries incurred a royalty expense from Alltel for the use of the Alltel brand name in marketing and distributing telecommunications products and services pursuant to a licensing agreement with an Alltel affiliate. Following the spin-off and merger with Valor, the Campany no longer incurs this charge as the Company no longer uses the Alltel brand name.
Wireline segment income increased $22.7 million, or 16 percent, and $39.8 million, or 14 percent, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. The increase in segment income in the second quarter of 2006 primarily resulted from the favorable effects of reduced depreciation rates and the incremental expenses associated with work force reductions and higher overtime costs incurred in the first quarter of 2005, which were partially offset by the decline in revenues and sales due to the loss of access lines, as discussed above.
During the six months ending June 30, 2006, restructuring and other charges totaling $7.5 million related to the pending spin-off of the wireline operations were not included in the determination of wireline segment income. No restructuring and other charges were incurred related to the wireline operations during the same period of 2005.
Accounting for Regulated Entities
Except for the acquired Kentucky and Nebraska operations, the Company's ILEC operations follow the accounting for regulated enterprises prescribed by SFAS No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation". Criteria that would give rise to the discontinuance of SFAS No. 71 include (1) increasing competition restricting the regulated ILEC subsidiaries' ability to establish prices to recover specific costs and (2) significant changes in the manner in which rates are set by regulators from cost-based regulation to another form of regulation. The Company
 
reviews these criteria on a quarterly basis to determine whether the continuing application of SFAS No. 71 is appropriate. In assessing the continued applicability of SFAS No. 71, the Company monitors the following:
Discontinuance of the Application of SFAS No. 71:
Recent changes have impacted the dynamics of our current business environment. For example, on July 12, 2006, the Company transitioned its Kentucky intrastate operations, currently subject to rate-of-return regulation, to a newly established statutory alternative form of regulation. In addition, on July 17, 2006, Windstream announced its completion of the spin-off of Alltel Corporation's landline business and merger with Valor, as discussed above. Accordingly, the Windstream has considered these events in its current assessment of criteria for the continued application of SFAS No. 71. Other factors that were considered in this assessment since June 30, 2006 include:
Based on these material factors impacting its operations, Windstream anticipates, as of the third quarter 2006, it may no longer be appropriate to continue the application of SFAS No. 71 for reporting its financial results.
Assuming that the Company decides it is no longer appropriate to continue the application of SFAS No. 71, the accounting impact for the Company to discontinue the application of SFAS No. 71 is the elimination of certain intercompany revenues and related expenses and an extraordinary non-cash credit to operations. The non-cash credit would consist primarily of the reversal of the regulatory liability for cost of removal included in accumulated depreciation, which amounted to $159.9 million as of June 30, 2006. At this time, the Company does not expect to record any impairment charge related to the carrying value of its ILEC plant. Under SFAS No. 71, the Company currently depreciates its ILEC plant based upon asset lives approved by regulatory agencies or as otherwise allowed by law. Upon discontinuance of SFAS No. 71, the Company would be required to revise the lives of its property, plant and equipment to reflect the estimated useful lives of the assets. The Company does not expect any revisions in asset lives to have a material adverse effect on its ILEC operations.
Regulatory Matters-Wireline Operations
The Company's ILECs are regulated by both federal and state agencies. Certain of the Company's products and services (interstate) and the related earnings are subject to federal regulation and others (local and intrastate) are subject to state regulation. With the exception of the Nebraska and a portion of the Kentucky operations, the Company's ILEC operations are subject to rate-of-return regulation federally by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"). The Nebraska and a portion of the Kentucky operations are subject to price-cap regulation by the FCC that allows a greater degree of retail pricing flexibility than is afforded to the Company's rate-of-return operations. Companies meeting certain criteria had the option to elect price-cap regulation as part of FCC order
 
issued in May 2000 (the "CALLS plan"). The CALLS plan expired on June 30, 2005, and to date, the FCC has not established a successor mechanism for regulating price-cap companies. Nonetheless, the existing rules and regulations for price-cap companies remain effective until the FCC modifies or otherwise replaces them with a successor mechanism.
Telecommunications Law Reform
In 1996, Congress passed the Telecommunications Act of 1996 ("the 96 Act"), which significantly changed the existing laws and regulations governing the telecommunications industry. The primary goal of the 96 Act was to create competition in the wireline market by requiring ILECs to sell portions of their networks to competitors at reduced wholesale rates. The 96 Act also established rules for interconnecting wireline and wireless service providers' networks. Unfortunately, the 96 Act failed to contemplate the rapid evolution of technology and the associated consumer demand for wireless services, the Internet and VoIP. Today, providers of communications services are regulated differently depending primarily upon the network technology used to deliver service. In an effort to reform the manner in which telecommunications service providers are regulated, bills have been introduced in Congress designed to reduce the existing level of regulation on the industry and update applicable laws governing, among other things, interconnection, intercarrier compensation, the provision of broadband services, universal service contribution and distribution methodologies, the video franchise approval process and "net neutrality". At this time, the prospect for federal legislation this year is uncertain, and therefore the Company cannot predict the outcome of these efforts to reform regulation of the telecommunications industry.
State Regulation
Most states in which the Company's ILEC subsidiaries operate provide alternatives to rate-of-return regulation for local and intrastate services, either through legislative or public service commission ("PSC") rules. The Company has elected alternative regulation for certain of its ILEC subsidiaries in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and Texas. On July 12, 2006, the Company elected to have its existing Kentucky operations, currently subject to rate-of-return regulation, regulated under a newly established statutory alternative form of regulation. The Company continues to evaluate alternative regulation options in markets where its ILEC subsidiaries remain subject to rate-of-return regulation, which are Mississippi and New York.
Inter-carrier Compensation
In April 2001, the FCC released a notice of proposed rulemaking addressing inter-carrier compensation. Under this rulemaking, the FCC proposed a "bill and keep" compensation methodology under which each telecommunications carrier would be required to recover all of its costs to originate and terminate telecommunications traffic from its end-user customers rather than charging other carriers. The proposed "bill and keep" method would significantly overhaul the existing rules governing inter-carrier compensation. On March 3, 2005, the FCC released a further notice of proposed rulemaking addressing inter-carrier compensation. Under this proposed rulemaking, the FCC requested comment on several alternative inter-carrier compensation proposals, including "bill and keep". The outcome of this proceeding is likely to change the way the Company receives compensation from, and remits compensation to, other carriers and its end user customers. Until this proceeding concludes and the changes to the existing rules are established, if any, the Company cannot estimate the impact of the changes on its ILEC revenues and expenses or when the changes would occur.
On October 8, 2004, the FCC granted in part and denied in part a petition filed by Core Communications requesting that the FCC forbear from enforcing provisions of the FCC's 2001 Internet Service Provider ("ISP") Remand Order. The FCC granted forbearance from the ISP Remand Order's growth caps and new market rule finding they were no longer in the public interest. The FCC denied forbearance from the ISP Remand Order's rate cap and mirroring rules. Various parties have filed for reconsideration with the FCC and appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. On June 30, 2006, the Court upheld the FCC's decision in this matter. As a result, the Company is likely to incur additional costs for delivering ISP-bound traffic to competitive wireline service providers. The Company estimates that the additional expense would not likely exceed $5.0 million annually.
On July 6, 2005, a hearing examiner issued a recommended order to the Georgia PSC that, if adopted, would prospectively preclude LECs from assessing access charges for certain intrastate calls. The Company, along with other LECs in Georgia, requested that the Georgia PSC reject the recommended order and find that access charges continue to apply to these intrastate calls. If the Georgia PSC ultimately adopts the recommended order, the Company would incur a reduction in annual revenues of approximately $12.0 million. A final order has not yet been issued, and it appears unlikely that the Georgia PSC will take action.
 
Universal Service
The federal universal service program is under legislative, regulatory and industry scrutiny as a result of growth in the fund and structural changes within the telecommunications industry. The structural changes include the increase in the number of Eligible Telecommunications Carrier's receiving money from the USF and a migration of customers from wireline service providers to providers using alternative technologies like VoIP that, as of the date of this report, are not required to contribute to the universal service program. There are several FCC proceedings underway that are likely to change the way universal service programs are funded and the way these funds are disbursed to program recipients. The specific proceedings are discussed in greater detail below.
In May 2001, the FCC adopted the Rural Task Force Order that established an interim universal service mechanism governing compensation for rural telephone companies for the ensuing five years. The interim mechanism has allowed rural carriers to continue receiving high-cost funding based on their embedded costs. On June 2, 2004, the FCC asked the Federal/State Joint Board on Universal Service (the "Joint Board") to review the FCC's rules as they pertain to rural telephone companies and to determine what changes, if any, should be made to the existing high-cost support mechanism when the interim funding program expires in June 2006. The Joint Board sought comment on such a mechanism on August 16, 2004, but has taken no further action. On May 8, 2006, the FCC extended the interim mechanism until the time the Commission adopts new high-cost support rules for rural carriers. In addition, the Joint Board sought comment on whether companies operating multiple distinct geographic market areas within a state should consolidate them for purposes of calculating universal service support. If the FCC implements this proposal, the Company's universal service revenues would be reduced from their current level by approximately $8.5 million annually. On August 17, 2005, the Joint Board sought comment on four separate proposals to modify the distribution of high-cost universal service support. Each of the proposals provides state public service commissions a greater role in the support distribution process, which would remain subject to specific FCC guidelines. The Company cannot estimate the impact of the potential change from embedded cost to another methodology, or the impact of other potential changes to the fund contemplated by the Joint Board until the specific changes, if any, are determined.
On June 14, 2005, the FCC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking initiating a broad inquiry into the management and administration of the universal service programs. The notice of proposed rulemaking seeks comment on ways to streamline the application process for federal support and whether and how to increase audits of fund contributors and fund recipients in an effort to deter waste and fraud. The FCC is also considering proposals regarding the contribution methodology, which could change the types of service providers required to contribute to the fund (i.e. local exchange providers, wireless providers, long-distance providers, etc.) and the basis on which they contribute. As of the date of this report, the Company cannot estimate the impact that the potential changes, if any, would have on its operations.
On December 9, 2005, the FCC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking seeking comments on the need to redefine certain statutory terms established by the 96 Act. Changes to these defined statutory terms could result in a different allocation of Universal Service support to non-rural carriers. The Company receives approximately $9.5 million annually in non-rural universal service support and cannot estimate the financial impact resulting from changes to the definitions of the statutory terms until such changes, if any, are determined.
The FCC mandated that Universal Service Administrative Company ("USAC") begin accounting for the USF program in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for federal agencies effective October 1, 2004, rather than the accounting rules that USAC formerly used. This change in accounting method subjected USAC to the Anti-Deficiency Act ("ADA"), the effect of which could have caused delays in payments to USF program recipients and significantly increased the amount of USF regulatory fees charged to wireline and wireless consumers. In December 2004, Congress passed legislation to exempt USAC from the ADA for one year to allow for a more thorough review of the impact the ADA would have on the universal service program. In April 2005, the FCC tentatively concluded that the high-cost and low-income universal service programs are compliant with ADA requirements, and asked the OMB to make a final determination on this issue, which they have yet to do. The 2006 Science, State, Commerce and Justice Department appropriations bill includes a provision that prohibits the FCC from enacting a primary connection restriction on universal service support.
Emerging Competitive Technologies  VoIP
Voice telecommunications services utilizing IP as the underlying transmission technology ("VoIP") are challenging existing regulatory definitions and raising questions concerning how IP-enabled services should be regulated, if at all. Several state commissions have attempted to assert jurisdiction over VoIP services, but federal courts in New York and Minnesota have ruled that the FCC preempts the states with respect to jurisdiction. These cases are on appeal. On March 10, 2004, the FCC released a notice of proposed rulemaking seeking comment on the appropriate
 
regulatory treatment of IP-enabled communications services. The FCC indicated that the cost of the public switched telephone network should be borne equitably by the users and requested comment on the specific regulatory requirements that should be extended to IP-enabled service providers, including requirements relating to E-911, accessibility for the disabled, inter-carrier compensation and universal service. Although the FCC's rulemaking regarding IP-enabled services remains pending, the FCC has adopted a series of related orders establishing broad parameters for the regulation of those services.
On February 12, 2004, the FCC released an order declaring Pulver.com's "free" IP-based, peer-to-peer service that requires specialized telephone equipment or software for computers was not a regulated "telecommunications service", but rather was an unregulated "information service" subject to federal jurisdiction.
On April 21, 2004, the FCC denied a waiver petition filed by AT&T requesting that its IP telephony service be exempt from paying access compensation to wireline local service providers and from contributions to the universal service fund. The FCC ruled AT&T's IP telephony service, which converted voice calls to an IP format for some portion of the routing over the public switched telephone network prior to converting the calls back to their original format, was a regulated "telecommunications service" subject to payment of access compensation to LECs, as well as the universal service fund.
On November 12, 2004, the FCC ruled that Internet-based service provided by Vonage Holdings Corporation ("Vonage") should be subject to federal rather than state jurisdiction. The FCC has not yet determined how Vonage's service should be classified for regulatory purposes, but is likely to address the "information service" vs. "telecommunications service" debate in its pending rulemaking regarding IP-enabled services. Several state commissions appealed the FCC's Vonage decision, and these appeals are presently pending before the U.S. Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals.
On June 3, 2005, the FCC took swift action in response to several incidents where VoIP customers were unable to complete E-911 calls. The FCC ordered all VoIP service providers whose service is interconnected with the public switched telephone network to provide E-911 services to their customers no later than November 28, 2005.
On September 21, 2005, the FCC released its order on the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act ("CALEA") requirements for broadband and ISP services, including VoIP services. The FCC found that essentially, ISP and VoIP services are "telecommunications services" subject to CALEA requirements. Several appeals have been filed. If the FCC ultimately determines that IP-enabled services are not subject to similar regulatory requirements that are applicable to inter-exchange and local exchange service providers, including contributions to state universal service programs, inter-carrier compensation obligations, federal and state tax obligations and service quality metrics, the Company's regulated local exchange operations will be competitively disadvantaged. However, until the FCC issues its decision in these proceedings, the Company cannot determine the extent of the impact on its operations, if any.
Broadband
On September 23, 2005, the FCC released an order declaring wireline broadband Internet access service ("DSL") an "information service" functionally integrated with a telecommunications component and no longer subject to a higher level of regulation as compared to broadband cable modem service. This order establishes a framework that may eventually allow the Company's DSL service to obtain regulatory parity with cable modem service, which is lightly regulated. The FCC order requires wireline broadband service providers, like the Company, to continue offering broadband access on a stand-alone basis to competing unaffiliated Internet service providers for one year, after which they will no longer be required to do so. Additionally, the order preserves the current method of assessing universal service contributions on DSL revenues for a 270-day period after the effective date of the order, or until the FCC adopts a new contribution methodology to the universal service fund. The order provides price cap companies the option to deregulate DSL, de-tariff DSL or keep DSL regulated as it is today. The Company could benefit from the decreased regulatory oversight of its DSL service through additional retail pricing flexibility. The Company's DSL products are experiencing significant growth throughout its service areas and the primary DSL competitor is the historically less regulated cable modem service. The Company's DSL products and services currently remain regulated by the FCC.
Because certain of the regulatory matters discussed above are under FCC or judicial review, resolution of these matters continues to be uncertain, and the Company cannot predict at this time the specific effects, if any, that the 96 Act, regulatory decisions and rulemakings, and future competition will ultimately have on its ILEC operations.
 
Product Distribution
Revenues and sales from the Company's product distribution are derived from revenues associated with sales of telecommunications equipment to affiliated and non-affiliated communications companies. Revenues and sales from the Company's product distribution operations increased $1.8 million, or 2 percent, and $2.1 million, or 1 percent, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. Sales of telecommunications equipment and data products to the Company's affiliated entities decreased $0.6 million and $4.2 million in the second quarter of 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year, due to the timing of capital expenditures in the Company's wireline operations. Alternatively, sales to external customers increased $2.4 million and $6.3 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005. Segment income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005, also increased $2.1 million, or 263 percent, and $2.5 million, or 156 percent, primarily due to improved margins on sales to affiliated companies. Prices for products sold to internal customers are established at a level that will allow the product distribution operations to recover its operating cost, plus a small operating profit.
Other
Revenues and sales from the Company's other operations are derived from revenues associated with publishing directories for affiliated and non-affiliated local exchange carriers; charges for long-distance services including toll-free calling card services, dedicated access conference calling and bill management performed in connection with our long-distance business; and charges to non-affiliated telecommunications companies for information services, primarily customer billing. Revenues and sales attributable to the Company's other operations increased $7.3 million, or 8 percent, and $9.2 million, or 5 percent, in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005.
Revenues attributable to long-distance and network management services increased $5.4 million and $8.3 million in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, as compared to the same periods in 2005, primarily are driven by new rate plans initiated in Georgia, Alabama and Nebraska markets during the second quarter of 2006 that offer monthly recurring charges for reduced billing rates for long distance services. In response to
 
competitive pressures, the Company continues to introduce in its long-distance markets rate plans that provide customers with various billing options. In addition, the majority of the Company's long distance customers are also local access customers. Therefore, the decline in long distance customers is consistent with the loss of access lines previously discussed. Telecommunications information services revenues changed slightly during the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2005, due to billings earned related to one of Alltel's remaining unaffiliated wireline services customer, Valor. Following the spin-off and merger with Valor, the Company will no longer incur revenues for these activities. Revenues derived from directory publishing increased $1.3 million and $1.5 million in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2005, primarily due to additional revenues for directory enhancements during the second quarter 2006.
Other operations segment income increased $14.3 million, or 238 percent, and $20.9 million, or 160 percent, in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006 compared to the same periods in 2005, primarily due to increased margins in the Company's long-distance and network management operations. Although revenues and sales attributable to long-distance and network management services increased as discussed above, operating expenses for that business decreased $6.9 million and $10.8 million in the three and six month periods of 2006, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2005, primarily due to a decrease in the charges incurred from Alltel for carrying the Company's long-distance traffic on Alltel's network.
FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Cash Flows-Operating Activities
Cash provided from operations is the Company's primary source of liquidity. The increase in cash provided from operations for the six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to June 30, 2005 primarily reflected the changes in working capital requirements, including timing differences in the billing and collection of accounts receivable, purchase of inventory and payment of accounts payable and income taxes. During the first six months of 2006, the Company generated sufficient cash flows from operations to fund its capital expenditure requirements, dividend payments to Alltel and scheduled long-term debt payments as further discussed below. The Company expects to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund its operating requirements during the balance of 2006.
Cash Flows-Investing Activities
Capital expenditures are the Company's primary use of capital resources. Capital expenditures for the six months ended June 30, 2006 were $155.4 million compared to $159.1 million for the same period in 2005. Capital expenditures in both years were incurred to construct additional network facilities and to upgrade the Company's telecommunications network in order to offer other communications services, including Internet and broadband communications services. The Company funded substantially all of its capital expenditures through internally generated funds.
Cash Flows-Financing Activities
Dividend payments to Alltel were a significant use of capital resources for the Company. Dividend payments to Alltel amounted to $98.8 million in the six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $107.5 million for the same period in 2005. As further discussed under "Liquidity and Capital Resources," in connection with the spin-off, on July 17, 2006, the Company paid a special dividend to Alltel of $2.3 billion. The Company funded the special dividend payment from borrowings under a new senior secured credit agreement.
Retirements of long-term debt were $0.1 million for both the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Retirements of long-term debt in both periods reflected the required scheduled principal payments under the Company's existing long-term debt obligations.
 
As previously discussed, the Company participates in the centralized cash management practices of Alltel. Under these practices, cash balances are transferred daily to Alltel bank accounts, and the Company obtains interim financing from Alltel to fund its daily cash requirements and invests short-term excess funds with Alltel. At both June 30, 2006 and 2005, the Company had a net payable to Alltel, which is included in Parent Company Investment in the accompanying unaudited combined balance sheets. During both the second quarter of 2006 and 2005, the Company reduced its overall net borrowings from Alltel. Reductions in advances to Alltel amounted to $272.6 million and $199.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
The Company believes that it has adequate operating cash flows to finance its ongoing operating requirements, including capital expenditures, repayment of long-term debt and payment of dividends. As previously discussed, in conjunction with the spin-off, On July 17, 2006, Alltel completed the spin-off of its wireline telecommunications business to its stockholders (the "Distribution") and the merger of that wireline business with Valor (the "Merger"). Pursuant to the plan of Distribution and immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger with Valor described below, Alltel contributed all of the wireline assets in exchange for: (i) newly issued Company common stock (ii) the payment of a special dividend to Alltel in an amount of $2.3 billion and (iii) the distribution by the Company to Alltel of certain debt securities (the "Contribution"). In connection with the Contribution, the Company assumed approximately $261.0 million of long-term debt that had been issued by the Company's wireline subsidiaries. Also in connection with the Contribution the Company borrowed approximately $2.4 billion through a new senior credit agreement that was used to fund the special dividend and pay down a portion of the $261.0 million long-term debt assumed by the Company in the Contribution. The debt securities issued by the Company to Alltel as part of the Contribution consisted of 8.625 percent senior notes due 2016 with an aggregate principal amount of $1,746.0 million (the "Company Securities"). The Company Securities were issued at a discount, and accordingly, at the date of Distribution to Alltel, the Company Securities had a carrying value of $1,703.2 million (par value of $1,746.0 million less discount of $42.8 million). Following the Contribution, Alltel distributed 100 percent of the common shares of the Company to its shareholders as a tax-free dividend. It also exchanged the Company Securities for certain Alltel debt held by certain investment banking firms. The investment banking firms subsequently sold the Company Securities in the private placement market.
Immediately following the Merger, the Company issued 8.125 percent senior notes due in 2013 in the aggregate principal amount of $800.0 million which was used in part to pay down the Valor credit facility in the amount of $781.0 million. As a result, Windstream assumed approximately $5.5 billion of long-term debt in connection with the Distribution and the Merger. By virtue of the merger, Windstream assumed $261.0 million in Alltel debt, of which $80.8 million (plus $8.1 million in related make-whole premiums and $1.9 million in accrued interest) was refinanced with borrowings from the credit facilities and/or a portion of the net proceeds from the issuance of the 2013 notes. Windstream also assumed $400.0 million in outstanding notes issued by subsidiaries of Valor ("Valor Notes"), which is equally and ratably secured with the debt under the new credit facility. Windstream is required to offer to repurchase any of the outstanding Valor Notes that may be tendered as a result of the merger, which constitutes a change of control under the indenture governing the Valor Notes, and will borrow additional amounts under the new credit facilities to the extent necessary to fund the purchase of any Valor Notes that are tendered.
Certain of the Company's debt agreements contain various covenants and restrictions specific to the subsidiary that is the legal counterparty to the agreement. As of June 30, 2006, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants and restrictions.
At June 30, 2006, current maturities of long-term debt were $22.1 million. The Company expects to fund the payment of this obligation through operating cash flows.
 
Critical Accounting Policies
The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company identified the critical accounting policies which affect its more significant estimates and assumptions used in preparing its consolidated financial statements. These critical accounting policies include evaluating the collectibility of trade receivables, accounting for pension and other postretirement benefits, calculating depreciation and amortization expense, determining the fair values of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and accounting for current and deferred income taxes. There were no material changes to the Company's critical accounting policies during the six month period ended June 30, 2006.
Legal Proceedings
The Company is party to various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the ultimate resolution of these various proceedings cannot be determined at this time, management of the Company does not believe that such proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the future results of operations or financial condition of the Company. In addition, management of the Company is currently not aware of any environmental matters that, individually or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109", which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." This Interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This Interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. This Interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company is currently evaluating the effects, if any, that this Interpretation may have on its consolidated financial statements.


