FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20060228062215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 .
Entry into Material Definitive Agreement
The company hereby incorporates by reference into this Form 8-K, its Statement on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2005, with respect to the company's proposed transaction with ALLTEL Holding Corp., a newly formed, wholly owned subsidiary of Alltel Corporation.
Item 2.02 .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 28, 2006, VALOR Communications Group, Inc. issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2005 operating results.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 7.01 .
Regulation FD Disclosure
A copy of the press release relating to the announcement is furnished by attachment hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
NOT FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
VALOR Communications Group, Inc. (NYSE:VCG) today reported fourth quarter and fiscal year 2005 consolidated financial and operating results and will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. (EST) to discuss these results and its business.
IRVING, Texas, Feb. 28, 2006 
"I am pleased to report pro forma cash available to pay dividends of $134 million, which exceeded our 2005 pro forma guidance of $128-133 million," commented Jack Mueller, VALOR Communications Group, Inc. president and chief executive officer. "Capital expenditures of $57 million came in favorable to our guidance of approximately $59 million, and our pro forma payout ratio was 74.5% for 2005. We more than doubled our DSL subscribers during 2005, exceeding our objectives for both DSL growth and availability. Our DSL and long distance penetration rates were approximately 10% and 45%, respectively, at year-end."
Net income was $16.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2005, resulting in quarterly EPS (earnings per share) of $0.24 per share. Excluding $3.3 million of merger-related expenses and the related tax effect incurred in the fourth quarter of 2005, net income was $18.8 million. For full year 2005, net income was $35.3 million, resulting in annual EPS of $0.42 per share. Excluding merger-related expenses of $3.3 million, and the related tax effect, net income was $37.7 million for the full year.
1
 
For full year 2005, VALOR reported revenue of $506 million, essentially flat compared to 2004, despite access line losses of 4%. Adjusted EBITDA of $274 million was also flat in 2005 compared to the prior year due to improved operating efficiencies, lower headcount and higher ARPU.
For 2005, revenue from data services, long distance and other increased 31.6%, 7.2% and 14.0%, respectively, due to increases in average subscribers and sales of equipment and services provided to wholesale carriers. Revenue from local service, access and Universal Service Fund decreased 4.3%, 4.9% and 3.8%, respectively, for 2005 due primarily to lower access line count. For the fourth quarter of 2005, revenues of $126 million were down 1.6% compared to $128 million in the prior year.
Total connections increased 1.4% in 2005 over the prior year. The majority of VALOR's markets, or approximately 88% of its total access lines, do not have active cable-telephony competition. In these markets, VALOR's access line loss was approximately 1.5% for the full year.
Merger with Alltel Wireline
"We continue to work with the wireline management team of Alltel to develop and implement integration plans to ensure an efficient transition. We anticipate a smooth transition of back office systems due to our selection of Alltel's billing platform several years ago," commented Jack Mueller. "In addition, we have received early termination of the waiting period related to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and have received transfer of control approval from the Federal Communications Commission. We have filed in all states where filing is required and continue to anticipate a mid-year closing of the transaction."
Other
VALOR recorded additional fourth quarter expenses of approximately $300,000 related to Hurricane Rita cleanup. In addition, VALOR recorded approximately $1.1 million in impairment charges for goodwill related to a small wireless broadband service provider purchased to expand our data product line. The company also recorded $2.3 million of non-cash stock based compensation expense.
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2005 were $64.2 million. VALOR's net operating loss (NOL) position increased $13 million during 2005 to approximately $320 million.
VALOR's reportable distributions during calendar year 2005 have been classified as 100% Non-dividend Distribution (return of capital). The Company recommends shareholders consult their tax advisors to determine what impact, if any, the above information may have on their tax situations.
Conference Call Information
As previously announced, the company will host a conference call and simultaneous Webcast to discuss fourth quarter and fiscal year 2005 results at 8:30 a.m. (EST) on Feb. 28, 2006. During the conference call, VALOR may discuss and answer one or more questions concerning its business and financial matters as well as trends that affect the company. VALOR's responses to these questions, as well as other matters discussed during the conference call, may contain information that has not been previously disclosed.
Simultaneously with the conference call, an audio webcast of the call will be available via a link on our website, , "Investor Relations," or at . To
www.valortelecom.com
www.earnings.com
2
 
access the call, dial 1-800-257-3401, or outside the United States, dial 1-303-262-2051. A pass code is not required. A replay of the call will be available beginning at approximately 10:30 a.m. (EST), Feb. 28, 2006, through Mar. 7, 2006, at the above websites or by calling 1-800-405-2236 or, outside the United States, 1-303-590-3000. The pass code for the replay is 11052022#.
Non-GAAP Measures
VALOR uses certain non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating its performance and liquidity. These include adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), Adjusted EBITDA margin and "Cash Available to Pay Dividends." These non-GAAP financial measures are by definition not measures of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles and are not alternatives to operating income or net income reflected in the statement of operations or to cash flow as reflected in the statement of cash flows and are not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund all cash flow needs.
VALOR presents Adjusted EBITDA because covenants in its credit facility contain ratios based on this measure. A reconciliation of the differences between these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are included in the schedules that follow.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined in the credit facility as: (1) consolidated adjusted net income, as defined therein; plus (2) the following items, to the extent deducted from consolidated adjusted net income: (a) interest expense; (b) provision for income taxes; (c) depreciation and amortization; (d) certain expenses related to VALOR's initial public offering of common stock, its recent debt recapitalization and the other transactions described in "Use of Proceeds" in its registration statement for its initial public offering of common stock completed February 9, 2005; (e) other nonrecurring or unusual costs or losses incurred after the closing date of its new credit facility, to the extent not exceeding $10.0 million; (f) unrealized losses on financial derivatives recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 133; (g) losses on sales of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; and (h) all other non-cash charges that represent an accrual for which no cash is expected to be paid in a future period; minus (3) the following items, to the extent any of them increases consolidated adjusted net income; (v) income tax credits; (w) interest and dividend income (other than in respect of Rural Telephone Finance Cooperative patronage distribution); (x) gains on asset disposals not in the ordinary course of business; (y) unrealized gains on financial derivatives recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 133; and (z) all other non-cash income.
Adjusted EBITDA margin is equal to adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Adjusted EBITDA margin measures the proportion of Adjusted EBITDA remaining after deducting operating expenses.
Cash Available to Pay Dividends is defined herein as Adjusted EBITDA less the sum of (i) any item excluded from the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA that has been or will be settled in cash, (ii) cash interest expense, (iii) capital expenditures, (iv) required cash pension contributions in excess of expense, and (v) cash income taxes.
VALOR considers Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and Cash Available to Pay Dividends (CAPD) as important indicators to investors in the company's common stock because CAPD provides information related to the company's ability to provide cash flows to service debt, fund capital expenditures and pay dividends. If VALOR's Adjusted EBITDA were to decline below certain levels, covenants in its credit facility that are based on Adjusted EBITDA, including its interest coverage ratio and total leverage ratio covenants, may be violated and could cause, among other things, a default or mandatory prepayment under its credit facility, or result in its inability to pay dividends. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and CAPD are not measures in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered a substitute for operating income, net income or any other measure of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and CAPD should not be used as a substitute for VALOR's various cash flow measures (e.g., operating, investing and financing cash flows). The non-GAAP financial measures used by VALOR may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.
While VALOR utilizes these non-GAAP financial measures in managing and analyzing its business and financial condition and believes these measures are useful to management and to investors for the reasons described above, these non-GAAP financial measures have certain shortcomings. In particular, Adjusted EBITDA does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures, since items such as debt repayments and interest payments are not deducted from such measure. Management compensates for the shortcomings of these measures by utilizing them in conjunction with their comparable GAAP financial measures. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and footnotes contained in documents filed periodically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
About VALOR Communications Group
VALOR Communications Group (NYSE:VCG) is one of the largest providers of telecommunications services in rural communities in the southwestern United States. The company, through its subsidiary VALOR Telecom, offers to residential, business and government customers a wide range of telecommunications services, including: local exchange telephone services, which covers basic dial-tone service as well as enhanced services, such as caller identification,
3
 
voicemail and call waiting; long distance services; and data services, such as providing digital subscriber lines. VALOR Communications Group is headquartered in Irving, Texas. For more information, visit . Information contained on our website does not comprise a part of this press release.
www.valortelecom.com
VALOR Communications Group ("VALOR") is a holding company and has no direct operations. VALOR was formed for the sole purpose of reorganizing the company's corporate structure and consummation of our initial public offering in February 2005. VALOR's principal assets are the direct and indirect equity interests in its subsidiaries. As a result, the historical consolidated financial results prior to the offering in February 2005 only reflect the operations of VALOR Telecommunications, LLC.
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain matters discussed in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "estimates," "projects, " "outlook" and other similar expressions, which are predictions of or indicate future events and trends, typically identify forward-looking statements. Statements in this press release regarding VALOR Communications Group's business that are not historical facts, including our intention to pay quarterly dividends, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or the timing of events to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you that the expectations discussed in these forward-looking statements will be attained. Some of the factors that could cause actual results or the timing of certain events to differ from those described in these forward-looking statements include, without limitation: our leverage and debt service obligations; the terms of our credit facility and our rights and obligations thereunder; any adverse changes in government regulation; the risk that we may not be able to retain existing customers or obtain new customers; the risk of increased competition in the markets we serve; our financial position, results of operations and availability of capital; risks associated with the impending merger with Alltel Wireline, including but not limited to, the risk that the anticipated benefits from the merger may not be realized, integration-related risks and challenges that could negatively impact operations and financial results, the risk that regulatory agencies could delay or impose conditions on approval of the merger, which may diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger and other risks detailed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, the risks described in our proxy statement/prospectus-information statement dated February 28, 2006, relating to our merger with Alltel Wireline and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 28, 2006 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, the occurrence of future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
Supplemental Schedules
4
 
Schedule A
VALOR Communications Group, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Operations (Dollars, except per share amounts, in thousands) (Unaudited)
 
 
Schedule B
VALOR Communications Group, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited)
 
Schedule C
VALOR Communications Group, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited)
 
Schedule D
VALOR Communications Group, Inc. Non-GAAP Measures  Adjusted EBITDA Calculation (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited)
 
Schedule E
VALOR Communications Group, Inc. Non-GAAP Measures  Cash Available to Pay Dividends Reconciliation (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited)
 
Schedule F
Historical Operating Statistics
 


