FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20061113130023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
     On November 7, 2006, the Board of Directors of Windstream Corporation ("Windstream" or the "Company"), upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, adopted and approved (i) an Employment Agreement, dated November 7, 2006 between Windstream and Jeffery R. Gardner, the President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of Windstream, (ii) Change-in-Control Agreements, dated November 7, 2006, between Windstream and each of Mr. Gardner, Keith D. Paglusch, Chief Operating Officer, Brent K. Whittington, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and John P. Fletcher, Executive Vice President and General Counsel, and (iii) the proposed compensation for Francis X. Frantz, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Windstream, to commence January 1, 2007. On November 7, 2006, the Board of Directors of Windstream, upon the recommendation of the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors, also elected Samuel E. Beall, III to the Board of Directors, effective immediately.
     
Employment Agreement
     The Employment Agreement with Mr. Gardner provides that he will be employed by Windstream as its President and Chief Executive Officer for the period beginning on November 7, 2006 and ending on December 31, 2009 (the "Employment Period"). The Employment Period automatically extends for successive one year periods on December 31, 2009 and on each December 31 thereafter until either party provides 90 days' notice that the period will not be so extended.
     During the Employment Period, Mr. Gardner's annual base salary will be not less than $700,000 and his target annual bonus opportunity will not be less than 100% of his base salary. He will be eligible to participate in equity incentive, employee benefits and perquisite plans and programs that are no less favorable than those provided to other senior executives of Windstream.
     If, during the Employment Period, Windstream or its affiliates terminate Mr. Gardner's employment without "cause" (as defined in the agreement) or Mr. Gardner terminates his employment with Windstream or its affiliates for "good reason" (as defined in the agreement), then Windstream will pay to Mr. Gardner, in a lump sum, the following amounts: (i) his annual base salary through the date of termination and any other vested benefits, in each case to the extent not previously paid; (ii) a pro-rated bonus based on the higher of his target annual bonus for the year of termination or the annual bonus earned for the immediately preceding year; and (iii) two times his annual base salary. If Mr. Gardner's employment terminates for any other reason, then the agreement will terminate without further obligation to Mr. Gardner other than the obligation to pay his annual base salary through the date of termination and any other vested benefits.
     Upon termination of employment, Mr. Gardner is prohibited from soliciting employees or customers of or competing against Windstream for a one-year period and is subject to confidentiality and non-disparagement restrictions. Moreover, he is required to sign a release of all claims against Windstream prior to receiving severance benefits under the agreement.
     
Change-In-Control Agreements
     The Change-In-Control Agreements provide that a covered executive would be entitled to certain severance benefits if, during the two-year period following a "change in control" (as defined in the agreements), Windstream or its affiliates terminate the executive's employment without "cause" (as defined in the agreements) or the executive terminates his employment with Windstream or its affiliates for "good reason" (as defined in the agreements). Specifically, the covered executive would be entitled to receive, in a lump sum, the following amounts: (i) the executive's base salary through the date of termination, the bonus earned for the prior year and any accrued vacation pay, in each case to the extent not previously paid, (ii) a pro-rated target bonus for the year of termination, (iii) three times the sum of the executive's base salary and target bonus (in each case, as in effect on the date of the change in control, or if higher, on the date of termination), (iv) a cash equivalent for three years of health care premiums, and (v) outplacement services (with a value of no more than $50,000).
     In the event any payments or benefits provided to a covered executive, whether under the agreement or otherwise, would be subject to an excise tax on excess parachute payments under Section 4999 of the Internal
Table of Contents
Revenue Code, Windstream will gross-up the executive's compensation to fully offset such excise taxes. If, however, the aggregate parachute payments do not exceed 110% of the maximum total payments that could be made without triggering the excise tax, then the parachute payments would be automatically reduced to such maximum amount and no gross-up payment would be made.
     Terminated executives are prohibited from soliciting employees or customers of or competing against Windstream or the acquiring or successor entity for a one-year period and are subject to a confidentiality restriction. Moreover, a terminated executive is required to sign a release of all claims against Windstream and the acquiring or successor entity prior to receiving severance benefits under the agreement.
     
Non-Executive Chairman Compensation
     At its November 7 meeting, the Board of Directors approved the following compensation arrangements for Francis X. Frantz, Chairman, commencing January 1, 2007. Mr. Frantz will receive compensation to be received by all other non-employee directors plus an annual supplemental cash retainer in the amount of $25,000.
     Windstream has also entered into a letter agreement, dated November 7, 2006, with Mr. Frantz regarding post-retirement health care benefits. Pursuant to the letter, commencing no later than May 1, 2008 (the date on which Mr. Frantz's access to continuation coverage as required under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 ("COBRA") is expected to expire), the Company has agreed to offer Mr. Frantz a 30-day period to enroll in coverage under Windstream's retiree medical insurance contract with United Healthcare ("SMRP II"). Such coverage will apply to Mr. Frantz and his "eligible dependents" (as defined in the letter). If Mr. Frantz enrolls in the SMRP II, then coverage under the SMRP II shall begin immediately following the expiration of the applicable COBRA continuation period and shall continue for Mr. Frantz's lifetime. At any time after Mr. Frantz's enrollment in SMRP II, Mr. Frantz may opt out of, and thereafter opt back in to, the coverage specified under the letter without losing any future rights or benefits under the letter. The right to opt out and thereafter opt back in to coverage is limited to two occasions during Mr. Frantz's lifetime. Following Mr. Frantz's death, coverage under the SMRP II shall continue for each eligible dependent until the date that such dependent is no longer considered an eligible dependent. If at any time after Mr. Frantz's initial enrollment in the SMRP II, SMRP II coverage becomes unavailable to Windstream or impracticable for Windstream to procure, Windstream has agreed to use reasonable best efforts to provide Mr. Frantz and his eligible dependents access to medical benefits under another insurance contract that are as comparable to SMRP II as practicable.
     Windstream's obligation to provide access to medical coverage will apply only if Mr. Frantz or his eligible dependents reimburse Windstream for the Required Premium (as defined below) each month commencing on or after the expiration of the applicable COBRA continuation period. The Required Premiums are the premiums that Mr. Frantz would be required to pay for medical coverage for himself and his eligible dependents as a retired employee under Windstream's group health insurance plan. If, however, Windstream ceases to offer medical coverage to retirees under its group health insurance plan, the Required Premium shall be based on the premium rate in effect for retiree medical coverage under any plan or program designated by Windstream (whether or not sponsored by Windstream) that the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Windstream determines provides substantially similar retiree medical coverage as the former group health insurance plan.
     
Election of Mr. Beall
     On November 7, 2006, the Board of Directors of Windstream elected Samuel E. Beall, III to the Board of Directors, effective immediately. The Board of Directors has affirmatively determined that Mr. Beall qualifies as an "independent" director for the purposes of the corporate governance rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
     Beall, age 56, has served as chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Ruby Tuesday, Inc., since May 1995 and also as President of Ruby Tuesday, Inc., since July 2004. Mr. Beall served as president and chief executive officer of Ruby Tuesday, Inc., from June 1992 to May 1995 and president and chief operating officer of Ruby Tuesday, Inc., from September 1986 to June 1992.
     Mr. Beall is also a board member of several private companies, including Pilot Corporation, Pilot Travel Centers, LLC, SSC Service Solutions Co., and Blackberry Hotel Co.
Table of Contents
     The above descriptions of the Employment Agreement, Change-In-Control Agreements and the letter agreement are qualified in their entirety by the full text of such agreements which are attached as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, and 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
November 13, 2006
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
     This Employment Agreement (this "Agreement") is made, entered into, and is effective as of November 7, 2006 (the "Effective Date"), by and between Windstream Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Windstream"), and Jeffery R. Gardner (the "Executive").
     The Executive is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Windstream. Windstream is desirous of assuring the continued employment of the Executive and wishes to establish certain terms and conditions of employment of the Executive, to provide certain benefits to the Executive in the case of his termination of employment, and to obtain certain agreements from the Executive for the benefit of Windstream.
     Windstream and the Executive agree as follows:
Section 1. .
Definitions
     For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated below:
     1.1 "Annual Incentive Benefit" shall mean the higher of the Annual Incentive Target or the Prior Annual Incentive Amount.
     1.2 "Annual Incentive Plan" shall mean the Windstream Corporation Performance Incentive Compensation Plan, the Windstream Corporation Executive Incentive Compensation Plan and any one or more other formalized plans, if any, in which the Executive is eligible to participate providing incentive compensation payable in cash to eligible participants determined on the basis of a measuring period not in excess of 12 calendar months, but shall expressly exclude, without limitation, the Windstream Management Deferred Compensation Plan, the Windstream Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, the Windstream Benefit Restoration Plan, any plan qualified or intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and any plan supplementary thereto, the Windstream 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, and any other plan or arrangement under which stock, stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock or similar options, stock, or rights are issued, any amendment or restatement of, or successor plan to, any of the foregoing plans in effect from time to time, and any executive fringe benefits.
     1.3 "Annual Incentive Target" shall mean the amount of cash compensation that would be payable to the Executive under the Annual Incentive Plan for the measuring period during which the Termination Date occurs, computed assuming that the level of performance with respect to a performance goal identified in accordance with the terms of the Annual Incentive Plan as the "target" level of performance has been achieved. Where no level of performance has been specifically identified as the "target" level, the "target" level shall be (i) the only level if one level is identified, (ii) the higher of two levels if two levels are identified, and (iii) the highest level if three or more levels are identified. Where the amount of compensation depends on the achievement of multiple performance goals, the achievement of each target level of performance with respect to each goal shall be assumed.
 
     1.4 "Base Salary" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 5.1, except that where the Base Salary of the Executive has, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.1, been reduced, Base Salary shall mean the Base Salary without giving effect to the reduction.
     1.5 "Beneficiary" shall mean the person so designated by the Executive in a written notice to Windstream prior to his death, and in the absence of a written beneficiary designation, the Executive's Beneficiary shall be his surviving Spouse, or if he has no surviving Spouse, his estate, except (in each case) where otherwise required by law or the terms of an applicable compensation arrangement or employee benefit plan.
     1.6 "Board" (or "Windstream's Board") shall mean the Board of Directors of Windstream or a duly authorized committee of the Board, including, without limitation, the Compensation Committee of the Board.
     1.7 "Cause" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 7.3.
     1.8 "Compensation Committee" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board or, with respect to any period during which there is no Compensation Committee of the Board, the Board.
     1.9 "Disability" shall mean the incapacity of the Executive, due to injury, illness, disease, or bodily or mental infirmity, to engage in the performance of his usual duties as contemplated by Section 3 (Position and Responsibilities), except for an incapacity of the Executive for a period of 60 calendar days or less in the aggregate during any period of 12 consecutive calendar months in the absence of a reasonable expectation that the Executive's incapacity will exist for more than 60 calendar days. "Disability" shall be determined by the Board in the good faith exercise of its discretion upon receipt of and in reliance on competent medical advice from one or more individuals who are qualified to give professional medical advice on the matters that are relevant to the Executive's condition selected by the Board.
     1.10 "Good Reason" shall mean the occurrence on or after the Effective Date and no more than 180 calendar days prior to the date that notice of termination is given by the Executive in accordance with Section 7.5 (Termination by Windstream Other Than for Cause or by Executive for Good Reason), without the Executive's express written consent, of any one or more of the following:
          (i) Any action of Windstream that results in a material adverse change in the Executive's position (including status, offices, title, and reporting requirements), authorities, duties, or other responsibilities, other than an insubstantial and inadvertent action that is remedied by Windstream promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive;
          (ii) A material reduction by Windstream in the Executive's compensation, as contemplated by Section 5;
          (iii) The failure of the Board to nominate the Executive for election or re-election to the Board; and
 
          (iv) A material breach by Windstream of any provision of this Agreement that is not remedied by Windstream promptly after receipt of notice thereof given to Windstream by the Executive.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall any of the following constitute "Good Reason":
          (i) A reduction in any component of the Executive's compensation if coincident with the reduction in that component of the Executive's compensation one or more other components of the Executive's compensation is or are increased or a substitute or alternative is provided so that the Executive's overall compensation is not materially reduced;
          (ii) The Executive does not earn cash bonuses or benefit from equity incentives awarded to the Executive because one or more performance goals or targets (including appreciation in value related to equity awards) was or were not achieved; and
          (iii) The suspension of the Executive for the period during which the Board is making a determination whether to terminate the Executive for Cause in accordance with Section 7.3 (Termination for Cause).
     1.11 "Non-Interference/Assistance Period" shall mean the period commencing with the Termination Date and ending on the first anniversary of the Termination Date.
     1.12 "Notice of Termination" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 12.1.
     1.13 "Ordinary Termination Benefits" shall mean (i) the Executive's Base Salary earned but not paid through the Termination Date and (ii) Other Vested Benefits.
     1.14 "Other Vested Benefits" shall mean all compensation and benefits to which the Executive has a vested right on the Termination Date, including but not limited to any amount payable to the Executive under the Annual Incentive Plan's terms with respect to the measuring period ending immediately prior to the measuring period during which the Termination Date occurs, and any other benefits payable under this Agreement, but expressly excluding Base Salary or Severance Benefits.
     1.15 "Prior Annual Incentive Amount" shall mean the amount of cash compensation that was paid or payable to the Executive under the Annual Incentive Plan for the measuring period ending immediately prior to the measuring period during which the Termination Date occurs.
     1.16 "Prorated Annual Incentive Benefit" shall mean the Annual Incentive Benefit multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of calendar months (counting a partial calendar month as a full month) that have elapsed in the measuring period during which the Termination Date occurs prior to the Termination Date, and the denominator of which is twelve (12); reduced by the amount, if any, paid or payable to the Executive under the Annual Incentive Plan's terms with respect to the measuring period during which the Termination Date occurs.
 
     1.17 "Protective Covenants" shall mean the Executive's obligations under Section 8 of this Agreement.
     1.18 "Section 409A" shall mean Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any proposed, temporary or final regulations, or any other guidance, promulgated with respect to such Section 409A by the U.S. Department of Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service.
     1.19 "Severance Benefits" shall mean a lump sum payment, in cash, equal to the sum of (i) the Executive's annual Base Salary multiplied by two; and (ii) the Prorated Annual Incentive Benefit; and reduced by any cash severance benefit otherwise paid or payable to the Executive under any severance plan or other severance arrangement of the Windstream Group.
     1.20 "Spouse" shall mean the person (if any) to whom the Executive is legally married at the relevant time, or if the Executive is deceased, the person (if any) to whom the Executive was legally married at the time of the Executive's death.
     1.21 "Term" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 2.
     1.22 "Termination Date" shall mean the effective date of the termination of the Executive's employment with the Windstream Group during the Term.
     1.23 "Windstream Group" shall mean, collectively, Windstream and all other entities that are direct or indirect subsidiaries or affiliates of Windstream from time to time, and a "member" of the Windstream Group shall mean Windstream or any of such entities.
Section 2. .
Term of Agreement
          (A) Windstream shall employ the Executive, and may cause any other member of the Windstream Group to employ the Executive, and the Executive shall continue his employment in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein, for the "Term" of this Agreement.
          (B) The "Term" shall mean the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the earlier of: (i) the Termination Date; or (ii) December 31, 2009. To the extent not previously terminated, the Term shall be automatically renewed for successive one-year periods upon the terms and conditions set forth herein, commencing on December 31, 2009, and on each December 31 thereafter, unless either party gives the other party written notice at least 90 calendar days prior to the end of such initial or extended Term that the Term shall not be so extended. For purposes of this Agreement, any reference to the "Term" of this Agreement shall include the original term and any extension thereof.
Section 3. .
Position and Responsibilities
     During the Term, the Executive shall serve as the Chief Executive Officer and President of Windstream, with such duties and responsibilities as are commensurate with such positions, reporting directly to the Board. In addition, the Company shall cause the Executive to serve as a member of the Board, and during the Term, the Executive shall remain on the Board, subject to
 
Section 8.6. The Executive agrees to serve, without additional compensation, as an officer and director for each member of the Windstream Group (other than Windstream), as determined by Windstream, provided, that such service does not materially interfere with the Executive's performance of his duties and responsibilities as a member of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and President of Windstream.
Section 4. .
Standard of Care
     During the Term, the Executive shall devote substantially his full business time, attention, and energies to the business of the Windstream Group. During the Term, it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive, to serve as a director of or officer of or otherwise participate in other businesses and civic, charitable, and educational organizations so long as that service or participation is not injurious to the Windstream Group, does not violate any provision of Section 8 (Protective Covenants By the Executive), and does not interfere with the performance of his duties for the Windstream Group. During the Term, the Executive shall:
     (i) Devote his best efforts to the fulfillment of his employment obligations hereunder;
     (ii) Exercise the highest degree of care and loyalty to the Windstream Group and the highest standards of conduct in the performance of his duties;
     (iii) Comply with the corporate governance board guidelines and code of ethics of each member of the Windstream Group; and
     (iv) Do nothing that intentionally harms, in any way, the business or reputation of the Windstream Group.
Section 5. .
Compensation
     As remuneration for all services to be rendered to the Windstream Group by the Executive during the Term and except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Windstream shall pay or provide, or cause another member of the Windstream Group to pay or provide, to the Executive the following:
     5.1 .
Base Salary
     During the Term, the Executive shall receive a base salary ("Base Salary") at a rate of no less than $700,000 per annum. During the Term, the Executive's Base Salary shall be reviewed annually by the Board and may be increased by the Board in its sole and absolute discretion. If so increased, the Base Salary shall be increased for all purposes of this Agreement. Once so increased, the Base Salary shall not be decreased during the Term. The Executive's Base Salary shall be paid to the Executive in installments throughout the year, consistent with the normal payroll practices of Windstream.
 
     5.2 .
Annual Bonus
     For each fiscal year during the Term, the Executive shall be eligible to participate in the Annual Incentive Plan under terms and conditions no less favorable than other senior executives of Windstream; provided, however, that the Executive's "target" annual bonus opportunity shall not be less than 100% of his Base Salary (or such higher percentage as determined by the Board from time to time). Nothing contained in this Section 5.2 will guarantee the Executive any specific amount of incentive compensation, or prevent the Board from establishing performance goals and compensation targets applicable only to the Executive.
     5.3 .
Other Benefits
     During the Term, the Executive shall be eligible to participate in all equity incentive, employee benefits and perquisite plans, programs and arrangements that are no less favorable to the Executive than the plans, programs and arrangements provided to other senior executives of Windstream from time to time.
Section 6. .
Expense Reimbursement
     Windstream shall pay or reimburse the Executive for ordinary and necessary employment-related expenses of the Executive on a basis that is no less favorable to the Executive than the basis on which payment or reimbursement of employment-related expenses is made from time to time to other senior executives of Windstream.
Section 7. .
Employment Termination
     7.1 .
Termination Due to Death
          (A) In the event of the death of the Executive during the Term, Windstream shall pay or provide to the Executive's Beneficiary, in full satisfaction of all amounts due, the Ordinary Termination Benefits.
          (B) The Ordinary Termination Benefits shall be paid in a single cash lump sum within 10 business days after the Termination Date, except as otherwise required by law, by the terms of any applicable compensation arrangement or employee benefit plan or by the terms of this Agreement.
     7.2 .
Termination Due to Disability
          (A) In the event of the Executive's Disability during the Term, Windstream's Board may terminate or cause to be terminated the Executive's employment under this Agreement by written notice to the Executive of the termination of the Executive's employment for Disability in accordance with this Section 7.2 given at least 10 business days prior to the effective date of such termination. A termination for Disability shall become effective upon the end of the 10-business-day notice period. Upon the effective date of the Executive's termination of employment on account of Disability, Windstream shall pay or provide to the Executive, in full satisfaction of all amounts due, the Ordinary Termination Benefits.
 
          (B) The Ordinary Termination Benefits shall be paid in a single cash lump sum within 10 business days after the Termination Date, except as otherwise required by law, by the terms of any applicable compensation arrangement or employee benefit plan or by the terms of this Agreement.
     7.3 .
Termination for Cause
          (A) Windstream's Board may terminate or cause to be terminated the Executive's employment under this Agreement for "Cause" in accordance with this Section 7.3 at any time during the Term. Upon a termination for Cause under this Section 7.3 during the Term, Windstream shall pay or provide to the Executive, in full satisfaction of all amounts due, the Ordinary Termination Benefits.
          (B) The Ordinary Termination Benefits shall be paid in a single lump sum within 10 business days after the Termination Date, except as otherwise required by law, by the terms of any applicable compensation arrangement or employee benefit plan or by the terms of this Agreement.
          (C) "Cause" shall mean (i) the willful failure by the Executive substantially to perform the Executive's duties with the Windstream Group, other than any failure resulting from the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness or any actual or anticipated failure after the issuance of a Notice of Termination for Good Reason by the Executive in accordance with Section 7.5, that continues for at least 30 calendar days after the Board delivers to the Executive a written demand for performance that identifies specifically and in detail the manner in which the Board believes that the Executive willfully has failed substantially to perform the Executive's duties; (ii) a conviction, guilty plea or plea of of the Executive for any felony; (iii) gross negligence or willful misconduct by the Executive that is intended to or does result in the Executive's substantial personal enrichment or a material detrimental effect on the reputation or business of any member of the Windstream Group; (iv) a material violation by the Executive of the corporate governance board guidelines and code of ethics of any member of the Windstream Group; (v) a material violation by the Executive of the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or other federal or state securities law, rule or regulation; (vi) the repeated use of alcohol by the Executive that materially interferes with the Executive's duties, the use of illegal drugs by the Executive, or a violation by the Executive of the drug and/or alcohol policies of any member of the Windstream Group; or (vii) a material breach by the Executive of any Protective Covenants during the Term. For purposes of this definition, no act, or failure to act, on the Executive's part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive not in good faith and without reasonable belief that the Executive's act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Windstream Group. Whether an act or failure to act by the Executive constitutes "Cause" shall be determined subject to the following requirements:
nolo contendere
               (i) Written notice shall be provided to the Executive not less than 10 business days prior to the effective date of the termination setting forth the intention of Windstream's Board to consider terminating the Executive for Cause, including a statement of the intended effective date of termination and a description of the specific facts believed to constitute Cause;
 
               (ii) None of the acts or omissions of the Executive that the Board believes to constitute Cause shall have occurred more than 365 calendar days before the earliest date on which any member of the Board who is not a party to the act or omission knew or should have known of such act or omission;
               (iii) The Executive shall be offered an opportunity to respond to the statement required by clause (i) above by appearing in person, together with the Executive's legal counsel, before the Board prior to the date of termination;
               (iv) By the affirmative vote of at least 75 percent of the non-employee members of the Board present at the Board meeting at which the determination is made, the Board shall determine that the specified facts constituted Cause and that the Executive's employment should accordingly be terminated for Cause; and
               (v) Windstream shall provide the Executive a copy of the Board's written determination setting forth with specificity the basis of the termination for Cause and stating the effective date of termination.
     Any purported termination for Cause that does not satisfy each substantive and procedural requirement of this Section 7.3(C) shall be treated for all purposes under this Agreement as a termination of the Executive's employment under Section 7.5 (Termination by Windstream Other Than for Cause or by Executive for Good Reason).
          (D) By determination of the Board, Windstream (and any other member of the Windstream Group then employing the Executive) may, upon written notice to the Executive, suspend the Executive from his duties for a period of up to 30 calendar days with full pay and benefits hereunder during the period of time during which the Board is making a determination under Section 7.3(C) whether to terminate the Executive's employment for Cause.
     7.4 .
Voluntary Termination by the Executive Other Than for Good Reason
          (A) The Executive may terminate his employment under this Agreement other than for Good Reason in accordance with this Section 7.4 at any time during the Term by giving the Board at least 30 calendar days' prior written notice of termination in accordance with this Section 7.4. The termination automatically shall become effective upon the expiration of the notice period. The Executive's right to terminate his employment under this Section 7.4 shall not be affected by the Executive's disability or incapacity.
          (B) Upon a termination other than for Good Reason under this Section 7.4 during the Term, Windstream shall pay or provide to the Executive, in full satisfaction of all amounts due, the Ordinary Termination Benefits.
          (C) The Ordinary Termination Benefits shall be paid in a single lump sum within 10 business days after the Termination Date, except as otherwise required by law, by the terms of any applicable compensation arrangement or employee benefit plan or by the terms of this Agreement.
 
     7.5 .
Termination by Windstream Other Than for Cause or by Executive for Good Reason
          (A) Windstream's Board may, in the exercise of its sole and absolute discretion, terminate or cause to be terminated the Executive's employment under this Agreement other than for Cause in accordance with this Section 7.5 at any time during the Term by written notice to the Executive specifying the effective date of termination, which effective date shall not be earlier than the date on which the written notice of termination under this Section 7.5 is given to the Executive. The Executive may terminate his employment under this Agreement for Good Reason in accordance with this Section 7.5 at any time during the Term by giving the Board 30 calendar days' written notice of termination in accordance with this Section 7.5, which must set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances that are claimed to provide a basis for the Good Reason termination. The termination automatically shall become effective upon the expiration of the notice period. The Executive's right to terminate his employment for Good Reason under this Section 7.5 shall not be affected by the Executive's disability or incapacity. The Executive's continued employment under this Agreement shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any act or failure to act constituting Good Reason.
          (B) Upon a termination by Windstream other than for Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason under this Section 7.5 during the Term, Windstream shall pay or provide or cause another member of the Windstream Group to pay or provide to the Executive in full satisfaction of all amounts due the Ordinary Termination Benefits and the Severance Benefits.
          (C) The Ordinary Termination Benefits and the Severance Benefits shall be paid in a single lump sum within 10 business days after the Termination Date, except as otherwise required by law, by the terms of any applicable compensation arrangement or employee benefit plan or by the terms of this Agreement.
     7.6 .
Release
     Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, Windstream shall not be obligated to pay or provide any Severance Benefits (a) unless the Executive first executes and does not revoke a release substantially in the form attached hereto as ; and (b) to the extent such payment or benefit is subject to the seven-day revocation period prescribed by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, or to any similar revocation period in effect on the date of termination of the Executive's employment, such revocation period has expired.
Exhibit A
Section 8. .
Protective Covenants by the Executive
     8.1 .
Return of Property
     Within five calendar days after the date of the termination of the Executive's employment with the Windstream Group, the Executive shall deliver to Windstream all of the Windstream Group's property in his possession, custody or control, including, without limitation, all keys and credit cards, all computers and fax machines, and all files, documents, data and information in
 
any medium relating in anyway to the Windstream Group or its employees, suppliers, customers or business.
     8.2 .
Non-Disclosure
     The Executive acknowledges that in the course of his employment with the Windstream Group he has had and will have access to confidential information and trade secrets proprietary to the Windstream Group, including, without limitation, information relating to the Windstream Group's products, suppliers, and customers, the sources, nature, processes, costs and prices of the Windstream Group's products, the names, addresses, contact persons, purchasing and sales histories, and preferences of the Windstream Group's suppliers and customers, the Windstream Group's business plans and strategies, and the names and addresses of, amounts of compensation paid to, and the trading and sales performance of the Windstream Group's employees and agents (hereinafter referred to as the "Confidential Information"). The Executive further acknowledges that the Confidential Information is proprietary to the Windstream Group, that the unauthorized disclosure of any of the Confidential Information to any person or entity will result in immediate and irreparable competitive injury to the Windstream Group, and that such injury cannot adequately be remedied by an award of monetary damages. Accordingly, the Executive shall not at any time disclose any Confidential Information to any person or entity who is not properly authorized by the Windstream Group to receive the information without the prior written consent of the Chairman of the Board of Windstream (which consent may be withheld for any reason or no reason) unless and except to the extent that such disclosure is required by any subpoena or other legal process (in which event the Executive will give the Chairman of the Board of Windstream prompt written notice of such subpoena or other legal process in order to permit Windstream to seek appropriate protective orders), and that he shall not use any Confidential Information for his own account without the prior written consent of the Chairman of the Board of Windstream (which consent may be withheld for any reason or no reason).
     8.3 .
Non-Competition
     The Executive shall not during his employment with the Windstream Group and thereafter until the expiration of the Non-Interference/Assistance Period, in any manner, directly or indirectly, through any person, firm or corporation, alone or as a member of a partnership or as an officer, director, shareholder, investor or employee of or in any other corporation or enterprise or otherwise, (i) engage in or be engaged in, or assist any other person, firm, corporation or enterprise in engaging or being engaged in, any business then actively being conducted by the Windstream Group, or any business that the Windstream Group has engaged in during the preceding one-year period, within any state in which any member of the Windstream Group is licensed as an incumbent or competitive local exchange carrier, or (ii) solicit, service, or accept the business of any active customer of the Windstream Group, or any person or entity who is or was at any time during the previous one-year period a customer of the Windstream Group. Nothing in this Section shall prohibit the Executive from being: (x) a shareholder in a mutual fund or a diversified investment company or (y) a passive owner of not more than 5% of the outstanding equity securities of any class of a corporation or other entity which is publicly traded, so long as the Executive has no active participation in the business of such corporation or other entity.
 
     8.4 .
Non-Interference
     The Executive shall not during his employment with the Windstream Group and thereafter until the expiration of the Non-Interference/Assistance Period employ, or assist any person or entity in employing, any employee of any member of the Windstream Group. The Executive shall not during his employment with the Windstream Group and thereafter until the expiration of the Non-Interference/Assistance Period solicit, or assist any person or entity to solicit, any employee of any member of the Windstream Group to leave the Windstream Group's employment or to become employed by any entity that is not a member of the Windstream Group.
     8.5 .
Harmful Statements
     The Executive shall not at any time disseminate any information or make any statements, whether written, oral or otherwise, that are negative, disparaging or critical of Windstream, any member of the Windstream Group, or any of their parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, or their respective officers, directors, employees, shareholders, trustees, administrators, or employee benefit plans, or the representatives, employees, agents, predecessors, successors, heirs, or assigns of any of the foregoing (hereinafter "Windstream Parties"), or their business or operations, or that place any of the Windstream Parties in a bad light, other than any such statement or information that is made or disseminated by the Executive in a good faith belief as to their truth or accuracy and either is required by law or is reasonably necessary to the enforcement by the Executive of any right the Executive has related to his employment with the Windstream Group.
     8.6 .
Resignations
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, upon termination of the Executive's employment with the Windstream Group, and unless otherwise requested by the Board, the Executive shall immediately resign as of the Termination Date from all positions that he holds or has ever held with Windstream and the Windstream Group (and with any other entities with respect to which the Company has requested the Executive to perform services), including, without limitation, the Board and all boards of directors of any member of the Windstream Group. The Executive hereby agrees to execute any and all documentation to effectuate such resignations upon request by Windstream, but he shall be treated for all purposes as having so resigned upon termination of his employment, regardless of when or whether he executes any such documentation.
     8.7 . The Executive shall not at any time commence any action, suit, arbitration or proceeding challenging the validity or enforceability of any provision of this Agreement, or adjudicate the limits or scope of any of its provisions, and the Executive shall not assert, in any action, suit, arbitration or proceeding against the Executive by any Windstream Group member for a breach by the Executive of any of the covenants in this Section 8 that any provision of the covenants is invalid or unenforceable in any respect or to any extent, irrespective of the outcome of any such action, suit or proceeding.
Challenge to Validity
 
     8.8 .
Assistance to Windstream
     During the Non-Interference/Assistance Period, the Executive shall provide such information and assistance as Windstream reasonably requests to assist any Windstream Group member in the mediation, arbitration, or litigation of any, claim, action, suit or proceeding maintained against any Windstream Group member arising from events occurring during the Executive's employment with the Windstream Group, provided that Windstream shall reimburse the Executive for all reasonable and necessary out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Executive in complying with this Section 8.8.
     8.9 .
Revision
     If a court of competent jurisdiction holds that the restrictions stated herein are unreasonable under circumstances then existing, the parties hereto agree that the maximum period, scope or geographical area reasonable under such circumstances shall be substituted for the stated period, scope or area and that the court shall be allowed to revise the restrictions contained herein to cover the maximum period, scope and area permitted by law.
Section 9. .
Successors; Binding Agreement; Assignment
     9.1 .
As to Windstream
     This Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by Windstream and its successors. For purposes of this Section 9.1, the term "successor" shall mean any successor to the business or assets of Windstream by operation of law or otherwise, including, without limitation, any person, corporation, partnership, or entity that, directly or indirectly, whether by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, acquires all or substantially all of the business or assets of Windstream (and each successor to a successor to Windstream). Any such successor shall be deemed to be Windstream for all purposes of this Agreement. In addition to any obligations imposed by law upon any successor, Windstream shall require any successor expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that Windstream would be required to perform it if no succession had taken place. A failure of Windstream to obtain the assumption of and agreement to perform this Agreement prior to the effectiveness of any succession shall be a material breach of this Agreement by Windstream. The provisions of this Section 9.1 shall apply to each successor to any successor of Windstream. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 9.1, Windstream and any other predecessor to a successor shall remain, with each successor, jointly and severally liable for all obligations of Windstream hereunder. Except as provided in this Section 9.1, this Agreement shall not be assigned by Windstream, and any purported assignment of this Agreement by Windstream (except as provided in this Section 9.1) shall be void.
     9.2 .
As to the Executive
     This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive and the Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, and administrators. If the Executive should die while any amounts payable to the Executive hereunder remain outstanding, unless otherwise provided herein, all such amounts shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to the Executive's Beneficiary, determined in
 
accordance with Section 7.1 (Termination Due to Death). This Agreement shall not be assigned by the Executive, and any purported assignment of this Agreement by the Executive shall be void.
Section 10. .
Dispute Resolution and Notices
     10.1 .
Dispute Resolution
          (A) Any dispute or controversy arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be settled by binding arbitration. The arbitration proceeding shall be conducted before a panel of three arbitrators sitting (i) if the Executive is employed by an Windstream Group member at the time of the initiation of the arbitration, in the municipality in which the Executive's principal place of employment is located at the time, and (ii) if the Executive's employment with the Windstream Group has terminated prior to the time of initiation of the arbitration, at a location which is within 50 miles of the location of the Executive's principal place of employment at the time of his termination of employment. The arbitration will be conducted in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect. Judgment maybe entered on any arbitration award in any court having jurisdiction. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Windstream Group shall not be required to seek or participate in arbitration regarding any breach or threatened breach by the Executive of his Protective Covenants, but may pursue its remedies for such breach in a court of competent jurisdiction in a federal district court or state court located in Pulaski County, Arkansas.
          (B) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 10.1(B), and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, all expenses of any arbitration under Section 10.1(A), including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of the legal representative for the Executive, and necessary costs and disbursements incurred as a result of such dispute or proceeding, and any prejudgment interest, calculated at the rate provided by law, shall be borne by Windstream, whether or not the Executive prevails in such arbitration. Windstream shall pay (or reimburse the Executive for) such fees and expenses on a monthly basis within ten calendar days after the Executive's submission of a written request for payment or reimbursement, as applicable, together with reasonable evidence that the fees and expenses were incurred. If the Executive does not prevail (after exhaustion of all available arbitral remedies), and the arbitration panel affirmatively finds that the Executive instituted the proceeding in bad faith or that the Executive's claims were frivolous, no further reimbursement for legal fees and expenses shall be due to the Executive, and the Executive shall repay Windstream for any amounts previously paid by Windstream pursuant to this Section 10.1(B). With respect to any dispute regarding the provisions of Section 8 (Protective Covenants by the Executive), if the Executive does not prevail (after exhaustion of all available arbitral remedies), no further reimbursement for legal fees and expenses shall be due to the Executive, and the Executive shall repay Windstream for any amounts previously paid by Windstream to the Executive hereunder pursuant to this Section 10.1(B) in respect of such dispute. No fees or expenses of the Executive shall be paid by Windstream with respect to any dispute or controversy as to the validity or enforceability of this Agreement, or any provision hereof, or in connection with the litigation of any issue arising under this Agreement in a court of law other than fees and expenses incurred by the Executive in enforcing an arbitration award entered in favor of the Executive in accordance with this Section 10.1(B).
 
     10.2 .
Notices
     Any notices, requests, demands, or other communications provided for by this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the respective addresses set forth below, or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon actual receipt:
     To the Board, the Compensation Committee, and Windstream:
Windstream Corporation 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, Arkansas 72212 Attention: Chairman, Compensation Committee; and General Counsel
     To the Executive:
Jeffery R. Gardner 17 Bretagne Circle Little Rock, AR 72223
Section 11. .
Survival of Obligations and Remedies
     11.1 .
Survival of Obligations
     Upon the expiration of the Term of this Agreement in accordance with Section 2, no provision of this Agreement shall have any further force or effect and all obligations of Windstream and the Executive hereunder shall immediately terminate, except as follows:
     (i) Windstream shall be required to pay or provide to the Executive, or the Beneficiary in the case of the death of the Executive, any benefits to which the Executive became entitled under Section 7 (Employment Terminations), by reason of a qualifying Termination Date (occurring during the Term), in accordance with the terms thereof, including benefits to be paid or provided within a specified number of calendar days following the Termination Date, which remain unpaid or unprovided following the expiration or the Term;
     (ii) The provisions of Section 8 (Protective Covenants By the Executive) shall remain in full force and effect for the applicable periods of time specified in Section 8 with respect to the provisions thereof;
     (iii) The provisions of Section 9 (Successor; Binding Agreement; Assignment) shall remain in full force and effect so long as any rights or obligations of either party continue to exist under the Agreement; and
     (iv) The provisions of Section 10 (Dispute Resolution and Notice), Section 11.2 (Remedies; Protective Covenants), and Section 12 (Miscellaneous) shall remain in full force and
 
effect with respect to rights and obligations existing on the Termination Date or that may arise thereafter in accordance with the foregoing clauses of this Section 11.1.
     11.2 .
Remedies; Protective Covenants
          (A) The Executive's sole and exclusive remedy with respect to any and all claims arising under this Agreement, for termination of the Executive's employment with the Windstream Group during the Term, and for breach hereof by Windstream shall be the right to receive the benefits provided for under Section 7 (Employment Terminations), and such expenses as are provided for under Section 10.1, in each case, to which the Executive is otherwise entitled pursuant to the terms and conditions hereof. Without limiting the foregoing, the Executive's sole and exclusive remedy for the failure of Windstream or the Windstream Group to provide compensation or expense reimbursement to the Executive in an amount or form not in conformity with any one or more of the provisions of Section 5 (Compensation) or Section 6 (Expense Reimbursement) is to seek recovery against Windstream pursuant to Section 10 (Dispute Resolution and Notices) for only such benefits, if any, that are expressly provided for consequent upon the Executive's termination of employment pursuant to the applicable provisions of Section 7 (Employment Terminations). The Executive's employment with the Windstream Group is "at will" and may be terminated by Windstream's Board for any reason in its sole and absolute discretion in accordance with any applicable provision of Section 7 (Employment Terminations) and the payment or provision of such benefits as may be required under this Agreement.
          (B) The Executive acknowledges and agrees that each and every covenant contained in Section 8 (the "Protective Covenants") is reasonable in period, scope and geographical area and is necessary to protect the Windstream Group's legitimate business interests and Confidential Information and that his compliance with each of the Protective Covenants is necessary to protect the Windstream Group from unfair injury. The Executive agrees that he will notify Windstream Group in writing if he has, or reasonably should have, any questions regarding the applicability of the Protective Covenants. The Executive further acknowledges and agrees that a breach of any of the Protective Covenants will result in irreparable and continuing harm and damage to the Windstream Group for which there will be no adequate remedy at law. In the event of a breach or threatened breach of any of the Protective Covenants, each and every member of the Windstream Group shall be entitled to injunctive relief and to such other relief (whether at law or in equity) as a court of competent jurisdiction deems proper in the circumstances, in addition to any other remedy or relief to which any of them may be entitled. The parties agree that the foregoing relief shall not be construed to limit or otherwise restrict the Windstream Group's ability to pursue any other remedy provided by law, including the recovery of any actual, compensatory or punitive damages. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the obligations of each member of the Windstream Group under this Agreement are conditioned upon compliance by the Executive with each of the Protective Covenants, and failure by the Executive to comply with any of the Protective Covenants shall entitle each Windstream Group member to forfeit, terminate payment of, and, to the extent paid, recover immediately from the Executive any Severance Benefits, benefits, amounts, expenses, or costs that may have been paid or would otherwise be owing to or vested in the Executive, under Section 7 (Employment Terminations) of this Agreement. The Executive acknowledges that any forfeiture resulting under the provisions of this Agreement is reasonably related and proportional
 
to the harm that the Windstream Group would sustain if he were to violate any of the Protective Covenants. The Executive acknowledges that the Protective Covenants are a principal inducement for the willingness of Windstream to enter into this Agreement and make the payments and provide the benefits to the Executive under this Agreement and that Windstream and the Executive intend the Protective Covenants to be binding upon and enforceable against the Executive in accordance with their terms, notwithstanding any common or statutory law to the contrary. The Executive agrees that the obligations of Windstream under this Agreement (specifically including, but not limited to, the obligation to provide the Severance Benefits as provided herein) constitute sufficient consideration for the Protective Covenants.
Section 12. .
Miscellaneous
     12.1 .
Termination Procedures
     Any intended termination of the Executive's employment by either party shall be communicated by written Notice of Termination from the party initiating such termination to the other party hereto in accordance with Section 10.2. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" shall mean a written notice that indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, and, if applicable, the notice shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated. Notices under Section 7.3 (Termination for Cause) and Section 7.5 (Termination by Windstream Other Than for Cause or by Executive for Good Reason) shall include the information required thereunder.
     12.2 .
Windstream Representations
     Windstream hereby represents and warrants to the Executive as follows: The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the performance by Windstream of the actions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of Windstream. This Agreement is a legal, valid and legally binding obligation of Windstream enforceable in accordance with its terms. Neither the execution or delivery of this Agreement nor the consummation by Windstream of the actions contemplated hereby (i) will violate any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws (or other charter documents) of Windstream, (ii) will violate or be in conflict with any applicable law or any judgment, decree, injunction or order of any court or governmental agency or authority, or (iii) will violate or conflict with or constitute a default (or an event of which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under or will result in the termination of, accelerate the performance required by, or result in the creation of any lien, security interest, charge or encumbrance upon any of the assets or properties of Windstream under, any term or provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws (or other charter documents) of Windstream or of any contract, commitment, understanding, arrangement, agreement or restriction of any kind or character to which Windstream is a party or by which Windstream or any of its properties or assets may be bound or affected.
     12.3 .
No Duplication
     In no event shall payments in accordance with this Agreement be made in respect of more than one of Sections 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4 and 7.5.
 
     12.4 .
No Mitigation
     The Executive shall not be required to seek other employment or to attempt in any way to reduce any amounts payable to the Executive by Windstream pursuant to this Agreement. Further, the amount of any payment or benefit provided for in this Agreement shall not be reduced by any compensation earned by the Executive as the result of employment by another employer, by retirement benefits, by offset against any amount claimed to be owed by the Executive to the Windstream Group, or otherwise.
     12.5 .
Entire Agreement
     This Agreement supersedes any prior agreements or understandings, oral or written, between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect thereto. No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement.
     12.6 .
Modification
     Except as otherwise provided in Section 12.8, this Agreement shall not be varied, altered, modified, canceled, changed, or in any way amended, or any provision of this Agreement waived, except by mutual agreement of the parties in a written instrument executed by the parties hereto or their legal representatives and in the case of Windstream by an officer specifically designated by the Board. No waiver by a party to this Agreement at any time of any breach by any party to this Agreement of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
     12.7 .
Severability
     In the event that any provision or portion of this Agreement shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall be unaffected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is held unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed so as to be enforced to the maximum extent possible, and if it is determined that it is not possible to reform any such provision of this Agreement, such provision shall be severed from this Agreement and the remainder of this Agreement shall be enforced to the full extent permitted by law.
     12.8 .
Compliance with Section 409A
     To the extent applicable, the parties intend that this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A. This Agreement shall be construed, administered, and governed in a manner consistent with this intent. Any provision that would cause any amount payable or benefit provided under this Agreement to be includable in the gross income of the Executive or his beneficiary (or subject to additional taxes or interest) under Section 409A shall have no force and effect unless and until amended to cause such amount or benefit to not be so includable (which amendment shall be made without the consent of the Executive or his beneficiaries and shall maintain, to the maximum extent practicable, the original intent of the applicable provision
 
without violating the requirements of Section 409A). In particular, to the extent that the Executive has a right to receive a payment or benefit pursuant to this Agreement that is subject to Section 409A, then notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, such payment or benefit will be made or provided, to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, no earlier than (a) 10 calendar days after the Executive's "separation from service" with the Company (determined in accordance with Section 409A); , , that if the Executive is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A) at such time, then any payment or benefit that would otherwise be paid or provided during the first six months following such separation from service shall be accumulated through and paid (together with interest at the applicable federal rate under Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code in effect on the Termination Date) no earlier than the first business day following the six month anniversary of such separation of service; or (b) 10 calendar days after the Executive's death.
provided
however
     12.9 .
Counterparts
     This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which together will constitute one and the same Agreement.
     12.10 .
Withholding
     Any member of the Windstream Group may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, city, or other taxes or payments as may be required pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling or as may be expressly authorized by the Executive to be withheld, deducted or reduced from those amounts.
     12.11 .
Change-in-Control Agreement
     Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Change-in-Control Agreement dated November 7, 2006, by and between the Executive and Windstream regarding a "change in control" of Windstream (the "Change-in-Control Agreement") shall supersede Sections 7.3, 7.4 and 7.5 of this Agreement (including, without limitation, the definitions of "cause" and "good reason" contained therein), and no Severance Benefits shall be payable to the Executive hereunder, in the event that the Executive terminates employment with the Windstream Group on or after a "Change in Control" as defined in the Change-in-Control Agreement, but all other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in force in accordance with their terms following the "Change in Control."
     12.12 .
Third Party Beneficiaries
     This Agreement is entered into for the benefit only of (i) the Executive, (ii) the Executive's Beneficiary, and (iii) Windstream and the other members of the Windstream Group, and their successors, and no other parties shall have any rights hereunder, except as otherwise provided in Section 9 (Successors; Binding Agreement; Assignment).
     12.13 .
Governing Law
     To the extent not preempted by federal law, the validity, interpretation, construction, and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware (without
 
giving effect to any conflicts of law principles of the State of Delaware that would require the application of the laws of another jurisdiction).
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Windstream and the Executive have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
     (this "Waiver and Release") is entered into by and between Jeffery R. Gardner ("Executive") and Windstream Corporation (the "Company") (collectively, the "Parties").
THIS WAIVER AND RELEASE AGREEMENT
     , the Parties have entered into an Employment Agreement dated November 7, 2006 (the "Agreement");
WHEREAS
     , Executive's employment has been or will be terminated on ___in accordance with the Agreement;
WHEREAS
     , Executive is required to sign this Waiver and Release in order to receive the payment of certain severance benefits under the Agreement following termination of employment; and
WHEREAS
     , the Company has agreed to sign this Waiver and Release.
WHEREAS
     , in consideration of the promises and agreements contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound, the Parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
 
 
Mr. Tommy Keet Windstream Corporation 4001 Rodney Parham Drive Little Rock, Arkansas 72212
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have themselves signed, or caused a duly authorized agent thereof to sign, this Waiver and Release on their behalf and thereby acknowledge their intent to be bound by its terms and conditions.

 
EXHIBIT 10.2
     This Change-in-Control Agreement, dated November 7, 2006 ("Agreement"), is made by and between Windstream Corporation, a Delaware corporation (as hereinafter defined, the "Corporation"), and (as hereinafter defined, the "Executive").
                    
                    
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (as hereinafter defined, the "Board") recognizes that the possibility of a Change in Control (as hereinafter defined) of the Corporation exists and that such possibility, and the uncertainty it may cause, may result in the departure or distraction of key management employees of the Corporation or of a Subsidiary to the detriment of the Corporation and its stockholders; and
     WHEREAS, the Executive is a key management employee of the Corporation or of a Subsidiary; and
     WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the Corporation should encourage the continued employment of the Executive by the Corporation or a Subsidiary and the continued dedication of the Executive to his assigned duties without distraction as a result of the circumstances arising from the possibility of a Change in Control;
     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants herein contained, the Corporation and the Executive hereby agree as follows:
     1. . For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated below:
Defined Terms
          (A) "Annual Incentive Plan" shall mean the Windstream Corporation Performance Incentive Compensation Plan, the Windstream Corporation Executive Incentive Compensation Plan and any one or more other formalized plans, if any, in which the Executive is eligible to participate providing incentive compensation payable in cash to eligible participants determined on the basis of a measuring period not in excess of 12 calendar months, but shall expressly exclude, without limitation, the Windstream Management Deferred Compensation Plan, the Windstream Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, the Windstream Benefit Restoration Plan, any plan qualified or intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and any plan supplementary thereto, the Windstream 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, and any other plan or arrangement under which stock, stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock or similar options, stock, or rights are issued, any amendment or restatement of, or successor plan to, any of the foregoing plans in effect from time to time, and any executive fringe benefits.
          (B) "Annual Incentive Target" shall mean with respect to any measuring period, the amount of cash compensation that would be payable to the Executive under the Annual Incentive Plan for such measuring period, computed assuming that the level of performance with respect to a performance goal identified in accordance with the terms of the Annual Incentive Plan as the "target" level of performance has been achieved. Where no level of performance has been specifically identified as the "target" level, the "target" level shall be (i) the only level if one level is identified, (ii) the higher of two levels if two levels are identified, and (iii) the highest level if three or more levels are identified. Where the amount of
 
compensation depends on the achievement of multiple performance goals, the achievement of each target level of performance with respect to each goal shall be assumed.
          (C) "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation, as constituted from time to time.
          (D) "Cause" for termination by the Corporation of the Executive's employment shall mean (i) the willful failure by the Executive substantially to perform the Executive's duties with the Corporation or a Subsidiary, other than any failure resulting from the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness or any actual or anticipated failure after the issuance of a Notice of Termination for Good Reason by the Executive in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 8, that continues for at least 30 calendar days after the Board delivers to the Executive a written demand for performance that identifies specifically and in detail the manner in which the Board believes that the Executive willfully has failed substantially to perform the Executive's duties, (ii) a conviction, guilty plea or plea of of the Executive for any felony, (iii) the willful engaging by the Executive in misconduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Corporation or any Subsidiary, monetarily or otherwise, (iv) a material violation by the Executive of the corporate governance board guidelines and code of ethics of the Corporation or any Subsidiary; (v) a material violation by the Executive of the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or other federal or state securities law, rule or regulation, (vi) the repeated use of alcohol by the Executive that materially interferes with the Executive's duties, the use of illegal drugs by the Executive, or a violation by the Executive of the drug and/or alcohol policies of a the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or (vii) a material breach by the Executive of any of the protective covenants contained in Section 9. For purposes of this definition, no act, or failure to act, on the Executive's part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive not in good faith and without reasonable belief that the Executive's act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
nolo contendere
          (E) A "Change in Control" shall mean, if at any time subsequent to the date of this Agreement any of the following events shall have occurred:
               (i) The acquisition by any individual, entity or "group,'' within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or Section 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (a "Person''), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of voting securities of the Corporation where such acquisition causes any such Person to own fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Voting Securities''); provided, however, that for purposes of this definition, any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of subparagraph (iii) below shall not be deemed to result in a Change in Control;
               (ii) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board'') cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Corporation's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though
 
such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board;
               (iii) The consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of more than fifty percent (50%) of the assets of the Corporation (a "Business Combination''), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Corporation or all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Corporation or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, fifty percent (50%) or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
               (iv) Approval by the stockholders of the Corporation of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation.
          (F) "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
          (G) "Corporation" shall mean Windstream Corporation and any successor to its business or assets, by operation of law or otherwise.
          (H) "Date of Termination" shall have the meaning stated in paragraph (B) of Section 8 hereof.
          (I) "Disability" shall be deemed the reason for the termination by the Corporation of the Executive's employment, if, as a result of the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness, the Executive shall have been absent from the full-time performance of the Executive's duties with the Corporation or a Subsidiary for a period of six consecutive months, the Corporation shall have given the Executive a Notice of Termination for Disability, and, within 20 business days after the Notice of Termination is given, the Executive shall not have returned to the full-time performance of the Executive's duties.
 
          (J) "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
          (K) "Executive" shall mean the individual named in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
          (L) "Good Reason" for termination by the Executive of the Executive's employment shall mean the occurrence, without the Executive's express written consent, of any one of the following:
               (i) the assignment to the Executive of any duties inconsistent with the Executive's status as an executive officer of the Corporation or of a Subsidiary or a substantial adverse alteration in the nature or status of the Executive's responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control;
               (ii) a reduction by the Corporation in the Executive's annual base salary to any amount less than the Executive's annual base salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control;
               (iii) the relocation of the principal executive offices of the Corporation to a location more than 35 miles from the location of such offices immediately prior to the Change in Control or the Corporation's requiring the Executive to be based anywhere other than the principal executive offices of the Corporation, or in the case that the Executive was not based at the principal executive offices of the Corporation immediately prior to the Change of Control, to a location more than 35 miles from the location where the Executive was based immediately prior to the Change of Control, except for required business travel to an extent substantially consistent with the Executive's business travel obligations immediately prior to the Change in Control;
               (iv) the failure by the Corporation to pay to the Executive any portion of the Executive's current compensation, or to pay to the Executive any deferred compensation under any deferred compensation program of the Corporation, within five calendar days after the date the compensation is due (taking into account applicable restrictions under Section 409A) or to pay or reimburse the Executive for any expenses incurred by him for required business travel;
               (v) the failure by the Corporation to continue in effect any compensation plan in which the Executive participates immediately prior to the Change in Control that is material to the Executive's total compensation, including but not limited to, stock option, restricted stock, stock appreciation right, incentive compensation, bonus, and other plans, unless an equitable alternative arrangement embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan has been made, or the failure by the Corporation to continue the Executive's participation therein (or in a substitute or alternative plan) on a basis not materially less favorable, both in terms of the amount of compensation provided and the level of the Executive's participation relative to other participants, than existed immediately prior to the Change in Control;
               (vi) the failure by the Corporation to continue to provide the Executive with benefits substantially similar to those enjoyed by the Executive under any of the Corporation's pension, profit-sharing, life insurance, medical, health and accident, disability, or other employee benefit plans in which the Executive was participating immediately prior to the
 
Change in Control; the failure by the Corporation to continue to provide the Executive any material fringe benefit or perquisite enjoyed by the Executive immediately prior to the Change in Control; or the failure by the Corporation to provide the Executive with the number of paid vacation days to which the Executive is entitled in accordance with the Corporation's normal vacation policy in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control;
               (vii) any purported termination by the Corporation of the Executive's employment that is not effected in accordance with a Notice of Termination satisfying the requirements of paragraph (A) of Section 8 hereof; or
               (viii) any failure by the Corporation to comply with and satisfy Section 12(A) of this Agreement, other than a failure not occurring in bad faith and which is remedied by the Corporation promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive.
          (M) "Non-Interference/Assistance Period" shall mean the period commencing with the Date of Termination and ending on the first anniversary of the Date of Termination.
          (N) "Notice of Termination" shall have the meaning stated in paragraph (A) of Section 8 hereof.
          (O) "Payment Trigger" shall mean the occurrence of a Change in Control during the term of this Agreement coincident with or followed at any time before the end of the second anniversary of the Change in Control by the termination of the Executive's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary for any reason other than (i) by the Executive without Good Reason, (ii) by the Corporation as a result of the Disability of the Executive or with Cause or, (iii) as a result of the death of the Executive.
          (P) "Section 409A" shall mean Section 409A of the Code and any proposed, temporary or final regulations, or any other guidance, promulgated with respect to such Section 409A by the U.S. Department of Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service.
          (Q) "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation or other entity or enterprise, whether incorporated or unincorporated, of which at least a majority of the securities or other interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or others serving similar functions with respect to such corporation or other entity or enterprise is owned by the Corporation or other entity or enterprise of which the Corporation directly or indirectly owns securities or other interests having all the voting power.
     2. . This Agreement shall become effective on the date hereof and, subject to the second sentence of this Section 2, shall continue in effect until the earliest of (i) a Date of Termination in accordance with Section 8, or the death of the Executive, shall have occurred prior to a Change in Control, (ii) if a Payment Trigger shall have occurred during the term of this Agreement, the performance by the Corporation of all its obligations, and the satisfaction by the Corporation of all its obligations and liabilities, under this Agreement, (iii) the five year anniversary of the date of this Agreement if, as of that five year anniversary, a Change in Control shall not have occurred and be continuing, or (iv) in the event, as of the five year anniversary of the date of this Agreement, a Change in Control shall have occurred and be
Term of Agreement
 
continuing, either the expiration of such period thereafter within which a Payment Trigger does not or can not occur or the ensuing occurrence of a Payment Trigger and the performance by the Corporation of all of its obligations and liabilities under this Agreement. Any Change in Control during the term of this Agreement that for any reason ceases to constitute a Change in Control or is not followed by a Payment Trigger shall not effect a termination or lapse of this Agreement. Any transfer of the Executive's employment from the Corporation to a Subsidiary, from a Subsidiary to the Corporation, or from one Subsidiary to another Subsidiary shall not constitute a termination of the Executive's employment for purposes of this Agreement.
     3. .
General Provisions
          (A) The Corporation hereby represents and warrants to the Executive as follows: The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the performance by the Corporation of the actions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Corporation. This Agreement is a legal, valid and legally binding obligation of the Corporation enforceable in accordance with its terms. Neither the execution or delivery of this Agreement nor the consummation by the Corporation of the actions contemplated hereby (i) will violate any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws (or other charter documents) of the Corporation, (ii) will violate or be in conflict with any applicable law or any judgment, decree, injunction or order of any court or governmental agency or authority, or (iii) will violate or conflict with or constitute a default (or an event of which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under or will result in the termination of, accelerate the performance required by, or result in the creation of any lien, security interest, charge or encumbrance upon any of the assets or properties of the Corporation under, any term or provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws (or other charter documents) of the Corporation or of any contract, commitment, understanding, arrangement, agreement or restriction of any kind or character to which the Corporation is a party or by which the Corporation or any of its properties or assets may be bound or affected.
          (B) No amount or benefit shall be payable under this Agreement unless there shall have occurred a Payment Trigger during the term of this Agreement. In no event shall payments in accordance with this Agreement be made in respect of more than one Payment Trigger.
          (C) This Agreement shall not be construed as creating an express or implied contract of employment and, except as otherwise agreed in writing between the Executive and the Corporation, the Executive shall not have any right to be retained in the employ of the Corporation or of a Subsidiary. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence or any other provision of this Agreement, no purported termination of the Executive's employment that is not effected in accordance with a Notice of Termination satisfying paragraph (A) of Section 8 shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement. The Executive's right, following the occurrence of a Change in Control, to terminate his employment under this Agreement for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Executive's Disability or incapacity. The Executive's continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any act or failure to act constituting Good Reason under this Agreement.
 
     4. . Upon the occurrence of a Payment Trigger during the term of this Agreement:
Payments Due Upon a Payment Trigger
          (A) The Corporation shall pay to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 10 calendar days after the Payment Trigger an amount equal to the sum of: (i) the Executive's annual base salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid, (ii) the amount of any incentive compensation that has been allocated or awarded to the Executive for a completed fiscal year or other measuring period preceding the occurrence of the Date of Termination under any incentive compensation plan but has not yet been paid to the Executive, (iii) the product of (x) the Annual Incentive Target in effect immediately prior to the Payment Trigger and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of calendar days in the current fiscal year through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is 365, reduced by the amount, if any, paid or payable to the Executive under the Annual Incentive Plan's terms with respect to the fiscal year during which the Date of Termination occurs, and (iv) any accrued vacation pay to the extent not theretofore paid.
          (B) The Corporation shall pay to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 10 calendar days after the Payment Trigger an amount equal to the product of: (i) multiplied by, (ii) the sum of: (x) the higher of the Executive's annual base salary in effect immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change in Control or the Executive's annual base salary in effect immediately prior to the Payment Trigger, plus (y) the higher of the Executive's Annual Incentive Target in effect immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change in Control or the Executive's Annual Incentive Target in effect immediately prior to the Payment Trigger.
[___]
          (C) The Corporation shall pay to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 10 calendar days after the Payment Trigger an amount equal to the product of (i) the Executive's monthly premium for health and dental insurance continuation coverage for the Executive and the Executive's family under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 ("COBRA"), based on the monthly premium rate for such coverage in effect on the Date of Termination, multiplied by (ii) months.
[___]
          (D) The Corporation shall, at its sole expense as incurred, provide the Executive with outplacement services from a recognized outplacement service provider, the scope of which shall be selected by the Executive in his sole discretion, provided that (i) the cost to the Corporation shall not exceed , and (ii) to the extent required to comply with Section 409A, in no event shall the period during which the outplacement service expenses are incurred or the period during which the expenses are paid, extend beyond the end of the second calendar year that begins after the Executive's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A (or such other period as permitted under Section 409A).
[___]
          (E) To the extent not theretofore paid or provided, the Corporation shall timely pay or provide to the Executive any other amounts or benefits required to be paid or provided or which the Executive is eligible to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement of the Corporation or any Subsidiary.
 
The amount determined under paragraphs (A)(iii), (B), (C) and (D) of this Section 4 shall be reduced by any cash severance benefit otherwise paid to the Executive by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries under any applicable severance plan or other severance arrangement.
     5. .
Gross-Up Payments
          (A) This Section 5 shall apply if a Payment Trigger shall have occurred during the term of this Agreement.
          (B) In the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Corporation or other amount with respect to the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 5 (a "Payment"), is (or will be) subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or any interest or penalties are (or will be) incurred by the Executive with respect to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code with respect to the Corporation (the excise tax, together with any interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), the Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional cash payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") from the Corporation in an amount such that, after payment by the Executive of all taxes (and any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, but excluding any income taxes and penalties imposed pursuant to Section 409A, the Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5(B), if it shall be determined that the Executive is entitled to a Gross-Up Payment, but that the Payments do not exceed 110% of the greatest amount (the "Reduced Amount") that could be paid to the Executive such that the receipt of Payments would not give rise to any Excise Tax, then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to the Executive and the Payments, in the aggregate, shall be reduced to the Reduced Amount. The Gross-Up Payments, if any, shall be paid to the Executive at the same time as any Payment subject to the Excise Tax is paid or provided to the Executive, or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter (or as otherwise permitted under Section 409A).
          (C) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (D) of this Section 5, all determinations required to be made under this Section 5, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at the determination, shall be made by a nationally recognized certified public accounting firm designated by the Executive (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Corporation and the Executive within 30 calendar days after the receipt of notice from the Executive that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Corporation. In the event that at any time relevant to this Agreement the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the Change in Control, the Executive shall appoint another nationally recognized certified public accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Corporation. If the Accounting
 
Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by the Executive, it shall so indicate to the Executive in writing. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Executive. As a result of uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments that the Corporation should have made will not have been made (an "Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event the Corporation exhausts its remedies in accordance with paragraph (D) of this Section 5 and the Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of Underpayment that has occurred and the Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive.
          (D) The Executive shall notify the Corporation in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require a Gross-Up Payment (that has not already been paid by the Corporation). The notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten business days after the Executive is informed in writing of the claim and shall apprise the Corporation of the nature of the claim and the date on which the claim is requested to be paid. The Executive shall not pay the claim prior to the expiration of the 30 calendar day period following the date on which the Executive gives notice to the Corporation or any shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to the claim is due. If the Corporation notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of the 30 calendar day period that it desires to contest the claim, the Executive shall:
               (i) give the Corporation any information reasonably requested by the Corporation relating to the claim;
               (ii) take any action in connection with contesting the claim as the Corporation shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to the claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Corporation;
               (iii) cooperate with the Corporation in good faith in order effectively to contest the claim; and
               (iv) permit the Corporation to participate in any proceedings relating to the claim.
The Corporation shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with the contest and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto), but excluding any income taxes and penalties imposed pursuant to Section 409A, imposed as a result of the representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation of the foregoing provisions of this Section 5, the Corporation shall control all proceedings taken in connection with the contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings, and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of the claim and may, at its sole option, either direct the Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Executive agrees to prosecute the contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal,
 
in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Corporation shall determine. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, if the Corporation directs the Executive to pay the claim and sue for a refund, the Corporation shall advance the amount of the payment to the Executive, on an interest-free basis, and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed with respect to the advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to the advance; and any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Executive with respect to which the contested amount is claimed to be due shall be limited solely to the contested amount. The Corporation's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Executive shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
          (E) If, after the receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Corporation pursuant to paragraph (D) of this Section 5, the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to the claim, the Executive shall, subject to the Corporation's compliance with the requirements of paragraph (D) of this Section 5, promptly pay to the Corporation the amount of the refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after the receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Corporation pursuant to paragraph (D) of this Section 5, a determination is made that the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to the claim and the Corporation does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest the denial of refund prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days after the determination, then the advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of the advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
     6. . To the extent applicable, the parties intend that this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A. This Agreement shall be construed, administered, and governed in a manner consistent with this intent. Any provision that would cause any amount payable or benefit provided under this Agreement to be includable in the gross income of the Executive (or subject to additional taxes or interest) under Section 409A shall have no force and effect unless and until amended to cause such amount or benefit to not be so includable (which amendment shall be made without the consent of the Executive and shall maintain, to the maximum extent practicable, the original intent of the applicable provision without violating the requirements of Section 409A). In particular, to the extent that the Executive has a right to receive a payment or benefit pursuant to this Agreement that is subject to Section 409A, then notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, such payment or benefit will be made or provided, to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, no earlier than (a) 10 calendar days after the Executive's "separation from service" with the Company (determined in accordance with Section 409A); provided, however, that if the Executive is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A) at such time, then any payment or benefit that would otherwise be paid or provided during the first six months following such separation from service shall be accumulated through and paid (together with interest at the applicable federal rate under Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code in effect on the Date of
Compliance with Section 409A
 
Termination) no earlier than the first business day following the six month anniversary of such separation of service; or (b) 10 calendar days after the Executive's death.
     7. . Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Corporation shall not be obligated to make any payment or provide any benefit under Sections 4(A)(iii), 4(B), 4(C), 4(D) or Section 5, (a) unless the Executive first executes and does not revoke a release substantially in the form attached hereto as ; and (b) to the extent such payment or benefit is subject to the seven-day revocation period prescribed by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, or to any similar revocation period in effect on the date of termination of the Executive's employment, such revocation period has expired.
Release
Exhibit A
     8. .
Termination Procedures
          (A) During the term of this Agreement, any purported termination of the Executive's employment (other than by reason of death) shall be communicated by written Notice of Termination from one party hereto to the other party hereto in accordance with Section 13 hereof. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" shall mean a written notice that indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, and, if applicable, the notice shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated. Further, a Notice of Termination for Cause shall include a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board that was called and held for the purpose of considering the termination (after reasonable notice to the Executive and an opportunity for the Executive, together with his counsel, to be heard by the members of the Board) finding that, in the informed, reasonable, good faith judgment of the Board, the Executive was guilty of conduct set forth in the definition of Cause in Section 1(D), and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
          (B) "Date of Termination" with respect to any purported termination of the Executive's employment during the term of this Agreement (other than by reason of death) shall mean (i) if the Executive's employment is terminated for Disability, 20 business days after Notice of Termination is given (provided that the Executive shall not have returned to the full-time performance of the Executive's duties during that 20 business day period) and (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated for any other reason, the date specified in the Notice of Termination, which, in the case of a termination by the Corporation, shall not be less than ten business days except in the case of a termination for Cause, and, in the case of a termination by the Executive, shall not be less than ten business days nor more than 20 business days, respectively, after the date such Notice of Termination is given.
     9.
Non-Disclosure; Non-Competition; and Non-Interference
          (A) The Executive acknowledges that in the course of his employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries he has had and will have access to confidential information and trade secrets proprietary to the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, information relating to the Corporation's and its Subsidiaries' products, suppliers, and customers, the sources, nature, processes, costs and prices of the Corporation's and its
 
Subsidiaries' products, the names, addresses, contact persons, purchasing and sales histories, and preferences of the Corporation's and its Subsidiaries' suppliers and customers, the Corporation's and its Subsidiaries' business plans and strategies, and the names and addresses of, amounts of compensation paid to, and the trading and sales performance of the Corporation's and its Subsidiaries' employees and agents (hereinafter referred to as the "Confidential Information"). The Executive further acknowledges that the Confidential Information is proprietary to the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, that the unauthorized disclosure of any of the Confidential Information to any person or entity will result in immediate and irreparable competitive injury to the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, and that such injury cannot adequately be remedied by an award of monetary damages. Accordingly, the Executive shall not at any time disclose any Confidential Information to any person or entity who is not properly authorized by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries to receive the information without the prior written consent of the Chairman of the Board of the Corporation (which consent may be withheld for any reason or no reason) unless and except to the extent that such disclosure is required by any subpoena or other legal process (in which event the Executive will give the Chairman of the Board of the Corporation prompt written notice of such subpoena or other legal process in order to permit the Corporation and its Subsidiaries to seek appropriate protective orders), and that he shall not use any Confidential Information for his own account without the prior written consent of the Chairman of the Board of the Corporation (which consent may be withheld for any reason or no reason).
          (B) The Executive shall not during his employment with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries and thereafter until the expiration of the Non-Interference/Assistance Period, in any manner, directly or indirectly, through any person, firm or corporation, alone or as a member of a partnership or as an officer, director, shareholder, investor or employee of or in any other corporation or enterprise or otherwise, (i) engage in or be engaged in, or assist any other person, firm, corporation or enterprise in engaging or being engaged in, any business then actively being conducted by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries, or any business that each of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries has engaged in during the preceding one-year period, within any state in which the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries is licensed as an incumbent or competitive local exchange carrier, or (ii) solicit, service, or accept the business of any active customer of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries, or any person or entity who is or was at any time during the previous one-year period a customer of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries. Nothing in this Section shall prohibit the Executive from being: (x) a shareholder in a mutual fund or a diversified investment company or (y) a passive owner of not more than 5% of the outstanding equity securities of any class of a corporation or other entity which is publicly traded, so long as the Executive has no active participation in the business of such corporation or other entity.
          (C) The Executive shall not during his employment with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries and thereafter until the expiration of the Non-Interference/Assistance Period employ, or assist any person or entity in employing, any employee of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries. The Executive shall not during his employment with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries and thereafter until the expiration of the Non-Interference/Assistance Period solicit, or assist any person or entity to solicit, any employee of any member of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries to leave the employment of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries or to become employed by any other entity.
 
          (D) If a court holds that the restrictions stated herein are unreasonable under circumstances then existing, the parties hereto agree that the maximum period, scope or geographical area reasonable under such circumstances shall be substituted for the stated period, scope or area and that the court shall be allowed to revise the restrictions contained herein to cover the maximum period, scope and area permitted by law.
          (E) The Executive acknowledges that the covenants contained in this Section 9 are a principal inducement for the willingness of the Corporation to enter into this Agreement and make the payments and provide the benefits to the Executive under this Agreement and that the Corporation and the Executive intend the covenants to be binding upon and enforceable against the Executive in accordance with their terms, notwithstanding any common or statutory law to the contrary. The Executive agrees that the obligations of the Corporation under this Agreement (specifically including, but not limited to, the obligation to make any payment or provide any benefit under Sections 4(A)(iii), 4(B), 4(C), 4(D) or Section 5) constitute sufficient consideration for the covenants contained in this Section 9. The Corporation and the Executive further agree that the restrictions contained in this Section 9 are reasonable in period, scope and geographical area and are necessary to protect the legitimate business interests and Confidential Information of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries. The Executive agrees that he will notify the Corporation and its Subsidiaries in writing if he has, or reasonably should have, any questions regarding the applicability of this Section 9. Because the Executive's services are unique and because the Executive has access to Confidential Information, the parties agree that the Corporation and its Subsidiaries would be damaged irreparably in the event any of the provisions of this Section 9 were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached and that money damages would be an inadequate remedy for any such non-performance or breach. In the event that the Executive breaches or threatens to breach any such provision of this Section 9, the parties agree that the Corporation and its Subsidiaries shall be entitled to seek any and all equitable and legal relief provided by law, specifically including immediate and permanent injunctive relief to prevent any breach or threatened breach of any of such provisions and to enforce such provisions specifically (without posting a bond or other security). The Executive hereby waives any claim that the Corporation or its Subsidiaries have an adequate remedy at law. The parties agree that the foregoing relief shall not be construed to limit or otherwise restrict the ability of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries to pursue any other remedy provided by law, including the recovery of any actual, compensatory or punitive damages.
     10. . The Executive shall not be required to seek other employment or to attempt in any way to reduce any amounts payable to the Executive by the Corporation pursuant to this Agreement. Further, the amount of any payment or benefit provided for in this Agreement shall not be reduced by any compensation earned by the Executive as the result of employment by another employer, by retirement benefits, by offset against any amount claimed to be owed by the Executive to the Corporation or a Subsidiary, or otherwise.
No Mitigation
     11. .
Disputes
          (A) Any dispute or controversy arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall, upon a written notice from the Executive to the Corporation either before suit
 
thereupon is filed or within 20 business days thereafter, be settled exclusively by binding arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitration proceeding shall be conducted before a panel of three arbitrators sitting (i) if the Executive is employed by the Corporation or any Subsidiary at the time of the initiation of the arbitration, in the municipality in which the Executive's principal place of employment is located at the time, and (ii) if the Executive's employment with the Corporation or any Subsidiary has terminated prior to the time of initiation of the arbitration, at a location which is within 50 miles of the location of the Executive's principal place of employment at the time of his termination of employment. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's award in any court having jurisdiction. The Executive shall, however, be entitled to seek specific performance of the Corporation's obligations hereunder during the pendency of any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall not be required to seek or participate in arbitration regarding any breach or threatened breach by the Executive of his obligations in Section 9, but may pursue its remedies for such breach in a court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with Section 11(B) below.
          (B) Any legal action concerning this Agreement, other than an arbitration described in paragraph (A) of this Section 11, whether instituted by the Corporation or the Executive, shall be brought and resolved only in a state court of competent jurisdiction located in the territory that encompasses the city, county, or parish in which the Executive's principal residence is located at the time such action is commenced. The Corporation hereby irrevocably consents and submits to and shall take any action necessary to subject itself to the personal jurisdiction of that court and hereby irrevocably agrees that all claims in respect of the action shall be instituted, heard, and determined in that court. The Corporation agrees that such court is a convenient forum, and hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of the action. Any final judgment in the action may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law.
          (C) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation shall pay all costs and expenses, including attorneys' fees and disbursements, of the Corporation and, at least monthly, the Executive in connection with any legal proceeding (including arbitration), whether or not instituted by the Corporation or the Executive, relating to the interpretation or enforcement of any provision of this Agreement, provided that if the Executive instituted the proceeding and the judge, arbitrator, or other individual presiding over the proceeding affirmatively finds that the Executive instituted the proceeding in bad faith, the Executive shall pay all costs and expenses, including attorney's fees and disbursements, of the Executive and the Corporation. The Corporation shall pay prejudgment interest on any money judgment obtained by the Executive as a result of such proceeding, calculated at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code.
     12. .
Successors; Binding Agreement
          (A) In addition to any obligations imposed by law upon any successor to the Corporation, the Corporation shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the
 
Corporation expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Corporation would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. The provisions of this Section 12 shall continue to apply to each subsequent employer of Executive bound by this Agreement in the event of any merger, consolidation, or transfer of all or substantially all of the business or assets of that subsequent employer.
          (B) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees, and legatees. If the Executive shall die while any amount would be payable to the Executive hereunder (other than amounts which, by their terms, terminate upon the death of the Executive) if the Executive had continued to live, the amount, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to the executors, personal representatives, or administrators of the Executive's estate.
     13. . For the purpose of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the respective addresses set forth below, or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon actual receipt:
Notices
     To the Corporation:
Windstream Corporation 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, Arkansas 72212 Attention: Chairman of the Board
     To the Executive:
     
[Insert]
     14. . Except as otherwise provided in Section 6, no provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived, or discharged unless such waiver, modification, or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by the Executive and an officer of the Corporation specifically designated by the Board. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement. The validity, interpretation, construction, and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware. All references to sections of the Exchange Act or the Code shall be deemed also to refer to any successor provisions to such sections. Any payments provided for hereunder shall be paid net of any applicable withholding required under federal, state, or local law and any additional withholding to which the Executive has agreed.
Miscellaneous
 
     15. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Validity
     16. . This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have signed this Agreement as of the date set forth above.
 
     (this "Waiver and Release") is entered into by and between ("Executive") and Windstream Corporation (the "Company") (collectively, the "Parties").
THIS WAIVER AND RELEASE AGREEMENT
                    
                    
     , the Parties have entered into a Change-in-Control Agreement dated November 7, 2006 (the "Agreement");
WHEREAS
     , Executive's employment has been or will be terminated on in accordance with the Agreement;
WHEREAS
                    
     , Executive is required to sign this Waiver and Release in order to receive the payment of certain severance benefits under the Agreement following termination of employment; and
WHEREAS
     , the Company has agreed to sign this Waiver and Release.
WHEREAS
     , in consideration of the promises and agreements contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound, the Parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
 
 
Mr. Tommy Keet Windstream Corporation 4001 Rodney Parham Drive Little Rock, Arkansas 72212
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have themselves signed, or caused a duly authorized agent thereof to sign, this Waiver and Release on their behalf and thereby acknowledge their intent to be bound by its terms and conditions.

 
Exhibit 10.3
November 7, 2006
Mr. Francis X. Frantz Chairman of the Board Windstream Corporation 4001 Rodney Parham Road Little Rock, Arkansas 72212
Re: Access to Post-Retirement Medical Coverage
Dear Skip:
As we previously discussed, you plan to retire as an active employee of Windstream Corporation ("Windstream") effective December 31, 2006. As a result of your retirement, you will cease to qualify for medical coverage under the Windstream Comprehensive Plan of Group Insurance. In consideration of your continued service as the non-executive Chairman of the Board, Windstream is pleased to offer you post-retirement medical coverage, subject to the following terms and conditions:
     1. Windstream shall provide you and your eligible dependents with access to continuation coverage as required under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 ("COBRA"), and you agree to elect such coverage in accordance with the terms and conditions of COBRA and timely pay all applicable COBRA premiums, in each case in the manner specified by Windstream's "Authorized Representative," as defined in Section 9.
     2. No later than May 1, 2008, Windstream will offer you a 30-day period to enroll in coverage under Windstream's retiree medical insurance contract with United Healthcare or any replacement or successor contract then in effect that provides comparable retiree medical coverage ("SMRP II"). Such coverage will apply to you and your "eligible dependents," which for purposes of this letter constitute your spouse (or your surviving spouse in the event of your death) and each of your children who is or becomes eligible for coverage under the Windstream Comprehensive Plan of Group Insurance as in effect as of the date of this letter. If you decline coverage under the SMRP II or fail to make an election during the designated 30-day enrollment period, then you shall cease to be eligible for coverage under the SMRP II or any alternative insurance contract, and Windstream shall have no further obligation under this letter, including without limitation any obligation to provide you or your eligible dependents access to medical coverage. At any time after you have enrolled in SMRP II, you may opt out of, and thereafter opt back in to, the coverage specified in this letter without losing any future rights or benefits specified in this letter. Your right to opt out and thereafter opt back in to coverage shall be limited to two occasions during your lifetime, may only be made with respect to one or more full enrollment periods that otherwise would be applicable under this letter, and shall require at least 30-days notice to the Authorized Representative in advance of the commencement of any enrollment period with respect to which you opt out or opt back in to coverage under this letter.
 
     3. If you enroll in the SMRP II as provided in Section 2 above, then coverage under SMRP II shall begin immediately following the expiration of the applicable COBRA continuation period and shall continue for your lifetime (subject to your right specified in Section 2 to opt out and thereafter opt back in). Following your death, coverage under the SMRP II shall continue for each eligible dependent until the date that such dependent is no longer considered an eligible dependent. If at any time following your initial enrollment in SMRP II, SMRP II coverage becomes unavailable to Windstream or impracticable for Windstream to procure, Windstream shall use its reasonable best efforts to provide you and your eligible dependents access to medical benefits under another insurance contract that are as comparable to SMRP II as practicable.
     4. Windstream's obligation to provide access to medical coverage under Section 3 shall apply only if you or your eligible dependents reimburse Windstream for the Required Premium (as defined below) each month commencing on or after the expiration of the applicable COBRA continuation period, within 30 days after written notice thereof. To reduce Windstream's administrative expense, you agree to provide Windstream with automatic payment authorization instructions from a financial institution from which Windstream can draw and receive Required Premiums. If either you or your eligible dependents fails to timely pay the Required Premium to Windstream as described in this Section 4 (excluding for this purpose any failure to timely pay which is remedied by you or your eligible dependents 30 days after receipt of written notice of late payment given by Windstream), then Windstream reserves the right, in it sole discretion, to terminate such coverage, and on and after any such termination, Windstream shall have no further obligation under this letter, including without limitation any obligation to provide you or your eligible dependents access to medical coverage. For purposes of this letter, the term "Required Premium" for any month means the premium that you would be required to pay during such period for medical coverage for you and your eligible dependents (as applicable) as a "Retired Employee" under the Preferred Provider Organization constituent plan of the Windstream Comprehensive Plan of Group Insurance, or its successor (the "PPO Plan"). If, however, Windstream ceases to offer medical coverage to retirees under the PPO Plan, the Required Premium shall be based on the premium rate in effect for retiree medical coverage under any plan or program designated by Windstream (whether or not sponsored by Windstream) that the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Windstream determines provides substantially similar retiree medical coverage as the former PPO Plan.
     5. Notwithstanding anything contained in this letter to the contrary, Windstream shall not be obligated to provide any post-retirement medical coverage to you or your eligible dependents unless and until the following three conditions precedent have been satisfied: (a) you retire as an active employee of Windstream on or before December 31, 2006 (the date of such retirement being the "Termination Date"); (b) on or after the Termination Date, you execute and do not revoke the Waiver and Release attached hereto; and (c) the seven-day revocation period prescribed by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, expires.
     6. This letter sets forth Windstream's sole obligation to you and your eligible dependents with regard to post-retirement medical coverage. No understanding, promise, inducement, statement of intention, representation, warranty, covenant or condition, written or oral, express or implied, has been made by any party hereto which is not embodied in this letter and no party hereto shall be bound by or liable for any alleged understanding, promise,
 
inducement, statement, representation, warranty, covenant or condition not so set forth. There are no third party beneficiaries of this letter, other than your eligible dependents. Any provision of this letter may be amended or modified in whole or in part at any time by an agreement in writing among the parties hereto. Each of the parties hereto agrees to execute and deliver such other documents or agreements and to take such other action as may be reasonably necessary or desirable for the implementation of this letter. Except to the extent preempted by federal law, this letter shall be governed by, and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts made and to be performed in that State without giving effect to any conflict of laws rules or principles that might require the application of the laws of another jurisdiction. All determinations and decisions made in good faith by Windstream and the Compensation Committee of the Windstream Board of Directors in accordance with this letter shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons.
     7. Any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all or a substantial portion of its business and/or assets shall be deemed to expressly assume and be obligated to perform Windstream's obligations under this letter immediately upon such succession in the same manner and to the same extent that Windstream would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this letter, "Windstream" shall mean Windstream as defined above and any successor to its business or assets as contemplated by this Section 7.
     8. Yours rights and benefits specified in this letter shall not be conditioned in any respect on your serving as Chairman or a director of Windstream. Accordingly, Windstream's obligations specified in this letter shall continue in all respects following any cessation of your status as Chairman or a director of Windstream.
     9. From time to time, Windstream shall specify, by written notice to you, an employee in its Human Resources, Accounting and Finance, or Legal groups as Windstream's authorized representative (the "Authorized Representative") related to your rights and benefits specified in this letter. Until further notice to you, Windstream's Authorized Representative shall be Susan Bradley, 501-748-7892, susan.bradley@windstream.com.
 
     In consideration for the post-retirement medical coverage in the letter agreement with the Company dated November 7, 2006 (the "Letter Agreement"), Francis X. Frantz (the "Executive"), for himself, and for his heirs, administrators, representatives, executors, successors, assigns and eligible dependents (as defined in the Letter Agreement) (collectively "Releasers") does hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release, acquit and forever discharge Windstream Corporation (the "Company"), its subsidiaries, affiliates and divisions and their respective, current and former, trustees, officers, directors, partners, shareholders, agents, employees, consultants, independent contractors and representatives, including without limitation all persons acting by, through under or in concert with any of them (collectively, "Releasees"), and each of them from any and all charges, complaints, claims, liabilities, obligations, promises, agreements, controversies, damages, remedies, actions, causes of action, suits, rights, demands, costs, losses, debts and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs) of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, whether in law or equity and whether arising under federal, state or local law and in particular including any claim for discrimination based upon race, color, ethnicity, sex, age (including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967), national origin, religion, disability, or any other unlawful criterion or circumstance, which the Executive and Releasers had, now have, or may have in the future against each or any of the Releasees, including under the Arkansas Equal Pay Law 11-4 . (collectively "Executive/Releaser Actions") arising on or before the date hereof.
et seq
     The Executive acknowledges that: (i) this entire Waiver and Release is written in a manner calculated to be understood by him; (ii) he has been advised to consult with an attorney before executing this Waiver and Release; (iii) he was given a period of twenty-one days within which to consider this Waiver and Release; and (iv) to the extent he executes this Waiver and Release before the expiration of the twenty-one day period, he does so knowingly and voluntarily and only after consulting his attorney. The Executive shall have the right to cancel and revoke this Waiver and Release by delivering notice to the Company (as provided below) prior to the expiration of the seven-day period following the date hereof, and the post-termination medical coverage in the Letter Agreement shall not become effective, until the day after the expiration of such seven-day period (the "Revocation Date"). Upon such revocation, this Waiver and Release and the post-termination medical coverage in the Letter Agreement shall be null and void and of no further force or effect. Any notice of revocation shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid to Windstream Corporation, 4001 Rodney Parham Road, Little Rock, Arkansas 72212, Attention: General Counsel.
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the sole matters to which the Waiver and Release do not apply are: (i) the Executive's or any applicable Releaser's rights of indemnification, limitation of liability, and directors' and officers' liability insurance coverage to which such person was or is entitled with regard to the Executive's service as an officer of the Company or any Subsidiary; (ii) the Executive's rights under any employee benefit, welfare benefit or compensation plan, policy or arrangement (whether tax-qualified or not) maintained by the Company or under COBRA; (iii) the Executive's rights under the Letter Agreement and
 
(iv) the Executive's and any applicable Releaser's rights arising as a result of Executive's service as Chairman or a director of the Company or any Subsidiary.
     Executive agrees that the post-termination medical coverage in the Letter Agreement is in lieu of, and replaces, any medical coverage or benefits that he may have been eligible, or entitled to, under any Windstream policy or practice. This Waiver and Release is the complete understanding between the Executive and the Company in respect of the subject matter of this Waiver and Release and supersedes all prior agreements relating to the same subject matter. The Executive has not relied upon any representations, promises or agreements of any kind except those set forth herein in signing this Waiver and Release.
     In the event that any provision of this Waiver and Release should be held to be invalid or unenforceable, each and all of the other provisions of this Waiver and Release shall remain in full force and effect. If any provision of this Waiver and Release is found to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be modified as necessary to permit this Waiver and Release to be upheld and enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law.
     This Waiver and Release shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. This Waiver and Release inures to the benefit of the Company and its successors and assigns.


