FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20061109070223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On November 9, 2006, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's third quarter 2006 unaudited consolidated results of operations.
     The Company's press release and other communications from time to time include certain non-GAAP financial measures. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is defined as a numerical measure of a company's financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the Company's financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     The press release presents the Company's consolidated results of operations measured under GAAP and certain pro forma results of operations from current businesses. On July 17, 2006, Alltel Corporation ("Alltel") completed the spin-off of its wireline telecommunications business to its stockholders and the merger of that wireline business with Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("Valor"). The resulting company was renamed Windstream Corporation. The GAAP results for the Company reflect the Alltel wireline business for the full third quarter of 2006, and for prior periods, and reflect the results from Valor businesses beginning July 17, 2006. The press release and other communications from time to time include a presentation of certain unaudited pro forma historical results of operations that the Company refers to as pro forma results from current businesses. These results from current businesses are non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the following adjustments to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP:
Windstream's purpose for including the results of Valor businesses, and excluding Alltel royalty expense and the adjustments related to the discontinuance of SFAS No. 71, is to improve comparability of results of operations for prior periods (which exclude Valor results and include Alltel royalty expenses under GAAP measures) to the results of operations for periods beginning with the third quarter of 2006 (which will include Valor results under GAAP measures and will no longer reflect Alltel royalty expenses as those were discontinued as a result of the Merger, nor the effects of applying SFAS No. 71). Windstream's purpose for its other adjustments is to focus on Windstream's true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items either included or excluded from the pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available, and accordingly, should be excluded when evaluating the Company's operations.
     For these reasons, management believes that presenting the current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as management's primary measure of the performance of its business segments. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting purposes, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
     The Company's press release and other communications from time to time include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Company's financial statements by taking operating income and adding depreciation and amortization. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, which is also a non-
 
GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information related to the Company's operating performance and its ability to provide cash flows to service debt, fund capital expenditures and pay dividends. The Company uses OIBDA as a primary measure of the performance of its business. The Company's management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses OIBDA for internal reporting purposes, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, resource allocation and the determination of management and employee compensation.
     The Company's communications from time to time include a non-GAAP measure entitled net debt. Net debt is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents. The Company believes net debt provides useful information to investors about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt level and improve its capital structure.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports record broadband customer growth in third quarter
Merger efforts on track to achieve $40 million in net synergies in 2007
Release date: Nov. 9, 2006
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corporation (NYSE: WIN) reported record broadband customer growth in its first quarterly earnings report as a public company. Windstream reported diluted earnings per share under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) of 43 cents, a 59 percent increase from a year ago that includes a non-cash after-tax gain of approximately $100 million related to the discontinuance of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) 71.
"Windstream delivered solid results for the quarter especially when you consider the substantial separation and integration efforts that took place with the launch of our new company," said Jeff Gardner, President and CEO. "We are on track to achieve the targeted $40 million in net synergies in 2007 from the VALOR merger. Going forward, we will continue to focus on driving broadband and digital TV sales while aggressively managing expenses to bolster the cash generation capabilities of our business."
Among the highlights for the third quarter on a GAAP basis:
Pro forma highlights for the third quarter from current businesses included:
 
Windstream was formed July 17, 2006, through the spinoff from Alltel and merger with VALOR Communications Group, Inc.
Windstream's GAAP results reflect the Alltel wireline business for the full third quarter and the VALOR business starting July 17. Pro forma results from current businesses are non-GAAP financial measures and exclude the non-cash after-tax gain of $100 million related to the discontinuance of SFAS 71 and other one-time expenses related to the spinoff and merger and include the VALOR business for a full quarter. A reconciliation of pro forma results from current businesses to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the following financial schedules.
Conference call
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CST today to discuss the company's third-quarter earnings results.
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-866-277-1182, passcode 91811408 five minutes prior to the start time. A replay of the call will be available beginning at 9:30 a.m. CST today and ending at midnight CST on Nov. 16. The replay can be accessed by calling 1-888-286-8010, passcode 94274528.
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors. A replay of the Web cast will be available on the Web site beginning at 9:30 a.m. CST today.
About Windstream
Windstream Corporation provides voice, broadband and entertainment services to customers in 16 states. The company has approximately 3.3 million access lines and about $3.2 billion in annual revenues. For more information, visit www.windstream.com.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements, including (without limitation) statements about expected realization of $40 million in net synergies in 2007, are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Representative examples of these factors include (without limitation) adverse changes in economic conditions in the regions in which Windstream operates; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; changes in communications technology; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstream's debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the uncertainties related to Windstream's strategic investments; the effects of work
 
stoppages; the effects of litigation; potential outcome of income tax audits; the effects of federal and state legislation, rules and regulations governing the communications industry; product liability and other claims asserted against Windstream; and the risks that are described in the sections entitled "risk factors" and "special note concerning forward-looking statements" in the company's proxy statement/prospectus-information statement dated May 26, 2006, and in Windstream's other filings with the SEC. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of other, more general, factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and Windstream has no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release.
Media Relations Contact: David Avery, 501-748-5876 david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts: Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578 mary.michaels@windstream.com
Rob Clancy, 501-748-5550 rob.clancy@windstream.com
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME-Page 1 (In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM CURRENT       BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 2       for the three months ended September 30, 2006 (In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM CURRENT    BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 3 for the three months ended September 30, 2005 (In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM CURRENT      BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 4 for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 (In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM CURRENT       BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 5 for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 (In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION NOTES TO UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM      CURRENT BUSINESSES-Page 6
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION NOTES TO UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM      CURRENT BUSINESSES-Page 7
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING INFORMATION-Page 8 (Dollars in thousands, except per customer amounts)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS UNDER GAAP-Page 9 (In thousands)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS UNDER GAAP-Page 10 (In thousands)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA OIBDA FROM CURRENT      BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 11 (In thousands)


