FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20070510073045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On May 10, 2007, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's first quarter 2007 unaudited consolidated results of operations.
     The Company's press release and other communications from time to time include certain financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the United States. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is defined as a numerical measure of a company's financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Company's financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     The press release presents the Company's consolidated results of operations measured under GAAP and certain pro forma results of operations from current businesses. On July 17, 2006, Alltel Corporation ("Alltel") completed the spin-off of its wireline telecommunications business to its stockholders and the merger of that wireline business with Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("Valor"). The resulting company was renamed Windstream Corporation. The GAAP results for the Company for the first quarter of 2006 reflect only the Alltel wireline business, which was considered the accounting acquirer in the merger. On December 12, 2006, Windstream announced that it would split off its directory publishing business in what is expected to be a tax-free transaction with entities affiliated with Welsh, Carson, Anderson and Stowe ("WCAS"), a private equity investment firm. The press release and other communications from time to time include a presentation of certain unaudited pro forma historical results of operations that the Company refers to as pro forma results from current businesses. These results from current businesses are non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the following adjustments to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP:
     Windstream's purpose for including the results of Valor's businesses, and excluding the directory publishing business and the non-recurring items listed above, is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the first quarter of 2006 to the results of operations for the first quarter of 2007. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items either included or excluded from the pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available, and, accordingly, should be excluded when evaluating the Company's operations.
     For these reasons, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of the operational performance of its business segments. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting purposes, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
     The Company's press release and other communications from time to time include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Company's financial statements by taking operating income and adding back depreciation and amortization expense. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, which is
 
also a non-GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Company's operating performance.
     The Company's communications from time to time include a non-GAAP measure entitled net debt. Net debt is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents. The Company believes net debt provides useful information to investors about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt level and improve its capital structure.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports record broadband,
digital TV growth in first quarter
Release date: May 10, 2007
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corporation (NYSE: WIN) produced record broadband and digital TV customer growth in the first quarter ending March 31, 2007.
Windstream added approximately 59,000 net broadband customers and approximately 35,000 net digital TV customers in the first quarter. Both are quarterly records. The company has more than 715,000 total broadband customers and more than 122,000 total digital TV customers through an agreement with EchoStar Communications Corporation to offer DISH Network satellite TV service to Windstream customers.
"Our company is off to a great start for 2007 with solid execution by our team during the quarter selling broadband and digital TV, two of our most important service offerings," said Jeff Gardner, President and CEO. "With our singular focus on this business, Windstream is well positioned to continue delivering solid results and strong and sustainable cash flows."
Windstream achieved diluted earnings per share under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) of 21 cents. The GAAP results included a non-cash charge of $5.3 million for the early retirement of debt issuance costs, $4.8 million in restructuring and transaction expenses, and the results for the company's directory publishing business.
Among the highlights for the first quarter on a GAAP basis:
Among the pro forma highlights for the first quarter from current businesses, excluding $4.8 million in restructuring and transaction expenses and results for the company's directory publishing business:
 
Windstream also announced it expects to substantially complete in the third quarter the split-off of its directory publishing business in a tax-free transaction to Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, a private equity investment firm. The transaction was originally announced on Dec. 12, 2006.
Windstream was formed July 17, 2006, through the spinoff from Alltel and merger with VALOR Communications Group, Inc.
Windstream's GAAP results reflect the Alltel wireline business for the entire year of 2006 through the first quarter of 2007 and the VALOR business starting July 17, 2006. Pro forma results from current businesses are non-GAAP financial measures that include results from VALOR's business for periods prior to the merger, and excludes various non-recurring items related to the transaction, the discontinuance of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 and the split-off of the company's directory publishing business.
Conference call
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CDT today to discuss the company's first-quarter earnings results.
To access the call:
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-866-700-0161, passcode 30462041, five minutes prior to the start time.
The international dial-in number is 1-617-213-8832, passcode 30462041.
 
To access the call replay:
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 9:30 a.m. CDT today and ending at midnight CDT on May 17. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-888-286-8010, passcode 35266865.
The international dial-in number for the replay is 1-617-801-6888, passcode 35266865.
Web cast information:
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the Web cast will be available on the Web site beginning at 9:30 a.m. CDT today.
About Windstream
Windstream Corporation provides voice, broadband and entertainment services to customers in 16 states. The company has approximately 3.2 million access lines and about $3.2 billion in annual revenues. For more information, visit www.windstream.com.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; changes in communications technology; the risks associated with the separation of the publishing business; failure to realize expected benefits as a result of the transactions described above; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstream's debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the effects of work stoppages; the effects of litigation, including any litigation with respect to the above-referenced transactions; and the effects of federal and state legislation, rules and regulations governing the communications industry. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others,
 
general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876 david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contact:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578 mary.michaels@windstream.com
Rob Clancy, 501-748-5550 rob.clancy@windstream.com
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME-Page 1 (In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING INFORMATION-Page 2 (Dollars in millions, except per customer amounts)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS UNDER GAAP-Page 3 (In millions)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS UNDER GAAP-Page 4 (In millions)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF REVENUES AND SALES AND OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA REVENUES AND SALES AND PRO FORMA OIBDA FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 5 (In millions)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION NOTES TO UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES-Page 6
On July 17, 2006, Windstream Corporation was formed through the spin-off of Alltel Corporation's ("Alltel") wireline telecommunications business to its stockholders, and the subsequent merger of that wireline business with Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("Valor"). As disclosed in the Windstream Form 8-K filed on May 10, 2007, the Company has presented in this earnings release unaudited pro forma results from current businesses, which include results from Valor's businesses for periods prior to the merger, and excludes various non-recurring items related to the transaction, to the discontinuation of SFAS No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation" and to the split off of its directory publishing business in what Windstream expects to be a tax-free transaction with entities affiliated with Welsh, Carson, Anderson and Stowe ("WCAS"), a private equity investment firm. Windstream's purpose for including the results of Valor's businesses, and excluding non-recurring items and the results of the directory publishing business, is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the first quarter of 2006 to the results of operations for the first quarter of 2007. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items either included or excluded from the pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available, and, accordingly, should be excluded when evaluating the Company's operations. For these reasons, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses, including pro forma revenues and sales and pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, as a key measure of the operational performance of its business segments. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting purposes, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
On December 12, 2006, Windstream announced that it would split off its directory publishing business. In exchange for Windstream's publishing business, WCAS will pay Windstream a special dividend, execute a debt-for-debt exchange and relinquish approximately 19.6 million shares in Windstream common stock.


