FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20070208070053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On February 8, 2007, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's fourth quarter 2006 unaudited consolidated results of operations.
     The Company's press release and other communications from time to time include certain non-GAAP financial measures. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is defined as a numerical measure of a company's financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the Company's financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     The press release presents the Company's consolidated results of operations measured under GAAP and certain pro forma results of operations from current businesses. On July 17, 2006, Alltel Corporation ("Alltel") completed the spin-off of its wireline telecommunications business to its stockholders and the merger of that wireline business with Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("Valor"). The resulting company was renamed Windstream Corporation. The GAAP results for the Company reflect the Alltel wireline business for all periods presented, and reflect the results from Valor businesses beginning July 17, 2006. The press release and other communications from time to time include a presentation of certain unaudited pro forma historical results of operations that the Company refers to as pro forma results from current businesses. These results from current businesses are non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the following adjustments to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP:
Windstream's purpose for including the results of Valor's businesses, and excluding non-recurring items is to improve the comparability of results of operations for prior periods to the results of operations for periods beginning with the third quarter of 2006. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items either included or excluded from the pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available, and, accordingly, should be excluded when evaluating the Company's operations.
For these reasons, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of the operational performance of its business segments. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting purposes, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
     The Company's press release and other communications from time to time include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Company's financial statements by taking operating income and adding depreciation and amortization. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, which is also a non-GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Company's operating performance.
 
     The Company's communications from time to time include a non-GAAP measure entitled net debt. Net debt is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents. The Company believes net debt provides useful information to investors about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt level and improve its capital structure.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
February 8, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports solid results for fourth quarter
Record broadband growth drives 2006 financial performance
Release date: Feb. 8, 2007
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corporation (NYSE: WIN) achieved solid results for the fourth quarter with continued strong broadband customer growth. Windstream achieved diluted earnings per share under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) of 25 cents, a 19 percent increase from a year ago that includes approximately $27 million in one-time restructuring, integration and transaction expenses on a pre-tax basis. Diluted earnings per share under GAAP for the year was $1.25, a 34 percent increase year-over-year.
"Windstream delivered a solid performance in our first full quarter as a public company," said Jeff Gardner, president and CEO. "For the year we added a record 206,000 broadband customers while expanding broadband availability and offering faster speeds. Driving broadband and digital TV sales will continue to be our primary focus in 2007 while aggressively managing operating and capital expenditures in order to better and more efficiently serve our customers. "
Among the financial highlights for the fourth quarter on a GAAP basis:
Also during the quarter, Windstream announced an agreement to split-off its directory publishing business, Windstream Yellow Pages, in a tax-free transaction to affiliates of Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, a private equity
 
investment firm that currently holds approximately 4.1 percent of Windstream common stock. The total value of the transaction is $525 million or $850 million on a taxable equivalent basis. As a result of the transaction, Windstream expects to retire up to approximately $250 million in debt and repurchase approximately 19.6 million shares of Windstream common stock valued at approximately $275 million at the time of signing.
"We are on schedule to substantially complete the directory publishing transaction in the second quarter, enabling us to focus on our core communications and entertainment business," Gardner said. "From a balance sheet perspective, we have ample flexibility to pursue strategic opportunities, should they arise, and explore other potential uses of our cash including share repurchases and debt reduction."
Among the financial highlights for the year on a GAAP basis:
Windstream was formed July 17, 2006, through the spinoff from Alltel and merger with VALOR Communications Group, Inc.
Windstream's GAAP results reflect the Alltel wireline business for the entire year of 2006 and the VALOR business starting July 17. Pro forma results from current businesses are non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the VALOR business for periods prior to July 17 and exclude one-time expenses related to the spinoff and merger, the discontinuance of SFAS No. 71, the split-off of the directory publishing business and the restructuring of certain business operations. A reconciliation of pro forma results from current businesses to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the following financial schedules.
 
Conference call
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CST today to discuss the company's fourth-quarter earnings results.
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-888-873-4896, passcode 11695690 five minutes prior to the start time. A replay of the call will be available beginning at 9:30 a.m. CST today and ending at midnight CST on Feb. 15. The replay can be accessed by calling 1-888-286-8010, passcode 36431318.
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the Web cast will be available on the Web site beginning at 9:30 a.m. CST today.
About Windstream
Windstream Corporation provides voice, broadband and entertainment services to customers in 16 states. The company has approximately 3.2 million access lines and about $3.2 billion in annual revenues. For more information, visit www.windstream.com.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; changes in communications technology; the risks associated with the separation of the publishing business; failure to realize expected benefits as a result of the transactions described above; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstream's debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the uncertainties related to Windstream's strategic investments; the effects of work stoppages; the effects of litigation, including any litigation with respect to the above-referenced transactions; and the effects of federal and state legislation, rules and regulations governing the communications industry. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
 
events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Media Relations Contact: David Avery, 501-748-5876 david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts: Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578 mary.michaels@windstream.com
Rob Clancy, 501-748-5550 rob.clancy@windstream.com
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME-Page 1 (In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING INFORMATION-Page 2 (Dollars in thousands, except per customer amounts)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS UNDER GAAP-Page 3 (In thousands)
ASSETS
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
 
     
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO OIBDA PRO FORMA FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 5 (In thousands)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION NOTES TO UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES-Page 6


