FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20070817115945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On August 17, 2007, Windstream Corporation issued a press release announcing that Keith Paglusch, Windstream's Chief Operating Officer, is leaving Windstream effective immediately. A copy of the press release is included as Exhibit 99(a) to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 17, 2007

Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream COO to leave company
Release date: Aug. 17, 2007
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corporation (NYSE: WIN) today announced it is making a change in its operations management. Keith Paglusch, chief operating officer, is leaving Windstream effective immediately.
President and CEO Jeff Gardner will assume Paglusch's responsibilities. Windstream has no immediate plans to fill the position.
"I thank Keith for his contributions to Windstream during our first year as a public company," said Gardner.
About Windstream
Windstream Corporation provides voice, broadband and entertainment services to customers in 16 states. The company has approximately 3.2 million access lines and about $3.2 billion in annual revenues. For more information, visit www.windstream.com.
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
david.avery@windstream.com


