FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20070104164249.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
2007 Deferred Compensation Plan
On December 29, 2006, the Company adopted the Windstream 2007 Deferred Compensation Plan (the "2007 Plan"), effective as of December 31, 2006. The 2007 Plan is a nonqualified deferred compensation plan under which certain officers and key employees of the Company and its participating affiliates may elect to defer a specified percentage of their future annual base salary and bonus on a pre-tax basis. Also, the Company may, in its sole discretion, make "matching credits" on behalf of certain participants. The deferred compensation is credited with earnings, gains and losses in accordance with investment crediting options established by the Company from time to time.
The deferred compensation is payable in cash at certain future dates specified by participants in accordance with the 2007 Plan or upon the occurrence of certain events, such as death, disability, other termination of employment or as otherwise contemplated in the 2007 Plan. The amounts generally are payable in a lump sum or in installments, as elected by a participant, and are paid out of the Company's general assets. The Company, however, may decide to finance its obligations under the 2007 Plan by acquiring assets through a trust, the assets of which will remain subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors. The Company may amend, terminate or freeze the 2007 Plan in whole or in part except that no such action may reduce the amounts credited to a participant's account unless required to comply with applicable laws.
The foregoing description of the 2007 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the plan document, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein.
Amendment to Prior Plans
In connection with the adoption of the 2007 Plan, the Company merged the following plans (or portions thereof) with and into the 2007 Plan, effective as of January 1, 2007: (i) the Windstream Management Deferred Compensation Plan; (ii) the Windstream Executive Deferred Compensation Plan; and (iii) the profit sharing plan portion and the thrift plan portion of the Windstream Benefit Restoration Plan (the merged plans, or portions thereof, are collectively referred to as the "Prior Plans"). As a result of the merger, the Prior Plans will terminate and all of the Company's obligations and participants' rights under the Prior Plans will automatically be extinguished and become obligations and rights under the 2007 Plan, effective as of January 1, 2007.
The foregoing description of the amendments to the Prior Plans is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the plan amendments, which are filed as Exhibits 10.2, 10.3, and 10.4 and are incorporated herein.
Item 9.01 Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
See Exhibit Index
 
SIGNATURE
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
January 4, 2007
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
Article I
Establishment and Purpose
Windstream Corporation (the "Company") hereby establishes the Windstream 2007 Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). This Plan is effective on the Effective Date. The purpose of the Plan is to attract and retain key employees by providing each Participant with an opportunity to defer receipt of a portion of their salary, bonus, and other specified compensation and to provide for the payment of certain amounts deferred under the prior plans maintained by the Company.
Article II
Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article III
Eligibility and Participation
Article IV
Deferral Elections
 
 
 
Article V
Modifications to Payment Schedules
 
 
Article VI
Company Contributions
Article VII
Valuation of Account Balances; Investments
 
Article VIII
Distribution and Withdrawals
 
experiences an Unforeseeable Emergency. Distributions of amounts in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency are limited to the extent reasonably needed to satisfy the emergency need which cannot be met from other sources. The amount of such distribution shall be subtracted first from the vested portion of the Participant's Retirement/Termination Account until depleted and then from the vested Specified Date Accounts, beginning with the Specified Date Account with the latest payment commencement date. For purposes of the preceding sentence, any minimum deferral requirement specified in the Plan or Section 5.1 shall not apply. Payment shall be made ten (10) calendar days following the determination by the Committee that a hardship withdrawal will be permitted.
Payment is treated as made upon the payment commencement date under the applicable Payment Schedule if the payment is made on or after such date in the same calendar year or, if later, by the 15 day of the third calendar month following the date specified under the arrangement. If a calculation of the amount of the payment is not administratively practical due to events beyond the control of the Participant, a Beneficiary or the Participant's estate, the payment will be treated as made upon the date specified under the Payment Schedule if the payment is made during the first calendar year in which the payment becomes administratively practicable.
th
 
payee(s) in a single lump sum as soon as is administratively practical following the Committee's determination that the order meets the requirements of this Section 8.10.
Article IX
Administration
 
Article X
Amendment and Termination
 
 
manner that effects such intent, and the Committee shall not take any action that would be inconsistent with such intent. Any provisions that would cause any amount deferred or payable under the Plan to be includible in the gross income of any Participant or Beneficiary or subject to interest or penalties under Code Section 409A(a)(1) shall have no force and effect unless and until amended to cause such amount to not be so includible (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A). Although the Committee shall use its best efforts to avoid the imposition of taxation, interest and penalties under Code Section 409A, the tax treatment of deferrals under this Plan is not warranted or guaranteed. Neither the Company, its Affiliates, directors, officers, nor the Committee shall be held liable for any taxes, interest, penalties or other monetary amounts owed by any Participant, Beneficiary or other taxpayer as a result of the Plan.
Article XI
Informal Funding
The obligation of the Company and the Affiliates under the Plan to make payment of amounts reflected in an Account merely constitutes the unsecured promise of the Company and the Affiliates to make payments from their general assets and no Participant or Beneficiary shall have any interest in, or a lien or prior claim upon, any property of the Company or any Affiliate. It is the intention of the Company and the Affiliates that the Plan be unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of ERISA. The Company may create a trust to hold funds to be used in payment of its and the Affiliates' obligations under the Plan, and may fund such trust; , , that any funds contained therein shall remain liable for the claims of the Company's and any Affiliate's general creditors.
provided
however
Article XII
Claims
 
the Committee. If any claim for benefits filed by any person under the Plan (the "Claimant") is denied in whole or in part, the Committee shall issue a written notice of such adverse benefit determination to the Claimant. The notice shall be issued to the Claimant within a reasonable period of time but in no event later than ninety (90) calendar days from the date the claim for benefits was filed. The notice issued by the Committee shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant, and shall include the following:
The Committee shall comply with the additional requirements prescribed by Department of Labor Reg. 2560.503-1 for claims regarding the determination of disability.
The Claimant or his duly authorized representative may:
 
The review by the Committee shall take into account all comments, documents, records, and other information submitted by the Claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination. The Committee shall furnish a written decision on review not later than sixty (60) calendar days after receipt of the written request for review of the adverse benefit determination, unless special circumstances require an extension of the time for processing the appeal. If an extension of time for review is required because of special circumstances, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Claimant prior to the commencement of the extension, and the Committee shall furnish a written decision on review not later than one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days after receipt of the written request for review of the adverse benefit determination. The decision on review shall be in writing, shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant, and, in the case of an adverse benefit determination on review, shall include (i) specific reasons for the adverse benefit determination, (ii) references to the specific Plan provisions on which the decision is based, (iii) a statement that the Claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the Claimant's claim for benefits, (iv) a statement that there is no voluntary appeal procedure offered by the Plan, and (v) a statement of the Claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination on review.
The Committee shall comply with the additional requirements prescribed by Department of Labor Reg. 2560.503-1 for review of claims regarding the determination of disability.
Article XIII
General Conditions
 
or Beneficiary's interest under this Plan to an "alternate payee" as defined in Code Section 414(p).
 
if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark on the receipt for registration or certification. Written transmission shall be sent by certified mail to:
Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to a Participant under this Plan shall be sufficient if in writing or hand-delivered, or sent by mail to the last known address of the Participant.
Article XIV
Prior Plans and Benefit Restoration Plan
 
account balance under a Prior Plan. Each Participant's outstanding account balances under the Prior Plans (as adjusted for earnings through December 31, 2006) will be transferred and credited to the Participant's Prior Plan Account as of the Effective Date and, as a result of such transfer and crediting, all of the Company's obligations and Participant's rights under each Prior Plan shall automatically be extinguished and become obligations and rights under this Plan without further action. Notwithstanding any provision of the Prior Plans to the contrary, and the provision of this Plan will govern and control the payment and deemed investment of all Prior Plan Accounts, and a Participant's rights with respect to any such Prior Plan Accounts will be determined exclusively under this Plan, as modified by paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) below:
 
payment thereof, the then current balance (if any) of a Participant's 1993 Plan Fund shall be credited with an amount equal to the product of: (a) the balance of the Participant's 1993 Plan Fund as of the close of business on that December 31st; and (b) 5.00%. As of the time at which payment of an amount from a Participant's 1993 Plan Fund occurs, there shall be added to the amount paid an amount equal to the product of: (a) the amount to be paid from the 1993 Plan Fund (determined without regard to this sentence); (b) 5.00%; and (c) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of calendar days elapsed subsequent to the immediately preceding December 31st and prior to the date that payment is to occur, and the denominator of which is 365.
 
reasonably comparable to the substitute interest rate, which prospectively shall be used as the "Interest Rate" for the purposes of this Section 14.1(b).
 
The Company's Board of Directors may make or provide for such adjustments in the cash dividends, Market Value and Book Value and in the kind of shares upon which the Alltel Phantom Stock Fund is based, as the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, exercised in good faith, may determine is equitably required to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants that otherwise would result from (a) any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization or other change in the capital structure of the Alltel Corporation, or (b) any merger, consolidation, spin-off, split-off, spin-out, split-up, reorganization, partial or complete liquidation or other distribution of assets (including, without limitation, a special or large non-recurring dividend), issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, or (c) any other corporate transaction or event having an effect similar to any of the foregoing. The actions taken and the decisions made by the Company's Board of Directors hereunder shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all persons, including the Company, its shareholders, Affiliates, employees, Participants, and their estates and Beneficiaries.
 
 
Participant under the Benefit Restoration Plan (including any distribution or investment election), the provision of this Plan, including without limitation, the provisions of Article VII and VIII, will govern and control the payment and deemed investment of all BRP Transferred Amounts credited to the Participant's Retirement/Termination Accounts as provided in this Section 14.2, and a Participant's rights with respect to any such BRP Transferred Amounts will be determined exclusively under this Plan, as modified by paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) below:
     
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Plan as of the 29th day of December, 2006 to be effective as of the Effective Date.
Windstream Corporation

 
Exhibit 10.2
     The Windstream Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is amended, effective as of December 29, 2006, as follows:
"Each Participant's Deferred Compensation Account balance under the Plan (as adjusted for earnings through December 31, 2006) will be transferred and credited to the Participant's "Prior Plan Account" under the Windstream 2007 Deferred Compensation Plan (the "2007 Plan") as of January 1, 2007. As a result of such transfer and crediting, all of the Company's obligations and Participant's rights under the Plan shall automatically be extinguished and become obligations and rights under the 2007 Plan without further action and the Plan shall automatically be terminated, in each case effective as of January 1, 2007."
     This amendment has been approved and signed by an authorized officer of Windstream Corporation as of the date specified above.
 

 
Exhibit 10.3
     The Windstream Management Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is amended, effective as of December 29, 2006, as follows:
"Each Participant's Deferred Compensation Account balance under the Plan (as adjusted for earnings through December 31, 2006) will be transferred and credited to the Participant's "Prior Plan Account" under the Windstream 2007 Deferred Compensation Plan (the "2007 Plan") as of January 1, 2007. As a result of such transfer and crediting, all of the Company's obligations and Participant's rights under the Plan shall automatically be extinguished and become obligations and rights under the 2007 Plan without further action and the Plan shall automatically be terminated, in each case effective as of January 1, 2007."
     This amendment has been approved and signed by an authorized officer of Windstream Corporation as of the date specified above.

 
Exhibit 10.4
     The Windstream Benefit Restoration Plan (the "Plan") is amended, effective as of December 29, 2006, as follows:
     1. The Plan is hereby amended by adding the following new Article IX at the end thereof:
Each Participant's Profit Sharing Plan Excess Benefit Account and Thrift Plan Excess Benefit Account balances under the Plan for services through December 31, 2006 (as adjusted for earnings through December 31, 2006) will be transferred and credited to the Participant's "Retirement/Termination Account" under the Windstream 2007 Deferred Compensation Plan (the "2007 Plan") as of January 1, 2007. As a result of such transfer and crediting, all of the Company's obligations and Participant's rights under the Profit-Sharing Plan portion (as set forth in Article III) and the Thrift Plan portion (as set forth in Article IV) of the Plan shall automatically be extinguished and become obligations and rights under the 2007 Plan without further action and the Profit-Sharing Plan portion (as set forth in Article III) and the Thrift Plan portion (as set forth in Article IV) of the Plan shall automatically be terminated, in each case effective as of January 1, 2007. "
     2. Except as explicitly set forth herein, the Plan will remain in full force and effect, including, without limitation, the Retirement and Spousal Death Benefits portion of the Plan (as set forth in Article V of the Plan).
     This amendment has been approved and signed by an authorized officer of Windstream Corporation as of the date specified above.
 


