FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20070808073116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 8, 2007, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's second quarter 2007 unaudited consolidated results of operations.
The press release presents the Company's consolidated results of operations measured under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and certain pro forma results of operations from current businesses. On July 17, 2006, Alltel Corporation ("Alltel") completed the spin-off of its wireline telecommunications business to its stockholders and the merger of that wireline business with Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("Valor"). The resulting company was renamed Windstream Corporation. The GAAP results for the Company for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006 reflect only the Alltel wireline business, which was considered the accounting acquirer in the merger.
The Company's press release, and other communications from time to time, include certain financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with GAAP in the United States. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is defined as a numerical measure of a company's financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Company's financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
This press release includes a presentation of certain unaudited pro forma historical results of operations that the Company refers to as pro forma results from current businesses. These results from current businesses are non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the following adjustments to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP:
 
Windstream's purpose for including the results of Valor's businesses, and excluding the directory publishing business and the non-recurring items listed above, is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the three and six month periods of 2006 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2007. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items either included or excluded from the pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available, and, accordingly, should be excluded when evaluating the Company's operations. The Company has updated its historical pro forma results by adding back severance expenses that were previously excluded in prior quarters. These types of expenses should not necessarily be viewed as non-recurring.
For these reasons, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of the operational performance of its business segments. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting purposes, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
 
The Company's press release, and other communications from time to time, include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Company's financial statements by taking operating income and adding back depreciation and amortization expense. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, which is also a non-GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Company's operating performance.
The Company's communications from time to time include a non-GAAP measure entitled net debt. Net debt is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents. The Company believes net debt provides useful information to investors about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt level and improve its capital structure.
The Company will also from time to time include a non-GAAP measure entitled free cash flow. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided from operations less net cash used in investing activities. The Company believes free cash flow provides the investor useful information about cash available to pay dividends. The Company will include a non-GAAP measure entitled dividend payout ratio. Dividend payout ratio is defined as dividends paid on common shares divided by free cash flow.
On May 25, 2007, Windstream entered into a definitive agreement to acquire CT Communications, Inc. ("CT Communications"). The acquisition is expected to close in the third quarter of 2007, subject to certain conditions, including necessary approvals from the Federal Communications Commission and CT Communications shareholders. Pro forma results from current businesses presented herein do not include adjustments for the operating results of CT Communications.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
August 8, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports higher revenue in second-quarter
Release date: Aug. 8, 2007
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corporation (NYSE: WIN) reported higher consolidated revenue in the second quarter driven by continued growth in broadband, special access and long-distance revenues.
"Our focus on selling broadband and digital TV to customers continues to drive revenue growth," said Jeff Gardner, president and CEO. "Our first year as a public company has been successful. We have outperformed the industry in many key metrics, built a great brand and created a culture at Windstream that will serve us well going forward."
Windstream achieved diluted earnings per share under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) of 24 cents for the second quarter. The GAAP results included results for the company's directory publishing business and $1.6 million in transaction expenses associated with the upcoming split-off of the publishing business.
Among the highlights for the second quarter on a GAAP basis:
 
 
 
 
Among the pro forma highlights for the second quarter from current businesses:
 
 
 
Windstream's pro forma results from current businesses exclude results for the company's directory publishing business and transaction expenses associated with its split-off. Results also include a favorable $13.3 million cash settlement received during the quarter resolving disputes over a period of several years with a large wholesale customer.
 
Operational highlights
Windstream added approximately 37,000 broadband customers, bringing its total broadband customer base to approximately 753,000  an increase of 37 percent year-over-year and a penetration rate of 24 percent of total access lines.
The company added approximately 28,000 digital TV customers, bringing its total digital TV customer base to more than 150,000  an increase of 251 percent year-over-year and a penetration rate of 5 percent of total lines.
Total access lines declined approximately 35,000, a 7 percent improvement from the line loss experienced in the same period a year ago. Total lines at the end of the quarter were 3.18 million, a 4.5 percent decline year-over-year.
"This is the tenth consecutive quarter that our broadband net additions more than offset access line declines, which is a result of solid execution by the Windstream team," Gardner said.
Windstream announced during the second quarter an agreement to acquire North Carolina-based CT Communications, Inc. The transaction is valued at approximately $585 million, including the assumption of cash and debt.
CTC shareholders will vote on the merger proposal Aug. 23. Pending a favorable vote, Windstream expects to close the transaction shortly thereafter subject to approval from the FCC.
Windstream also announced it expects to receive in the third quarter a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding the split-off of the company's directory publishing business in a tax-free transaction to Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, a private equity investment firm. Windstream will repurchase approximately 19.6 million shares, retire approximately $200 million in debt and receive roughly $50 million in cash for additional debt retirement or stock repurchase through the transaction, which was originally announced on Dec. 12, 2006. Upon receipt of the IRS letter, Windstream expects to close the transaction within the next several months.
Windstream also filed this week a petition with the Federal Communications Commission to migrate the balance of its regulated companies from rate-of-return regulation to price-cap regulation at the federal level.
Windstream was formed July 17, 2006, through the spinoff from Alltel and merger with VALOR Communications Group, Inc.
Windstream's GAAP results reflect the Alltel wireline business for the entire year of 2006 through the second quarter of 2007 and the VALOR business starting July 17, 2006. Pro forma results from current businesses are non-GAAP financial
measures that include results from VALOR's business for periods prior to the merger, and excludes various non-recurring items related to the transaction, the discontinuance of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 and the split-off of the company's directory publishing business. A reconciliation of pro forma results from current businesses to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the following financial schedules.
Conference call
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CDT today to discuss the company's second-quarter earnings results.
To access the call:
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-888-679-8035, passcode 96644642, five minutes prior to the start time.
The international dial-in number is 1-617-213-4848, passcode 96644642.
To access the call replay:
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 9:30 a.m. CDT on Aug. 8 and ending at midnight CDT on Aug. 15. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-888-286-8010, passcode 24309954.
The international dial-in number for the replay is 1-617-801-6888, passcode 24309954.
Web cast information:
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the Web cast will be available on the Web site beginning at 9:30 a.m. CDT on Aug. 8.
About Windstream
Windstream Corporation provides voice, broadband and entertainment services to customers in 16 states. The company has approximately 3.2 million access lines and about $3.2 billion in annual revenues. For more information, visit www.windstream.com.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates,
projections, beliefs and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; continued access line loss; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstream's debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of federal and state legislation, rules and regulations governing the communications industry; the adoption of inter-carrier compensation and/or universal service reform proposal by the Federal Communications Commission or Congress that results in a significant loss of revenue to Windstream; an adverse development regarding the tax treatment of the spin-off from Alltel on July 17, 2006, and the restrictions on certain financing and other activities imposed by the tax sharing agreement with Alltel; the failure to successfully complete the contemplated split off of our directory publishing business, Windstream Yellow Pages, in what Windstream expects to be a tax-free transaction to affiliates of Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unexpected results of litigation; the effects of workstoppages; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; and those additional factors under the caption "Risk Factors" in Windstream's Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
 
 
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com
Rob Clancy, 501-748-5550
rob.clancy@windstream.com
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME-Page 1
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING INFORMATION-Page 2
(Dollars in millions, except per customer amounts)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS UNDER GAAP-Page 3
(In millions)
ASSETS
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS UNDER GAAP-Page 4
(In millions)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF REVENUES AND SALES AND OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA REVENUES AND SALES AND PRO FORMA OIBDA FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 5
(In millions)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
NOTES TO UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES-Page 6
On July 17, 2006, Windstream Corporation was formed through the spin-off of Alltel Corporation's ("Alltel") wireline telecommunications business to its stockholders, and the subsequent merger of that wireline business with Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("Valor"). As disclosed in the Windstream Form 8-K filed on August 8, 2007, the Company has presented in this earnings release unaudited pro forma results from current businesses, which include results from Valor's businesses for periods prior to the merger, and excludes various non-recurring items related to the transaction, to the discontinuation of SFAS No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation" and to the split off of its directory publishing business in what Windstream expects to be a tax-free transaction with entities affiliated with Welsh, Carson, Anderson and Stowe ("WCAS"), a private equity investment firm. Windstream's purpose for including the results of Valor's businesses, and excluding non-recurring items and the results of the directory publishing business, is to improve the comparability of results of operations for three and six months ended June 30, 2007 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2006. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available, and, accordingly, should be excluded when evaluating the Company's operations. The Company has updated its historical pro forma results by adding back severance expenses that were previously excluded in prior quarters. These types of expenses should not necessarily be viewed as non-recurring. For these reasons, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods, and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses, including pro forma revenues and sales and pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, as a key measure of the operational performance of its business segments. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting purposes, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
On December 12, 2006, Windstream announced that it would split off its directory publishing business. In exchange for Windstream's publishing business, WCAS will pay Windstream a special dividend, execute a debt-for-debt exchange and relinquish approximately 19.6 million shares in Windstream common stock. Operating results of the publishing business have been excluded from pro forma revenues and sales and pro forma OIBDA from current businesses. On May 25, 2007, Windstream entered into a definitive agreement to acquire CT Communications, Inc. ("CT Communications") for $31.50 per outstanding share of CT Communications' outstanding common stock, or approximately $585.0 million. Pro forma results from current businesses presented herein do not include adjustments for the operating results of CT Communications.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


