FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20080208073240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 8, 2008, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's fourth quarter 2007 unaudited consolidated results of operations. The press release presents the Company's consolidated results of operations measured under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and certain unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is defined as a numerical measure of a company's financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Company's financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions over the last two years that may cause results reported under GAAP to be not necessarily indicative of future results. On July 17, 2006, Windstream Corporation was formed through the spin off of the holding company for Alltel Corporation's ("Alltel") wireline telecommunications business to its shareholders, and the subsequent merger of that holding company with Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("Valor"). The GAAP results for the Company for periods prior to this transaction reflect only the Alltel wireline business, which was considered the accounting acquirer in the merger. On August 31, 2007, Windstream completed the acquisition of CT Communications, Inc. ("CTC"). Additionally, on November 30, 2007, Windstream completed the split off of its directory publishing business (the "publishing business") in a tax-free transaction with entities affiliated with Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe ("WCAS"), a private equity investment firm and Windstream shareholder.
The press release includes a presentation of unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses that reflect the following adjustments to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP:
 
Windstream's purpose for including the results of acquired businesses, and excluding the directory publishing business and the non-recurring items listed above, is to improve the comparability of results of operations for periods in 2006 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2007. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items either included or excluded from the pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available and, accordingly should be excluded when evaluating the Company's operations. The Company's presentation of pro forma results from current businesses includes restructuring charges, consisting primarily of severance expenses, as these types of expenses should not necessarily be viewed as non-recurring.
For these reasons, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of the operational performance of its business segments. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting purposes, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
The Company's press release, and other communications from time to time, include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Company's financial statements by taking operating income and adding back depreciation and amortization expense. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, which is also a non-GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Company's operating performance.
The Company's communications from time to time include a non-GAAP measure entitled net debt. Net debt is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents. The Company believes net debt provides useful information to investors about the Company's capital structure.
The Company will also from time to time include non-GAAP measures entitled "free cash flow" and "dividend payout ratio". Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided from operations less net cash used in the procurement of property, plant and equipment. The Company believes free cash flow provides the investor useful information about cash available to pay dividends. Dividend payout ratio is defined as dividends paid on common shares divided by free cash flow. The Company believes the dividend payout ratio provides the investor useful information about its remaining investable funds after the payment of dividends to shareholders.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
February 8, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream completes first full year with solid quarterly results
Board of directors approves $400 million share repurchase plan through 2009
Release date: Feb. 8, 2008
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corporation (NYSE: WIN) achieved solid financial results in the fourth quarter and delivered a strong financial performance in its first full fiscal year as a public company. The company's board of directors also adopted a $400 million share repurchase plan.
"Windstream delivered another quarter with solid financial performance and industry leading operating metrics despite gradually increasing competition," said Jeff Gardner, president and CEO. "We achieved revenue and operating cash flow growth, on a pro forma basis, for the year and met the financial guidance we provided in early 2007. Strategically, we nearly doubled our presence in North Carolina with the acquisition of CT Communications and successfully split-off our directory publishing business to focus entirely on our core communications and entertainment business."
Windstream achieved diluted earnings per share for the quarter under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) of $1.25, which included a tax-free gain of approximately $451 million related to the sale of the company's directory publishing business and $3.3 million in merger and integration costs related primarily to the acquisition of CT Communications. Diluted earnings per share under GAAP for the year was $1.94.
Free cash flow, defined as net cash provided from operations less capital expenditures, was $668 million for the year, equating to a dividend payout ratio of 71 percent.
Financial highlights:
Among the highlights for the fourth quarter on a GAAP basis:
 
 
 
Among the pro forma highlights for the fourth quarter from current businesses:
 
 
 
 
Among the highlights for 2007 on a GAAP basis:
 
 
 
 
 
Among the pro forma highlights for 2007 from current businesses:
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth-quarter operating highlights:
Windstream added more than 41,000 broadband customers during the quarter, bringing its total broadband customer base to more than 871,000  a 28 percent increase from a year ago and a 27 percent penetration rate of total access lines.
Windstream added more than 18,000 digital TV customers, increasing its total customer base to approximately 196,000, or 10 percent penetration of primary residential lines.
Total access lines declined by roughly 38,000, or 4.6 percent year-over-year, a 7,000 line improvement year-over-year in the absolute lines lost. Total lines at the end of the year were 3.2 million.
 
"Broadband growth in the quarter continued to outpace declines in access lines, which slowed year-over-year, a notable accomplishment in light of increasing voice competition in our markets," Gardner said.
Share repurchase plan
Windstream's board of directors adopted a $400 million share repurchase plan that will expire at the end of 2009. Based on the closing stock price as of Thursday, Feb. 7, 2008, the repurchase plan would equate to approximately 8 percent of total shares outstanding and reduce the dividend payout ratio by 300 to 400 basis points when completed. Under the repurchase plan, the company anticipates purchasing shares either in the open market or through private transactions, in accordance with applicable securities laws. The timing and extent to which the company repurchases its shares will depend upon market conditions and other corporate considerations as may be considered in the company's sole discretion. The program is scheduled to expire on Dec. 31, 2009, unless extended by the board, but may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of Dec. 31, 2007, Windstream had 454 million shares outstanding.
Financial outlook for 2008
Windstream issued the following financial guidance for 2008:
 
The company expects depreciation and amortization expense of approximately $500 million to $505 million; cash interest of approximately $410 million to $415 million; and a cash tax rate in the low 30 percent range for 2008.
The company expects its dividend payout ratio to stay within a range of 70 to 75 percent of free cash flow again in 2008, without contemplating accretion from the authorized share repurchase program.
"Windstream has quality operating assets with significant cash generating capabilities that we believe can be sustained over a long period of time. We implemented several new operational initiatives near the end of 2007 to provide even greater focus on serving our customers and improving our competitiveness. As a result, we are optimistic about 2008," Gardner said.
 
Conference call
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CST today to review the company's fourth-quarter earnings results.
To access the call:
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-866-873-7782, conference ID 30589672, 10 minutes prior to the start time.
The international dial-in number is 1-660-422-4943, conference ID 30589672.
To access the call replay:
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. CST today and ending at midnight CST on Feb. 22. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID 30589672.
The international dial-in number for the replay is 1-706-645-9291, conference ID 30589672.
Web cast information:
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the Web cast will be available on the Web site beginning at 10:30 a.m. CST today.
About Windstream
Windstream Corporation provides voice, broadband and entertainment services to customers in 16 states. The company has approximately 3.2 million access lines and about $3.3 billion in annual revenues. For more information, visit www.windstream.com.
Windstream was formed July 17, 2006, through the spinoff of Alltel's wireline business and its merger with VALOR Communications Group, Inc.
Windstream's GAAP results reflect the Alltel wireline business for the entire year of 2006 through the fourth quarter of 2007; the VALOR business starting July 17, 2006; and CTC's business starting Sept. 1, 2007. Pro forma results from current businesses are non-GAAP financial measures that include results from VALOR and CTC for periods prior to the merger, and excludes various non-recurring items related to the transactions, the discontinuance of SFAS No. 71 and the split-off of the company's directory publishing business. A reconciliation of pro
forma results from current businesses to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the following financial schedules.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements, including the statements regarding Windstream's financial guidance for 2008, are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; continued access line loss; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstream's debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of federal and state legislation, rules and regulations governing the communications industry; the adoption of inter-carrier compensation and/or universal service reforms by the Federal Communications Commission or Congress that results in a significant loss of revenue to Windstream; an adverse development regarding the tax treatment of the spin off from Alltel on July 17, 2006, and the restrictions on certain financing and other activities imposed by the tax sharing agreement with Alltel; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unexpected results of litigation; the effects of workstoppages; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; the ability to execute the company's share repurchase program or the ability to achieve the desired accretive effect from such repurchases; and those additional factors under the caption "Risk Factors" in Windstream's Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
 
 
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com
Rob Clancy, 501-748-5550
rob.clancy@windstream
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME-Page 1
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING INFORMATION-Page 2
(Dollars in millions, customers in thousands)
 
 
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS UNDER GAAP-Page 3
(In millions)
ASSETS
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS UNDER GAAP-Page 4
(In millions)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF REVENUES AND SALES AND OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA REVENUES AND SALES AND PRO FORMA OIBDA FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 5
(In millions)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
NOTES TO UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES-Page 6
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions over the last two years that may cause results reported under GAAP to be not necessarily indicative of future results. On July 17, 2006, Windstream Corporation was formed through the spin off of Alltel Corporation's ("Alltel") wireline telecommunications business to its shareholders, and the subsequent merger of that wireline business with Valor Communications Group, Inc. ("Valor"). On August 31, 2007, Windstream completed the acquisition of CT Communications, Inc. ("CTC"). Under the terms of the transaction CTC shareholders received $31.50 in cash for each of their shares of CTC common stock. On November 30, 2007, Windstream completed the split off its directory publishing business to Welsh, Carson, Anderson, and Stowe ("WCAS"), a private equity investment group and Windstream shareholder. In exchange for Windstream's publishing business, Windstream received a special cash dividend of $40.0 million, received $210.5 million in debt relief through a debt-for-debt exchange, and retired approximately 19.6 million shares in Windstream common stock held by WCAS. As a result of completing this transaction, Windstream recorded a gain of $451.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. As disclosed in the Windstream Form 8-K filed on February 8, 2008, the Company has presented in this earnings release unaudited pro forma results from current businesses, which include results from Valor and CTC for periods prior to their acquisitions and excludes (1) results from the directory publishing business, (2) the impact of discontinuing SFAS No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation," and (3) all merger and integration costs resulting from the transactions discussed above.
Windstream's purpose for including the results of the acquired businesses, and for excluding non-recurring items and the results of the directory publishing business, is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2007 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2006. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available, and, accordingly, should be excluded when evaluating the Company's operations. In the second quarter of 2007, the Company revised its presentation of historical pro forma results to include severance expenses. These expenses had been excluded in prior quarters, but should not necessarily be viewed as non-recurring. Management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods, and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses, including pro forma revenues and sales and pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, as a key measure of the operational performance of its business segments. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting purposes, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


