FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20080509073636.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 9, 2008, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's first quarter 2008 unaudited consolidated results of operations. The press release presents the Company's consolidated results of operations measured under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and certain unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is defined as a numerical measure of a company's financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Company's financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions over the last year that may cause results reported under GAAP to be not necessarily indicative of future results. On August 31, 2007, Windstream completed the acquisition of CT Communications, Inc. ("CTC"). Additionally, on November 30, 2007, Windstream completed the split off of its directory publishing business (the "publishing business") in a tax-free transaction with entities affiliated with Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe ("WCAS"), a private equity investment firm.
The press release includes a presentation of unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses that reflect the following adjustments to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP:
 
 
 
 
Windstream's purpose for including the results of the acquired business, and excluding the directory publishing business and the non-recurring items listed above, is to improve the comparability of results of operations for periods in 2007 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2008. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items either included or excluded from the pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available and, accordingly should be excluded when evaluating the Company's operations. The Company's presentation of pro forma results from current businesses includes restructuring charges, consisting primarily of severance expenses, as these types of expenses should not necessarily be viewed as non-recurring.
For these reasons, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of the operational performance of its business segments. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting purposes, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
The Company's press release, and other communications from time to time, include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Company's financial statements by taking operating income and adding back depreciation and amortization expense. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, which is also a non-GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Company's operating performance.
The Company's communications from time to time include a non-GAAP measure entitled net debt. Net debt is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents. The Company believes net debt provides useful information to investors about the Company's capital structure.
The Company will also from time to time include non-GAAP measures entitled "free cash flow" and "dividend payout ratio". Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided from operations less net cash used in the procurement of property, plant and equipment. The Company believes free cash flow provides the investor useful information about cash available to pay dividends. Dividend payout ratio is defined as dividends paid on common shares divided by free cash flow. The Company believes the dividend payout ratio provides the investor useful information about its remaining investable funds after the payment of dividends to shareholders.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
May 9, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports higher revenue, cash flow in first quarter
Company buys back $100 million in shares during quarter
Release date: May 9, 2008
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corporation (NYSE: WIN) delivered a strong financial performance in the first quarter, posting higher revenue and operating cash flow. The company also repurchased approximately 8.4 million shares for $100 million during the quarter as part of a $400 million share repurchase plan authorized by the board of directors in February.
"Windstream continues to deliver strong operating and financial results in a challenging economic environment that, to date, does not appear to be having much effect on our business," said Jeff Gardner, president and CEO. "We are successfully replacing residential voice revenue streams with growth in data, special access and long-distance. Our business channel is showing growth year-over-year, and our team continues to manage expenses and capital expenditures efficiently."
Windstream achieved diluted earnings per share for the quarter under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) of 27 cents, which included $1.6 million in merger and integration expenses for a billing system conversion related to the acquisition of CT Communications.
Financial highlights:
Among the highlights for the first quarter on a GAAP basis:
 
 
 
Among the pro forma highlights for the first quarter from current businesses:
 
 
 
Windstream reports higher revenue
Page Two
 
 
 
Operating highlights:
Windstream added almost 40,000 broadband customers during the quarter, bringing its total broadband customer base to approximately 911,000  an increase of 22 percent year-over-year and a 29 percent penetration rate of total access lines.
Windstream added approximately 15,000 digital TV customers, bringing its total customer base to more than 210,000, or 11 percent penetration of primary residential lines.
Total access lines declined by approximately 42,000. Total lines at the end of the quarter were 3.16 million, a decline of 4.9 percent year-over-year.
"We recently doubled broadband download speeds to offer 3-Mbps service to virtually all of our broadband customers and up to 12-Mbps service in certain areas. This upgrade increases our competitiveness and provides a platform to sell faster speeds and additional products and services, which is an important part of our strategy to transform this business to a broadband-centric model," Gardner said.
Lower dividend payout ratio expected
With the recent passage of the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008, Windstream now expects its cash tax rate to be in the mid-20 percent range down from the low-30 percent range, which will significantly lower the expected dividend payout ratio for 2008.
Conference call
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CDT today to review the company's first-quarter earnings results.
To access the call:
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-866-873-7782, conference ID 42427797, 10 minutes prior to the start time.
 
Windstream reports higher revenue
Page Three
 
The international dial-in number is 1-660-422-4943, conference ID 42427797.
To access the call replay:
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. CDT today and ending at midnight CDT on May 23. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID 42427797.
The international dial-in number for the replay is 1-706-645-9291, conference ID 42427797.
Web cast information:
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the Web cast will be available on the Web site beginning at 10:30 a.m. CDT today.
About Windstream
Windstream Corporation is an S&P 500 company that provides voice, broadband and entertainment services to customers in 16 states. The company has approximately 3.2 million access lines and about $3.3 billion in annual revenues. For more information, visit www.windstream.com.
Windstream was formed July 17, 2006, through the spinoff of Alltel's wireline business and its merger with VALOR Communications Group, Inc. The company acquired CT Communications (CTC) on Aug. 31, 2007.
Windstream's GAAP results reflect CTC's business starting Sept. 1, 2007. Pro forma results from current businesses are non-GAAP financial measures that include results from CTC for periods prior to the merger and exclude results from the split-off of the company's directory publishing business completed on Nov. 30, 2007, and merger and integration costs related to the CTC and directory publishing transactions. A reconciliation of pro forma results from current businesses to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the following financial schedules.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements, including the statements regarding Windstream's expected cash tax rate and dividend payout ratio for 2008, are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from
 
Windstream reports higher revenue
Page Four
 
those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; continued access line loss; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstream's debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of federal and state legislation, rules and regulations governing the communications industry; the adoption of inter-carrier compensation and/or universal service reforms by the Federal Communications Commission or Congress that results in a significant loss of revenue to Windstream; an adverse development regarding the tax treatment of the spinoff from Alltel on July 17, 2006, and the restrictions on certain financing and other activities imposed by the tax sharing agreement with Alltel; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unexpected results of litigation; the effects of work stoppages; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; the ability to execute the company's share repurchase program or the ability to achieve the desired accretive effect from such repurchases; and those additional factors under the caption "Risk Factors" in Windstream's Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2007. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com
Rob Clancy, 501-748-5550
rob.clancy@windstream
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME-Page 1
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING INFORMATION-Page 2
(Dollars in millions, except per customer amounts)
 
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS UNDER GAAP-Page 3
(In millions)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS UNDER GAAP-Page 4
(In millions)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF REVENUES AND SALES AND OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA REVENUES AND SALES AND PRO FORMA OIBDA FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 5
(In millions)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
NOTES TO UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES-Page 6
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions over the past two years that may cause results reported under GAAP to be not necessarily indicative of future results. On August 31, 2007, Windstream completed the acquisition of CT Communications, Inc. ("CTC"). Under the terms of the transaction CTC shareholders received $31.50 in cash for each of their shares of CTC common stock. On November 30, 2007, Windstream completed the split off its directory publishing business to Welsh, Carson, Anderson, and Stowe ("WCAS"), a private equity investment group and Windstream shareholder. In exchange for Windstream's publishing business, Windstream received a special cash dividend of $40.0 million, received $210.5 million in debt relief through a debt-for-debt exchange, and retired approximately 19.6 million shares in Windstream common stock held by WCAS. As a result of completing this transaction, Windstream recorded a gain of $451.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. As disclosed in the Windstream Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2008, the Company has presented in this earnings release unaudited pro forma results from current businesses, which include results from CTC for periods prior to the acquisition and excludes (1) results from the directory publishing business, and (2) all merger and integration costs resulting from the transactions discussed above.
Windstream's purpose for including the results of the acquired businesses and for excluding non-recurring items and the results of the directory publishing business, is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2008, to the results of operations for the same period of 2007. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available, and, accordingly, should be excluded when evaluating the Company's operations. In the second quarter of 2007, the Company revised its presentation of historical pro forma results to include severance expenses. These expenses had been excluded in prior quarters, but should not necessarily be viewed as non-recurring. Management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods, and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses, including pro forma revenues and sales and pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, as a key measure of the operational performance of its business segments. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes including: internal reporting purposes, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
 
 


