FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20090508073133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 8, 2009, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's first quarter 2009 unaudited consolidated results of operations. The press release presents the Company's consolidated results of operations measured under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") and certain unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is defined as a numerical measure of a company's financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Company's financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions that may cause results reported under GAAP to be not necessarily indicative of future results. On August 31, 2007, Windstream completed the acquisition of CT Communications, Inc. ("CTC"). Subsequently, on November 21, 2008, the Company completed the sale of the wireless business acquired from CTC. As a result of completing this transaction, we will have no significant continuing involvement in the operations or cash flows of the wireless business and accordingly, have reported the related operating results as discontinued operations. Additionally, certain amounts previously reported have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation of the consolidated financial statements. These changes and reclassifications did not impact operating or net income.
The press release includes a presentation of unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses that exclude merger and integration costs related to acquisitions and dispositions for each period presented compared to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Windstream's purpose for excluding these costs is to improve the comparability of results of operations for periods in 2008 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2009. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items excluded from the pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available, and should be treated accordingly when evaluating the Company's operations. The Company's presentation of pro forma results from current businesses includes restructuring charges, consisting primarily of severance expenses, as these types of expenses should not necessarily be viewed as non-recurring.
For these reasons, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
The Company's press release, and other communications from time to time, include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Company's financial statements by taking operating income and adding back depreciation and amortization expense. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, which is also a non-GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Company's operating performance.
 
The Company's communications from time to time include a non-GAAP measure entitled net debt. Net debt is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents. The Company believes net debt provides useful information to investors about the Company's capital structure.
The Company will also from time to time include non-GAAP measures entitled "free cash flow" and "dividend payout ratio". Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided from operations less net cash used in the procurement of property, plant and equipment. The Company believes free cash flow provides the investor useful information about cash available to pay dividends. Dividend payout ratio is defined as dividends paid on common shares divided by free cash flow. The Company believes the dividend payout ratio provides the investor useful information about its remaining investable funds after the payment of dividends to shareholders.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
May 8, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports first-quarter earnings results
 
Release date: May 8, 2009
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corporation (NYSE: WIN) today reported first-quarter earnings results driven by increased high-speed Internet sales and disciplined management of overall cash expenses.
"I am pleased with our results for the first quarter, particularly our operating metrics and cash flow. While our revenue decline year-over-year was affected somewhat by the challenging economic environment, our operating metrics continue to lead the industry. Further, our team has done a great job managing overall expenses, despite higher expenses this quarter repairing damage from a severe ice storm," said Jeff Gardner, president and CEO.
Windstream's first-quarter results under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include the following items, which lowered earnings per share by roughly 4 cents:
 
In addition, results this quarter include incremental non-cash pension expense of approximately $14 million, net of tax, or 3 cents per share, which affects year-over-year comparisons.
The company announced in February that it expects to incur roughly $90 million in increased pension expense during 2009. This pension expense is a non-cash charge and does not affect free cash flow. The increase reflects negative plan returns in 2008 and the company's accounting policy to accelerate recognition of
the effects of large changes in plan asset valuations. Based on preliminary estimates, the company does not expect to make any cash contribution to the pension plan in 2009.
First-quarter financial results:
Under GAAP:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under pro forma results from current businesses:
 
Windstream ended the quarter with $312 million in cash and cash equivalents. The company generated $152 million in free cash flow, which is defined as net cash from operations less capital expenditures, during the quarter.
First-quarter operating results:
Windstream added approximately 31,000 new high-speed Internet customers during the first quarter, nearly double the number of new customers added in the fourth quarter, bringing its total broadband customer base to more than 1 million customers, an increase of almost 11 percent year-over-year. Overall broadband penetration is now 34 percent of total access lines and residential broadband penetration is approximately 52 percent of primary residential lines.
Windstream added more than 21,000 digital TV customers in the quarter, bringing its total customer base to approximately 295,000, or 17 percent penetration of primary residential lines.
Total access lines declined by approximately 44,000, or 5.3 percent year-over-year. Total lines at the end of the quarter were 2.99 million.
Share repurchase plan:
Windstream has repurchased approximately 4.1 million shares for $33 million, at an average price of $7.94 per share, this year to date as part of a $400 million share repurchase plan authorized by the board of directors in February 2008. The company repurchased approximately $200 million in shares in 2008. The share repurchase authorization expires at the end of 2009.
2009 projected free cash flow:
With the tax benefits associated with the federal stimulus package, Windstream now expects to generate between $705 million and $775 million in free cash flow during 2009, an increase of $20 million from previous guidance, resulting in an expected dividend payout ratio between 57 percent and 63 percent.
Conference call
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CDT today to review the company's first-quarter earnings results.
To access the call:
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-877-356-2910, conference ID 94485395, 10 minutes prior to the start time.
The international dial-in number is 1-660-422-4943, conference ID 94485395.
To access the call replay:
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. CDT today and ending at midnight CDT on June 8. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID 94485395.
The international dial-in number for the replay is 1-706-645-9291, conference ID 94485395.
Webcast information:
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the webcast will be available on the Web site beginning at 10:30 a.m. CDT today.
About Windstream
Windstream Corporation is an S&P 500 company that provides digital phone, high-speed Internet and high-definition video and entertainment services to residential and business customers in 16 states. The company has approximately 3 million access lines and about $3.2 billion in annual revenues. Windstream is ranked 4th in the 2009 BusinessWeek 50 ranking of the best performing U.S. companies. For more information about Windstream, visit www.windstream.com.
Pro forma results from current businesses adjusts results of operations under GAAP for the effects of merger and integration costs related to the acquisition of CT Communications, Inc. in 2007. A reconciliation of pro forma results from current businesses to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the following financial schedules.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Windstream's financial guidance for 2009, are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: further adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; continued access line loss; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the adoption of intercarrier compensation and/or universal service reforms by the Federal Communications Commission or Congress that results in a significant loss of revenue to Windstream; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstream's debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of federal and state
 
legislation, rules and regulations governing the communications industry; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unexpected results of litigation; unexpected rulings by state public service commissions in proceedings regarding universal service funds, intercarrier compensation or other matters that could reduce revenues or increase expenses; the effects of work stoppages; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; earnings on pension plan investments significantly below our expected long term rate of return for plan assets; and those additional factors under the caption "Risk Factors" in Windstream's Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com
Rob Clancy, 501-748-5550
rob.clancy@windstream.com
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME-Page 1
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING INFORMATION-Page 2
(Dollars in millions, except per customer amounts)
 
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS UNDER GAAP-Page 3
(In millions)
ASSETS
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS UNDER GAAP-Page 4
(In millions)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA
OIBDA FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 5
(In millions)
 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions that may cause results reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") to be not necessarily indicative of future results. On August 31, 2007, Windstream completed the acquisition of CT Communications, Inc. ("CTC"). Subsequently, on November 21, 2008, the Company completed the sale of the wireless business acquired from CTC. The completion of this transaction resulted in the divestiture of approximately 52,000 wireless customers, spectrum licenses and cell sites covering a four-county area in North Carolina with a population of 450,000, and six retail locations. Accordingly, we reported the operating results of the wireless business as discontinued operations. These changes and reclassifications did not impact operating or net income. As disclosed in the Windstream Form 8-K filed on May 8, 2009, the Company has presented in this earnings release unaudited pro forma results from current businesses, which excludes all merger and integration costs resulting from the transactions discussed above.
Windstream's purpose for including the results of the acquired businesses and for excluding non-recurring items is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2009, to the results of operations for the same period of 2008. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items excluded from pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available, and should be treated accordingly when evaluating the Company's operations. Management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods, and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses, including pro forma revenues and sales and pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, as a key measure of the operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes including: internal reporting, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
 
 
 


