FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20091222160358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Effective as of December 21, 2009, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream") entered into an amendment ("Amendment") to the Employment Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2008 ("Employment Agreement"), between Windstream and Jeffery R. Gardner, the President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of Windstream. The Amendment was approved by the Board of Directors of Windstream upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
After giving effect to the Amendment, if Windstream or its affiliates terminate Mr. Gardner's employment during the term of the Employment Agreement without "cause" (as defined in the agreement) or Mr. Gardner terminates his employment with Windstream or its affiliates for "good reason" (as defined in the agreement), then Windstream will pay to Mr. Gardner, in a lump sum, the following amounts: (i) his annual base salary through the date of termination and any other vested benefits, in each case to the extent not previously paid; and (ii) a severance benefit equal to three times his annual base salary. Prior to the Amendment, the severance benefit under the Employment Agreement was defined as an amount equal to (x) a pro-rated bonus based on the higher of his target annual bonus for the year of termination or the annual bonus earned for the immediately preceding year; and (y) two times his annual base salary.
The Amendment also amended the Employment Agreement to (i) extend the term of the Employment Agreement from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2012, (ii) specify the date of thirty days after termination of employment as the deadline by which Mr. Gardner must execute the form of release that is a condition to his receipt of severance benefits under the Employment Agreement, and (iii) clarify that the severance benefits are not payable until 10 business days after the deadline for Mr. Gardner to execute the form of release that is a condition to his receipt of severance benefits under the Employment Agreement. No other changes were made to the terms of the Employment Agreement.
The above description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Amendment which is attached as Exhibits 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
December 22, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
The Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 2008 between Windstream Corporation and Jeffery R. Gardner (the "Agreement") is amended, effective as of December 21, 2009, as follows:
1. The definitions in subsections 1.1, 1.3, and 1.16 of Section 1 of the Agreement are hereby deleted in their entirety and replaced with "RESERVED".
2. The definition of "Severance Benefits" contained in subsection 1.15 of the Agreement is hereby replaced and superseded in its entirety as follows:
"1.15 "Severance Benefits" shall mean a lump sum payment, in cash, equal to the Executive's annual Base Salary multiplied by three, which amount shall be in lieu of any severance benefits to which the Executive would otherwise be entitled under any severance plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement of the Windstream Group."
3. Section 2(B) of the Agreement is hereby amended by replacing, where appropriate, the date "December 31, 2009" with the date "December 31, 2012".
4. Section 7.5(B) of the Agreement is hereby replaced and superseded in its entirety as follows:
"(B) Upon a termination by Windstream other than for Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason under this Section 7.5 during the Term, Windstream shall pay or provide or cause another member of the Windstream Group to pay or provide to the Executive in full satisfaction of all amounts due (i) the Ordinary Termination Benefits in a single lump sum within 10 business days after the Termination Date, and (ii) the Severance Benefits in a single lump sum within 10 business days after the Release Deadline set forth in Section 7.6."
5. Section 7.6 of the Agreement is hereby replaced and superseded in its entirety as follows:
"7.6 .
Release
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, Windstream shall only be obligated to pay or provide Severance Benefits if the Executive timely executes and does not timely revoke a release of claims in the form attached hereto as (the "Release"). The Release must be signed by the Executive and become effective and irrevocable in accordance with its terms (taking into account any applicable revocation period set forth therein), within 30 days after the date of the Executive's Termination Date (the "Release Deadline")."
Exhibit A
6. Except as explicitly set forth herein, the Agreement will remain in full force and effect.
 
 


