FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20090929171915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
On September 29, 2009, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream") issued a press release announcing its intention to seek the consent of its lenders to a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Second Amendment and Restatement") to amend and restate Windstream's Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2007, as amended (the "Existing Agreement"). The Second Amendment and Restatement would amend and restate the Existing Agreement to, among other things, extend the maturities of the facilities, increase the interest rates on loans which have extended maturities and amend certain covenants to afford Windstream additional flexibility.
Windstream is proposing in the Second Amendment and Restatement that the maturities of its revolving facility and Tranche A loans be extended from July 2011 to July 2013. Windstream is also proposing that the maturity of Tranche B loans be extended from July 2013 to December 2015. Pursuant to the terms of the credit facilities, each lender must determine whether or not to extend the maturity of its individual loans.
The press release announcing commencement of the Second Amendment and Restatement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
September 29, 2009
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Windstream Seeks To Amend Existing Senior Secured Credit
Facilities
Release Date: Sept. 29, 2009
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corporation (NYSE: WIN) today announced that it is seeking the consent of lenders to amend and restate its existing senior secured credit facilities to, among other things, extend the maturities of the facilities, increase the interest rates on loans which have extended maturities and amend certain covenants. Pursuant to the terms of the credit facilities, each lender must determine whether or not to extend the maturity of its individual loans. The company expects to complete the amendment and restatement in the middle of October 2009.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC are serving as Joint Lead Arrangers on the transaction.
This news release is for informational purposes only and is not an offer to buy or the solicitation of an offer to sell any securities of Windstream.
About Windstream
Windstream Corporation is an S&P 500 company that provides phone, high-speed Internet and high-definition digital TV services to customers in 16 states. The company also offers a wide range of IP-based voice and data services and advanced phone systems and equipment to businesses and government agencies. The company has approximately 3 million access lines and about $3.1 billion in annual revenues. Windstream is ranked 4th in the 2009 BusinessWeek 50 ranking of the best performing U.S. companies.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: further adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of
 
Windstream Seeks To Amend Existing Senior Secured Credit Facilities
Page Two
 
competition in the communications business; continued access line loss; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the adoption of inter-carrier compensation and/or universal service reform proposals by the Federal Communications Commission or Congress that results in a significant loss of Windstream's revenue; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstream's debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of federal and state legislation, and rules and regulations governing the communications industry; material changes in the communications industry that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unexpected results of litigation; unexpected rulings by state public service commissions in proceedings regarding universal service funds, inter-carrier compensation or other matters that could reduce revenues or increase expenses; the effects of work stoppages; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; earnings on pension plan investments significantly below Windstream's expected long term rate of return for plan assets; unexpected results of relocation of Windstream's data center; and those additional factors under the caption "Risk Factors" in Windstream's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
www.sec.gov
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com
Rob Clancy, 501-748-5550
rob.clancy@windstream.com


