FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20090806073323.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
x
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On August 6, 2009, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's second quarter 2009 unaudited consolidated results of operations. The press release presents the Company's consolidated results of operations measured under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") and certain unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is defined as a numerical measure of a company's financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Company's financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions that may cause results reported under GAAP to be not necessarily indicative of future results. On May 10, 2009 the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of D&E Communications ("D&E"). Under the terms of the agreement, D&E shareholders will receive 0.650 shares of Windstream common stock and $5.00 in cash per each share of D&E common stock. The acquisition has received federal approval and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2009 subject to certain conditions, including necessary approvals from state regulators and D&E shareholders. On August 31, 2007, Windstream completed the acquisition of CT Communications, Inc. ("CTC"). Subsequently, on November 21, 2008, the Company completed the sale of the wireless business acquired from CTC. As a result of completing this transaction, we will have no significant continuing involvement in the operations or cash flows of the wireless business and accordingly, have reported the related operating results as discontinued operations. Additionally, certain amounts previously reported have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation of the consolidated financial statements. These changes and reclassifications did not impact operating or net income.
The press release includes a presentation of unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses that exclude merger and integration costs related to acquisitions and dispositions for each period presented compared to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Windstream's purpose for excluding these costs is to improve the comparability of results of operations for periods in 2008 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2009. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items excluded from the pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available, and should be treated accordingly when evaluating the Company's operations. The Company's presentation of pro forma results from current businesses includes restructuring charges, consisting primarily of severance expenses, as these types of expenses should not necessarily be viewed as non-recurring.
For these reasons, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
The Company's press release, and other communications from time to time, include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Company's financial statements by taking operating income and adding back depreciation and amortization expense. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses and pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusted for pension expense, which is also a non-GAAP measures. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Company's operating performance.
 
The Company's communications from time to time include a non-GAAP measure entitled net debt. Net debt is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents. The Company believes net debt provides useful information to investors about the Company's capital structure.
The Company will also from time to time include non-GAAP measures entitled "free cash flow" and "dividend payout ratio". Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided from operations less net cash used in the procurement of property, plant and equipment. The Company believes free cash flow provides the investor useful information about cash available to pay dividends. Dividend payout ratio is defined as dividends paid on common shares divided by free cash flow. The Company believes the dividend payout ratio provides the investor useful information about its remaining investable funds after the payment of dividends to shareholders.
 
On August 6, 2009, Windstream Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2009. The press release also included additional information related to the pending merger of Windstream Corporation and D&E Communications, Inc. A copy of the press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in Item 8.01 by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
August 6, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports second-quarter earnings results
 
Release date: Aug. 6, 2009
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corporation (NYSE: WIN) today reported second-quarter earnings results highlighted by continued solid cash generation.
Windstream also announced the Federal Communications Commission has approved the company's acquisition of D&E Communications announced on May 11. Windstream anticipates the proxy statement/prospectus it previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the acquisition will become effective and be mailed to D&E shareholders in approximately two weeks, after it is updated to reflect D&E and Windstream's financial results for the second quarter of 2009. D&E shareholders are expected to vote on the transaction in late September. Windstream anticipates closing the transaction in the fourth quarter of 2009 subject to approvals from D&E shareholders and the Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission.
"Our team continues to do an outstanding job managing expenses, and I am pleased that we sustained cash flows in a challenging economic environment," said Jeff Gardner, president and CEO. "We also are making progress on integration planning with D&E while the approval process for the transaction moves forward. D&E is a solid company and a good strategic and geographic fit with our Pennsylvania operations."
Windstream's second-quarter results under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include the following items, which lowered earnings per share by roughly 5 cents:
 
Windstream reports second-quarter earnings results
Page Two
 
Second-quarter financial results:
Under GAAP:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under pro forma results from current businesses:
 
The company generated approximately $208 million in free cash flow, which is defined as net cash from operations less capital expenditures, during the quarter and $360 million through the first six months of 2009. Windstream paid off the $150 million balance in its $500 million revolving credit agreement during the quarter and ended the period with $245 million in cash and cash equivalents.
Second-quarter operating results:
Windstream added approximately 15,000 new high-speed Internet customers during the second quarter, bringing its total broadband customer base to 1,025,000 customers, an increase of 10 percent year-over-year. Overall broadband penetration is now 35 percent of total access lines and residential broadband penetration is approximately 51 percent of primary residential lines.
 
Windstream reports second-quarter earnings results
Page Three
 
Windstream added more than 16,000 new digital TV customers in the quarter, bringing its total customer base to approximately 312,000, or 18 percent penetration of primary residential lines.
Total access lines declined by approximately 41,000. Total lines at the end of the quarter were 2.95 million, a decline of approximately 5.5 percent year-over-year.
Conference call
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CDT today to review the company's second-quarter earnings results.
To access the call:
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-877-835-5650, conference ID 17202018, 10 minutes prior to the start time.
To access the call replay:
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 8:30 a.m. CDT today and ending at midnight CDT on Sept. 6. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID 17202018.
Webcast information:
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the webcast will be available on the Web site beginning at 10:30 a.m. CDT today.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
This press release may be deemed to be solicitation material in respect of the proposed merger of D&E Communications and Windstream. In connection with the proposed transaction, Windstream has filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that includes a preliminary proxy statement of D&E and also constitutes a prospectus of Windstream. At the appropriate time, D&E will mail the definitive proxy statement/prospectus to its shareholders. Before making any voting or investment decision, investors are urged to read the definitive proxy statement/prospectus when it becomes available because it will contain important information about the proposed transaction. You may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC regarding this transaction, free of charge, at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Free copies of these documents may also be obtained from Windstream upon written request to Windstream Investor Relations, 4001 Rodney Parham Road, Little Rock, Arkansas 72212 or by calling
 
Windstream reports second-quarter earnings results
Page Four
 
(866) 320-7922, or from D&E Communications upon written request to D&E Communications, P.O. Box 458, Ephrata, Pennsylvania 17522, Attention: Corporate Secretary or by calling (877) 433-8632.
Windstream, D&E Communications, and their respective officers and directors may be deemed to be soliciting proxies from D&E Communications' shareholders in favor of the proposed merger. Information regarding Windstream and D&E Communications' respective directors and executive officers can be found in their respective Annual Reports on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC when they become available.
About Windstream
Windstream Corporation is an S&P 500 company that provides phone, high-speed Internet and high-definition digital TV services to customers in 16 states. The company also offers a wide range of IP-based voice and data services and advanced phone systems and equipment to businesses and government agencies. The company has approximately 3 million access lines and about $3.1 billion in annual revenues. Windstream is ranked 4th in the 2009 BusinessWeek 50 ranking of the best performing U.S. companies. For more information about Windstream, visit www.windstream.com.
Pro forma results from current businesses adjusts results of operations under GAAP for the effects of merger and integration costs related to the pending acquisition of D&E Communications and the acquisition of CT Communications, Inc. A reconciliation of pro forma results from current businesses to the comparable GAAP measures is available on the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: further adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; continued access line loss; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the adoption of intercarrier
 
Windstream reports second-quarter earnings results
Page Five
 
compensation and/or universal service reforms by the Federal Communications Commission or Congress that results in a significant loss of revenue to Windstream; the failure of D&E Communications shareholders to approve the merger; and the possibility that the merger does not close, including, but not limited to, due to the failure to satisfy other closing conditions; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstream's debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of federal and state legislation, rules and regulations governing the communications industry; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unexpected results of litigation; unexpected rulings by state public service commissions in proceedings regarding universal service funds, intercarrier compensation or other matters that could reduce revenues or increase expenses; the effects of work stoppages; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; earnings on pension plan investments significantly below our expected long term rate of return for plan assets; and those additional factors under the caption "Risk Factors" in Windstream's Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com
Rob Clancy, 501-748-5550
rob.clancy@windstream.com
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME-Page 1
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING INFORMATION-Page 2
(Dollars in millions, except per customer amounts)
 
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS UNDER GAAP-Page 3
(In millions)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS UNDER GAAP-Page 4
(In millions)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA
OIBDA FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 5
(In millions)
 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA RESULTS FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions that may cause results reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") to be not necessarily indicative of future results. On May 10, 2009 the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of D&E. Under the terms of the agreement, D&E shareholders will receive 0.650 shares of Windstream common stock and $5.00 in cash per each share of D&E common stock. The acquisition has received federal approval and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2009 subject to certain conditions, including necessary approvals from state regulators and D&E shareholders. On August 31, 2007, Windstream completed the acquisition of CT Communications, Inc. ("CTC"). Subsequently, on November 21, 2008, the Company completed the sale of the wireless business acquired from CTC. The completion of this transaction resulted in the divestiture of approximately 52,000 wireless customers, spectrum licenses and cell sites covering a four-county area in North Carolina with a population of 450,000, and six retail locations. Accordingly, we reported the operating results of the wireless business as discontinued operations. These changes and reclassifications did not impact operating or net income. As disclosed in the Windstream Form 8-K filed on August 6, 2009, the Company has presented in this earnings release unaudited pro forma results from current businesses, which excludes all merger and integration costs resulting from the transactions discussed above.
Windstream's purpose for excluding non-recurring items is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2009, to the results of operations for the same period of 2008. Windstream's purpose for these adjustments is to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Management believes the items excluded from pro forma results from current businesses are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available, and should be treated accordingly when evaluating the Company's operations. Management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods, and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses, including pro forma revenues and sales and pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, as a key measure of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes including: internal reporting, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
 
 


