FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20100805073046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 5, 2010, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's second quarter 2010 unaudited consolidated results of operations. The press release presents the Company's consolidated results of operations measured under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") and certain unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is defined as a numerical measure of a company's financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Company's financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Windstream Corporation has completed the following transactions that may cause results reported under GAAP to be not necessarily indicative of future results:
Acquisitions
 
 
 
 
Dispositions
 
The unaudited consolidated results from current businesses presented on a pro forma basis either include or exclude the following items when compared to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP:
Includes:
 
Excludes:
 
 
 
Windstream's purpose for including the preacquisition results of D&E, Lexcom, NuVox and Iowa Telecom and for excluding non-recurring items and the results of the disposed operations is to improve the comparability of results of operations for periods in 2009 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2010 in order to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services.
The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
The Company's press release, and other communications from time to time, include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Company's financial statements by taking operating income and adding back depreciation and amortization expense. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, which is also a non-GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Company's operating performance.
 
In addition, from time to time the Company's communications will also include the following non-GAAP measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
August 5, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports second-quarter earnings results
 
 
 
 
 
Release date: Aug. 5, 2010
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN) today reported second-quarter results highlighted by continued improvement in access line trends. The company also updated its financial guidance for the year following its acquisition of Iowa Telecommunications Services, Inc. ("Iowa Telecom") on June 1 and expects a lower dividend payout ratio of adjusted free cash flow.
Windstream also announced that eight of its 33 rural broadband stimulus applications were approved by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Utilities Service (RUS). The approved grants total approximately $67 million and require Windstream to invest an additional $22 million, or 25 percent of the expected project cost. The company's remaining 25 applications remain under evaluation by the RUS.
"Our business is performing very well, and we are on track to meet the operating and financial goals that we set earlier this year," said Jeff Gardner, Windstream president and CEO. "Our new Price for Life' bundles have been well-received by consumers and small businesses and are yielding continued improvement in our industry-leading access line trends.
"In addition, we completed the purchase of Iowa Telecom this quarter, the latest in a series of targeted acquisitions that do not significantly increase the risk profile of our business and that will enable us to lower our dividend payout ratio."
Gardner noted that Windstream passed its four-year anniversary in July.
"I am pleased with the transformation that Windstream has made from a traditional voice service provider to one focused on next-generation
broadband and business services," he said. "Our operational expertise and disciplined growth strategy have produced total shareholder returns of nearly 40 percent over the past four years  significantly better than that of our peer group and the overall market."
Windstream's second-quarter results under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include approximately $11 million in after-tax merger and integration costs, which lowered earnings per share by roughly 2 cents.
Second-quarter financial results:
Under GAAP:
 
 
 
 
Under pro forma results:
 
 
 
 
 
Adjusted free cash flow  defined as adjusted OIBDA, excluding merger and integration costs, minus cash interest, cash taxes and capital expenditures  was $198 million during the second quarter. Adjusted free cash flow is not pro forma and reflects NuVox, Inc. ("NuVox") and Iowa Telecom on an actual basis from the date the businesses were acquired.
Second-quarter pro forma operating results:
Windstream added approximately 14,800 new high-speed Internet customers during the second quarter, bringing its total customer base to approximately 1.27 million  an increase of 9 percent year-over-year. Overall broadband penetration is now 41 percent of total voice lines and 58 percent of primary residential lines.
Windstream also added more than 8,000 digital TV customers in the quarter, bringing its total customer base to approximately 420,000, or 21 percent penetration of primary residential lines.
Total access lines declined by approximately 34,000, resulting in a year-over-year decline of 3.7 percent. Total lines at the end of the year were 3.33 million.
In the business channel, advanced data and integrated solutions, which are largely connections providing both voice and data services, increased 1 percent.
Updated financial outlook for 2010
Windstream updated its pro forma financial guidance for 2010, which includes a full year for NuVox and Iowa Telecom:
 
 
 
 
The company expects to generate $770 million to $810 million in adjusted free cash flow in 2010, resulting in a dividend payout ratio between 57 percent and 60 percent. The company's previous guidance, prior to the close of the Iowa Telecom acquisition, projected $690 million to $765 million in adjusted free cash flow and a dividend payout ratio of 59 percent to 65 percent. The updated adjusted free cash flow guidance assumes expected net cash interest of approximately $494 million and cash taxes of $190 million to $210 million for 2010. Adjusted free cash flow is not pro forma and reflects NuVox and Iowa Telecom on an actual basis from the date the businesses were acquired.
Conference call
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CDT today to review the company's second-quarter earnings results.
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-877-374-3977, conference ID 85310441, ten minutes prior to the start time.
To access the call replay:
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. CDT today and ending at midnight CDT on Aug. 13. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID 85310441.
Webcast information:
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's website at www.windstream.com/investors. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the webcast will be available on the website beginning at 10:30 a.m. CDT today.
About Windstream
Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN), headquartered in Little Rock, Ark., is an S&P 500 company with communications operations in 23 states and about $4 billion in annual revenues. Windstream provides phone, high-speed Internet and high-definition digital TV services. The company also offers a wide range of IP-based voice and data services and advanced phone
systems and equipment to businesses and government agencies. For more information about Windstream, visit www.windstream.com.
Pro forma results adjusts results of operations under GAAP to include the acquisitions of D&E, Lexcom, NuVox and Iowa Telecom, and to exclude the results of the disposed out-of-territory production distribution operations and all merger and integration costs related to strategic transactions. For further details on these adjustments, see the Notes to Unaudited Reconciliation of Revenues and Sales and Operating Income Under GAAP to Pro Forma Revenues and Sales and Pro Forma Adjusted OIBDA.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for forward-looking statements set forth in this press release. Forward-looking statements, including Windstream's updated financial outlook for 2010, are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in Windstream's forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes.
Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in filings by Windstream with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
David.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME-Page 1
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING INFORMATION-Page 2
(Units in thousands, dollars in millions)
 
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS UNDER GAAP-Page 3
(In millions)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS UNDER GAAP-Page 4
(In millions)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF REVENUES AND SALES AND OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA (A)
REVENUES AND SALES AND PRO FORMA ADJUSTED OIBDA (NON-GAAP)-Page 5
(In millions)
 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF REVENUES AND SALES AND OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA REVENUES AND SALES AND PRO FORMA ADJUSTED OIBDA
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions that may cause results reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") to be not necessarily indicative of future results.
:
Completed Acquisitions
 
 
 
 
:
Dispositions
 
As disclosed in the Windstream Form 8-K filed on August 5, 2010, the Company has presented in this earnings release unaudited pro forma results, which includes results from D&E, Lexcom, NuVox and Iowa Telecom for periods prior to the acquisitions and excludes results from the out-of-territory product distribution operations prior to the disposition and all merger and integration ("M&I") costs resulting from the completed transactions discussed above. In addition to pro forma adjustments, the Company presented certain measures of its operating performance, excluding the impact of restructuring charges, pension and stock-based compensation.
Windstream's purpose for including the results of acquired businesses and for excluding non-recurring items, the results of disposed operations, restructuring charges, pension and stock-based compensation is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the six month period ended June 30, 2010, to the results of operations for the same period of 2009 in order to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Additionally, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods, and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results, including pro forma revenues and sales, pro forma OIBDA and pro forma adjusted OIBDA as key measures of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, consistently use these measures for internal reporting and the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: further adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; continued voice line loss; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the adoption of intercarrier compensation and/or universal service reforms by the Federal Communications Commission or Congress that results in a significant loss of revenue to Windstream; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstream's debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of federal and state legislation, rules and regulations governing the communications industry; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unfavorable results of litigation; unfavorable rulings by state public service commissions in proceedings regarding universal service funds, inter-carrier compensation or other matters that could reduce revenues or increase expenses; the effects of work stoppages; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; earnings on pension plan investments significantly below our expected long term rate of return for plan assets; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and rates; and those additional factors under the caption "Risk Factors" in Windstream's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


