FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20100218073042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 18, 2010, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's fourth quarter 2009 unaudited consolidated results of operations. The press release presents the Company's consolidated results of operations measured under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") and certain unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is defined as a numerical measure of a company's financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Company's financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Windstream Corporation has entered into the following pending and completed transactions that may cause results reported under GAAP to be not necessarily indicative of future results:
Pending Transactions
 
Completed Transactions
 
 
 
 
In addition, certain amounts previously reported have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation of the consolidated financial statements. These changes and reclassifications did not impact operating or net income.
The Company's press release includes a presentation of unaudited pro forma results of operations that either includes or excludes the following items when compared to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP:
Includes:
 
Excludes:
 
 
 
Windstream's purpose for including the preacquisition results of D&E and Lexcom and for excluding non-recurring items and the results of the disposed operations is to improve the comparability of results of operations for periods in 2008 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2009 in order to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, consistently use these measures for internal reporting and the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance.
 
The Company's press release, and other communications from time to time, include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Company's financial statements by taking operating income and adding back depreciation and amortization expense. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA, which is also a non-GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Company's operating performance.
In addition, from time to time the Company's communications will also include the following non-GAAP measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
February 18, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports fourth-quarter earnings results
 
 
 
 
 
Release date: Feb. 18, 2010
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corporation (NASDAQ: WIN) today reported fourth-quarter and full-year results highlighted by strong free cash flow growth and the lowest dividend payout ratio of free cash flow since the company was formed in 2006.
Free cash flow, defined as net cash provided from operations minus capital expenditures, was $288 million for the quarter and $823 million for the year, an increase of almost $60 million year-over-year, largely due to expense management initiatives and lower cash taxes. Windstream returned approximately $560 million, or 68 percent of its free cash flow, to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases in 2009. The company's dividend payout ratio of free cash flow was 53 percent for the year, the lowest rate in the company's history.
"I am very pleased with our performance for the quarter and all of 2009," said Jeff Gardner, Windstream president and CEO. "We significantly improved the company's strategic and competitive positions through very targeted acquisitions that will help us sustain revenue and cash flow over time. We also reduced our credit market risk by raising the capital needed to fund our announced acquisitions and extending the vast majority of our bank debt maturities.
"In spite of a tough economy, we improved key operating metrics and achieve our financial guidance for the year in two very important areas. We also further lowered our dividend payout ratio of free cash flow to enhance the sustainability of our dividend, which is so important to the total return to our stockholders," Gardner said.
Windstream's fourth-quarter results under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include the following items, which lowered earnings per share by roughly 8 cents:
 
 
 
 
Fourth-quarter financial results:
Under GAAP:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating income before depreciation and amortization, excluding merger and integration costs and restructuring charges and including results from D&E and Lexcom from the dates that they were acquired in the quarter, was $395 million.
Under pro forma results from current businesses, which include D&E and Lexcom results for the entire fourth quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
Full-year 2009 financial results:
Under GAAP:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under pro forma results from current businesses, which include D&E and Lexcom results for the entire year:
 
 
 
 
 
Windstream ended the year with $1.1 billion in cash and cash equivalents.
Fourth-quarter pro forma operating results:
Windstream added more than 27,000 new high-speed Internet customers during the fourth quarter, bringing its total customer base to approximately 1,132,000  an increase of 10 percent year-over-year. Overall broadband penetration is now 37 percent of total access lines and 55 percent of primary residential lines.
Windstream added approximately 10,000 digital TV customers in the quarter, bringing its total customer base to approximately 369,000, or 20 percent penetration of primary residential lines.
Total access lines declined by approximately 35,000, or 4.8 percent year-over-year  the lowest percentage change in the last five quarters. Total lines at the end of the year were 3.03 million.
Share repurchase plan:
Windstream repurchased 7.8 million shares for $78 million in the fourth quarter as previously reported under a $400 million share repurchase plan authorized by the board of directors in February 2008. Windstream repurchased a total of 29 million shares for $322 million under the share repurchase authorization, which expired at the end of 2009. With dividends and share repurchases, Windstream returned almost $560 million, or 68 percent of free cash flow, to shareholders in 2009.
Financial outlook for 2010
Windstream issued the following pro forma financial guidance for 2010, which includes a full year for NuVox:
 
 
Windstream expects to incur roughly $63 million in non-cash pension expense and about $14 million in restricted stock expense that will not affect free cash flow in 2010. Based on preliminary estimates, the company does not expect to be required to make any cash contribution to the pension plan in 2010.
The guidance assumes net cash interest of approximately $495 million and cash taxes of $195 million to $225 million for 2010.
The company expects to generate $690 million to $765 million in free cash flow in 2010, resulting in a dividend payout ratio between 59 percent and 65 percent.
"I think we are positioned well for a successful 2010 given our four recent acquisitions and related synergy benefits and the progress we are making transforming the company to pursue growth opportunities in broadband and the business customer segment," Gardner said.
Conference call
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CST today to review the company's fourth-quarter earnings results.
To access the call:
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-866-900-4729, conference ID 50897183, ten minutes prior to the start time.
To access the call replay:
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 9:30 a.m. CST today and ending at midnight CDT on March 18. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID 50897183.
Webcast information:
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the webcast will be available on the Web site beginning at 10:30 a.m. CST today.
About Windstream
Windstream Corporation is an S&P 500 company with about $3.7 billion in annual revenues. Windstream provides phone, high-speed Internet and high-definition digital TV services to customers in 21 states. The company also offers a wide range of IP-based voice and data services and advanced phone systems and equipment to businesses and government agencies. For more information about Windstream, visit www.windstream.com.
Pro forma results from current businesses adjusts results of operations under GAAP to include the acquisitions of D&E Communications, Inc. and Lexcom, Inc. and to exclude the results of the disposed out-of-territory product distribution operations, all merger and integration costs related to strategic transactions and the impairment charge recognized on assets held for sale. A reconciliation of pro forma results from current businesses to the comparable GAAP measures is available on the company's web site at www.windstream.com/investors.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our financial outlook for 2010; our expectation of no pension contribution in 2010, expected synergies and other benefits from completed and pending acquisitions, expected amount of cash taxes and net cash interest and forecasted capital expenditure amounts. These and other forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes.
Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in filings by Windstream with the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
www.sec.gov
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
David.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME-Page 1
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING INFORMATION-Page 2
(Dollars in millions, except per customer amounts; access lines and customers in thousands)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS UNDER GAAP-Page 3
(In millions)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS UNDER GAAP-Page 4
(In millions)
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF REVENUES AND SALES AND OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA (A)
REVENUES AND SALES AND PRO FORMA ADJUSTED OIBDA FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES (NON-GAAP)-Page 5
(In millions)
 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF REVENUES AND SALES AND OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA REVENUES AND SALES AND PRO FORMA ADJUSTED OIBDA FROM CURRENT BUSINESSES
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions that may cause results reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") to be not necessarily indicative of future results.
Pending Acquisition:
 
Completed Acquisitions:
 
 
 
Dispositions:
 
 
Other:
 
As disclosed in the Windstream Form 8-K filed on February 18, 2010, the Company has presented in this earnings release unaudited pro forma results from current businesses, which includes results from D&E and Lexcom for periods prior to the acquisitions and excludes (1) results from the out of territory product distribution operations prior to the disposition, (2) all merger and integration costs resulting from the completed and pending transactions discussed above and (3) the $6.5 million non-cash impairment charge for acquired assets held for sale. In addition to pro forma adjustments, the Company has made adjustments to exclude the impact of restructuring charges, pension and restricted stock expense.
Windstream's purpose for including the results of acquired businesses and for excluding non-recurring items, the results of disposed operations, restructuring charges, pension and restricted stock expense is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2009, to the results of operations for the same period of 2008 in order to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Additionally, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods, and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses, including pro forma revenues and sales, pro forma OIBDA and pro forma adjusted OIBDA as key measures of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, consistently use these measures for internal reporting and the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance.
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
RECONCILIATIONS OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 


