FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20100921150912.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On September 17, 2010, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream") announced that it had received consent from the requisite lenders to amend certain provisions of its existing senior secured credit facilities. Pursuant to that certain Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement and Amendment No. 1 to Security Agreement, dated as of September 17, 2010, by and among Windstream and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the consenting lenders (the "Amendment"), Windstream amended its existing credit agreement and security agreement to, among other things, modify certain definitions, covenants, and other provisions of the credit agreement and the security agreement in order to facilitate Windstream's participation in the Broadband Initiatives Program administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Utilities Service. In addition, the Amendment provides for an increase in the aggregate amount of the incremental loans and secured debt permitted under the senior secured credit facilities from $800 million to $1.6 billion and permits the extension of Windstream's Tranche B-1 term loans to the extent not previously extended.
pari passu
The foregoing description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the press release announcing the Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which is the administrative agent and collateral agent under Windstream's senior secured credit facilities, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., which served as lead arranger on the Amendment and is a joint bookrunner and lead arranger under the senior secured credit facilities and an affiliate of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., certain of the other lenders under Windstream's senior secured credit facilities, and certain of their respective affiliates have performed or may in the future perform various commercial banking, lending, investment banking, financial advisory, trustee, hedging, or other services for Windstream and its subsidiaries and affiliates, for which they have received or will receive fees and reimbursement of expenses.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Forward Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: further adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; continued voice line loss; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the adoption of intercarrier compensation and/or universal service reform proposals by the Federal Communications Commission or Congress that results in a significant loss of revenue to Windstream; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; for Windstream's competitive local exchange carrier operations, adverse effects on the availability, quality of service and price of facilities and services provided by other incumbent local exchange carriers on which Windstream's competitive local exchange carrier services depend; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstream's debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of
federal and state legislation, and rules and regulations governing the communications industry; material changes in the communications industry that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unfavorable results of litigation; unfavorable rulings by state public service commissions in proceedings regarding universal service funds, inter carrier compensation or other matters that could reduce revenues or increase expenses; the effects of work stoppages; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; earnings on pension plan investments significantly below Windstream's expected long term rate of return for plan assets; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and rates; and those additional factors under the caption "Risk Factors" in Windstream's Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009, and in subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 21, 2010

Exhibit 10.1
AMENDMENT NO. 1 (this "") dated as of September 17, 2010 to (i) the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 19, 2009 (the "") among Windstream Corporation (the ""), the lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent (the ""), and Citibank, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as co-documentation agents (the "") and (ii) the Security Agreement dated as of July 17, 2006 (the "") among the Borrower (formerly known as Alltel Holding Corp.), the guarantors party thereto and the Administrative Agent, as collateral agent.
Amendment
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
Co-Documentation Agents
Security Agreement
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend certain provisions of the Credit Agreement and the Security Agreement, as provided herein;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 1. Unless otherwise defined herein, each term used herein which is defined in the Credit Agreement has the meaning assigned to such term in the Credit Agreement. Each reference to "hereof", "hereunder", "herein" and "hereby" and each other similar reference and each reference to "this Agreement" and each other similar reference contained in the Credit Agreement shall, after the amendments herein become effective, refer to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
Defined Terms; References.
Section 2.
Amendments to the Credit Agreement.
(a) Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following new definitions in appropriate alphabetical order:
"" means, as of any date, the principal amount of Indebtedness of the Wireline Companies outstanding as of such date, determined on a consolidated basis, that is secured by a Lien on the assets of any such Wireline Company; that, for purposes of this definition, the term "Indebtedness" will not include (i) contingent obligations of any Wireline Company as an account party or applicant in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty, unless such letter of credit or letter of guaranty supports an obligation that constitutes Indebtedness of a Person other than a Wireline Company, (ii) any obligation constituting Indebtedness pursuant to clause (j) of the definition thereof, (iii) any Earn-out Obligation or obligation in respect of
Consolidated Secured Debt
provided
purchase price adjustment permitted pursuant to Section 6.01(a)(xvi) and (iv) any bonds or similar instruments in the nature of surety, performance, appeal or similar bonds.
"" means any RUS Grant Funds, any RUS Pledged Deposit Account (as defined in the Security Agreement), any assets purchased with RUS Grant Funds and any proceeds of the foregoing.
Excluded RUS Grant Assets
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.01(g)(i).
Incremental Pari Passu Indebtedness
"" means the United States of America, acting through the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service, and its successors.
RUS
"" means the Broadband Initiatives Program Grant and Security Agreements by and among the Borrower, certain Subsidiaries of the Borrower and the RUS, substantially in the form delivered to the Administrative Agent prior to the Second ARCA First Amendment Effective Date as modified by the RUS Approval Letter dated September 14, 2010, with such changes as (i) shall be consented to by the Required Lenders or (ii) taken as a whole, shall not be materially adverse to the Lenders or the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
RUS Grant and Security Agreements
"" means any funds disbursed by the RUS to any RUS Grantee pursuant to a RUS Grant and Security Agreement.
RUS Grant Funds
"" means the Borrower and any Subsidiary which is party to a RUS Grant and Security Agreement.
RUS Grantee
"" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 17, 2010 to this Agreement and the Security Agreement.
Second ARCA First Amendment Effective Date
"" means, on any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Secured Debt as of such day to (b) Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for the period of four consecutive Fiscal Quarters ended on such day (or, if such day is not the last day of a Fiscal Quarter, ended on the last day of the Fiscal Quarter most recently ended before such day).
Secured Leverage Ratio
(b) The definition of Capital Expenditures in Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by (i) deleting "or" immediately before clause (ii) thereto and (ii) inserting the word "or" and the following new clause (iii) immediately after clause (ii) of that definition:
"(iii) any capital expenditure paid for with RUS Grant Funds."
 
(c) Section 2.01(g)(i) is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(i) At any time and from time to time prior to the Tranche B-2 Maturity Date, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (whereupon the Administrative Agent shall promptly deliver a copy to each of the Lenders), request to add one or more additional tranches of loans ("" and each such tranche, an ""), that at the time of each such request and upon the effectiveness of each Incremental Facility Amendment, (A) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or shall result therefrom, (B) the Borrower shall be in compliance on a Pro Forma Basis with the covenants contained in Sections 6.14 and 6.15 recomputed as of the last day of the most-recently ended Fiscal Quarter for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b), (C) if the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Permitted Pari Passu Indebtedness incurred since the Second ARCA Effective Date and (ii) all commitments, loans and other extensions of credit made available under the Incremental Facilities since the Second ARCA Effective Date (all such Permitted Pari Passu Indebtedness and commitments, loans and extensions of credit incurred or made available since the Second ARCA Effective Date, ""), other than (x) any Incremental Pari Passu Indebtedness the proceeds of which are applied to refinance outstanding Term Loans and (y) any Permitted Pari Passu Indebtedness the proceeds of which are applied to refinance outstanding Permitted Pari Passu Indebtedness, shall exceed $800,000,000, the Secured Leverage Ratio on a Pro Forma Basis computed as of the last day of the most recently-ended Fiscal Quarter for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b) shall not exceed 2.25 to 1.0, and (D) the Borrower shall have delivered a certificate of a Financial Officer to the effect set forth in clauses (A), (B) and, if applicable, (C), above, together with reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with clauses (B) and, if applicable, (C), above. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the aggregate principal amount of all Incremental Pari Passu Indebtedness, other than (x) any Incremental Pari Passu Indebtedness the proceeds of which are applied to refinance outstanding Term Loans and (y) any Permitted Pari Passu Indebtedness the proceeds of which are applied to refinance outstanding Permitted Pari Passu Indebtedness, shall not exceed $1,600,000,000. Each Incremental Facility shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of
Incremental Loans
Incremental Facility
provided
Incremental Pari Passu Indebtedness
 
$5,000,000 and not less than $50,000,000, that an Incremental Facility may be in any amount less than $50,000,000 if such amount represents all the remaining availability under the Incremental Facilities pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence."
provided
(d) Section 2.01(g)(ii) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by (i) replacing the words "and (2)" immediately after Clause (B)(1) of the second sentence with the following:
", (2) may be effected by increasing the Revolving Commitments then having a commitment availability period ending on the latest Revolving Maturity Date and (3)"
(e) Section 2.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following new paragraph (i) immediately after paragraph (h):
(i) . (i) At any time after the Second ARCA First Amendment Effective Date, the Borrower may request that any Tranche B-1 Lender convert all or a portion of its Tranche B-1 Term Loans into Tranche B-2 Term Loans. Any Tranche B-1 Lender wishing to agree to such a conversion shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a duly completed Conversion Agreement. Upon the acceptance by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower of such Conversion Agreement, the Tranche B-1 Term Loans of such Tranche B-1 Lender specified therein shall be converted into an equal principal amount of Tranche B-2 Term Loans.
Additional Conversions of Tranche B-1 Term Loans
(ii) The initial Interest Period applicable to each Tranche B-2 Term Loan resulting from the conversion of a Tranche B-1 Term Loan pursuant to clause (i) above that is a Eurodollar Loan shall be the then-current Interest Period applicable to the Tranche B-1 Term Loan from which it is converted with no conversion into a different Interest Period, payment or prepayment of such Tranche B-1 Term Loan being deemed to have occurred solely due to such conversion.
(iii) On a quarterly basis, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of the aggregate amount of Tranche B-1 Term Loans that have been converted into Tranche B-2 Term Loans pursuant to this Section 2.01(i) during the preceding quarter.
(f) Section 5.01(f) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the words "or (ii), with the following:
", (ii) copies of any statement or report furnished to RUS in connection with the RUS Grant and Security Agreement or (iii)"
 
(g) Section 5.11(b) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "(other than any real property or improvements thereto or any interest therein)" in that section and replacing it with:
"(other than (i) any real property or improvements thereto or any interest therein, (ii) any RUS Grant Funds or (iii) any asset purchased with RUS Grant Funds and any proceeds thereof)"
(h) Section 6.01(a)(xviii) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"(xviii) Permitted Pari Passu Indebtedness; that the aggregate principal amount of all Incremental Pari Passu Indebtedness, other than (x) Incremental Pari Passu Indebtedness the proceeds of which are applied to refinance outstanding Term Loans and (y) any Permitted Pari Passu Indebtedness the proceeds of which are applied to refinance outstanding Permitted Pari Passu Indebtedness, shall not exceed $1,600,000,000; , that if at the time of incurrence of any Permitted Pari Passu Indebtedness the aggregate principal amount of all Incremental Pari Passu Indebtedness other than (x) any Incremental Pari Passu Indebtedness the proceeds of which are applied to refinance outstanding Term Loans and (y) any Permitted Pari Passu Indebtedness the proceeds of which are applied to refinance outstanding Permitted Pari Passu Indebtedness shall exceed $800,000,000, (1) the Secured Leverage Ratio on a Pro Forma Basis computed as of the last day of the most recently-ended Fiscal Quarter for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b) shall not exceed 2.25 to 1.0 and (2) the Borrower shall have delivered a certificate of a Financial Officer to the effect set forth in the preceding clause (1), together with reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with the preceding clause (1)."
provided
provided further
(i) Section 6.02 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by (i) deleting the word "and" immediately after clause (n) of that section and (ii) inserting the word "and" and the following new clause (p) immediately after clause (o) of that section:
"(p) Liens on Excluded RUS Grant Assets in favor of RUS granted pursuant to a RUS Grant and Security Agreement; that aggregate amount of RUS Grant Funds shall not exceed $275,000,000"
provided
(j) Section 6.10 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by (i) deleting the word "and" immediately after clause (vii) of the proviso in that section and (ii) inserting the word "and" and the following new clause (ix) immediately after clause (viii) of the proviso in that section:
"(ix) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions or conditions imposed by the RUS Grant and Security Agreements if such restrictions or conditions apply only to Excluded RUS Grant Assets."
 
(k) Exhibit G to the Credit Agreement is amended by replacing each reference to "Tranche A" with "[Tranche A] [Tranche B-1]."
Section 3. .
Amendments to the Security Agreement
(a) Section 1(c) of the Security Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following new definition in appropriate alphabetical order:
"" means any deposit account of a RUS Grantee that is required to be pledged to the RUS under a RUS Grant and Security Agreement, but only if such deposit account holds only (i) RUS Grant Funds and (ii) additional funds required to be contributed by the Grantees under the RUS Grant and Security Agreement, such amount not to exceed 25% of the average aggregate amount of funds under clauses (i) and (ii) of this definition.
RUS Pledged Deposit Account
(b) Section 2(a)(iii) of the Security Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"(iii) all Deposit Accounts (other than RUS Pledged Deposit Accounts);"
(c) Section 2(a) of the Security Agreement is hereby amended by (i) deleting the word "and" immediately after clause (C) of the proviso to that section and (ii) inserting the word "and" and the following new clause (E) immediately after clause (D) of that section:
"(E) any assets encumbered by liens permitted by Sections 6.02(e) and 6.02(p) of the Credit Agreement."
(d) Section 7(a) of the Security Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following proviso at the end of the first sentence thereof:
" that this Section 7(a) shall not apply to any cash held in a RUS Pledged Deposit Account that is required to be so held pursuant to the RUS Grant and Security Agreement."
provided
(e) The subclause in Section 13(a) of the Security Agreement starting with the word "second" is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"", to pay the unpaid principal of the Secured Obligations and any breakage, termination or other payments due under Swap Agreements and Cash Management Agreements (including without limitation, but only to the extent of, any cash constituting, or proceeds of, Restricted Collateral, the Secured Bond Obligations secured thereby), ratably (or provide for the payment thereof pursuant to Section 13(b), including without limitation in respect of the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit or the obligations to make payments under Swap Agreements that cannot be quantified at such time), until payment in full of the principal of all such Secured Obligations shall have been made (or so provided for);
second
 
Section 4. . (a) The Borrower represents and warrants that, after giving effect to this Amendment, (i) the representations and warranties contained in the Loan Documents that are qualified by materiality are true and correct, and the representations and warranties that are not so qualified are true and correct in all material respects, in each case as though made on and as of the date hereof (other than with respect to any representation and warranty that expressly relates to an earlier date, in which case such representation and warrant is true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date) and (ii) no Default has occurred and is continuing as of the date hereof.
Representations Correct; No Default
(b) The Borrower represents and warrants, on and as of the date hereof, that (i) it has the requisite power to execute and deliver this Amendment, and all corporate or other action required to be taken by it for the due and proper authorization, execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment has been duly and validly taken; (ii) this Amendment has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and (iii) no material Governmental Authorization is or will be required in connection with the execution and delivery of this Amendment.
(c) The Borrower represents and warrants that this Amendment constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and except as enforceability may be limited by general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Section 5. . This Amendment may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment by telefacsimile or electronic transmission (in PDF format) shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Counterparts
 
Section 6. . Without limiting the obligations of Borrower under the Credit Agreement, the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent all of the Administrative Agent's reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, paid or payable in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution and delivery of this Amendment, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing.
Costs and Expenses
Section 7. . (a) This Amendment shall become effective as of the date hereof on the date (the "") when the Administrative Agent shall have received:
Effectiveness
Second ARCA First Amendment Effective Date
(i) duly executed counterparts hereof signed by the Borrower and the Required Lenders (or, in the case of any Lender as to which an executed counterpart shall not have been received, the Administrative Agent shall have received facsimile or other written confirmation from such party of execution of a counterpart hereof by such Lender);
(ii) each Loan Party not a party hereto shall have entered into a reaffirmation agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent; and
(iii) with respect to each Lender that shall have delivered a signed counterpart hereof to the Administrative Agent as set forth in clause (i) above at or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on September 16, 2010, an amendment fee payable by the Borrower for the account of each such Lender in an amount equal to 0.10% of the sum of such Lender's Revolving Commitment (if any, and whether used or unused) and the principal amount of such Lender's Term Loans outstanding on such date.
(b) Except as expressly set forth herein, the amendment contained herein shall not constitute a waiver or amendment of any term or condition of the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, and all such terms and conditions shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
Section 8. . THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the date and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Company Release - 09/17/2010 16:15
LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Sept. 17, 2010 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE)  Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq:WIN) today announced that it received consent from requisite lenders to amend certain provisions of its existing senior secured credit facilities.
The amendment, which is effective today, permits the signing of rural broadband stimulus grant agreements with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Utilities Service. The company also, among other things, received authorization to increase its senior secured leverage capacity.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. served as Lead Arranger on the amendment.
This news release is for informational purposes only and is not an offer to buy or the solicitation of an offer to sell any securities of Windstream.
About Windstream
Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq:WIN), headquartered in Little Rock, Ark., is an S&P 500 company with communications operations in 23 states and about $4 billion in annual revenues. Windstream provides phone, high-speed Internet and high-definition digital TV services. The company also offers a wide range of IP-based voice and data services and advanced phone systems and equipment to businesses and government agencies. For more information about Windstream, visit .
www.windstream.com
The Windstream Corporation logo is available at
http://www.globenewswire.com/newsroom/prs/?pkgid=7044
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for forward-looking statements set forth in this press release. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in Windstream's forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes.
Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in filings by Windstream with the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
www.sec.gov
CONTACT: Windstream Corporation
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery
    501-748-5876
    david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contact:
Mary Michaels
    501-748-7578
    mary.michaels@windstream.com


