FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20100505152335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 5, 2010, Windstream Corporation ("Windstream" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's first quarter 2010 unaudited consolidated results of operations. The press release presents the Company's consolidated results of operations measured under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") and certain unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is defined as a numerical measure of a company's financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Company's financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Windstream Corporation has entered into the following pending and completed transactions that may cause results reported under GAAP to be not necessarily indicative of future results:
Pending Transactions
Completed Transactions
The Company's press release includes a presentation of unaudited pro forma results of operations that either includes or excludes the following items when compared to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP:
Includes:
Excludes:
Windstream's purpose for including the preacquisition results of D&E, Lexcom and NuVox and for excluding non-recurring items and the results of the disposed operations is to improve the comparability of results of operations for periods in 2009 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2010 in order to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services.
The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
The Company's press release, and other communications from time to time, include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Company's financial statements by taking operating income and adding back depreciation and amortization expense. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, which is also a non-GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Company's operating performance.
 
In addition, from time to time the Company's communications will also include the following non-GAAP measures:
Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed merger of Windstream and Iowa Telecom, Windstream has filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the SEC that contains a proxy statement/prospectus. Iowa Telecom investors and security holders are advised to read the proxy statement/prospectus and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC because these documents contain important information about Iowa Telecom, Windstream and the proposed merger. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus available at the SEC's Web site at www.sec.gov. Free copies of the proxy statement/prospectus may also be obtained from Windstream upon written request to Windstream investor Relations, 4001 Rodney Parham Road, Little Rock, AR 72212 or by calling (866) 320-7922, or from Iowa Telecom upon written request to Iowa Telecommunications Services, Inc., 403 W. Fourth Street North, Newton, IA 50208 or by calling 1-641-787-2089.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
May 5, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports first-quarter earnings results
 
Release date: May 5, 2010
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN) today reported first-quarter earnings results highlighted by improving revenue and access line trends.
"I am very pleased with our results for the first quarter. Many of our key operating metrics continued to improve, and we delivered solid financial results with improving revenue trends, which is important to sustaining cash flows over the long term," said Jeff Gardner president and chief executive officer. "Progress integrating our recent acquisitions remains on track and in-line with our expectations. We expect to close the acquisition of Iowa Telecom by the end of the second quarter pending FCC approval, which is the last remaining regulatory review needed."
Windstream's first-quarter results under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include $14 million in after-tax merger and integration costs, which lowered earnings per share by roughly 3 cents:
First-quarter financial results:
Under GAAP:
 
 
 
Under pro forma results:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First-quarter operating results:
Windstream added approximately 36,000 new high-speed Internet customers during the first quarter, bringing its total broadband customer base to approximately 1.17 million customers, an increase of 10 percent year-over-year. Overall broadband penetration is now 40 percent of voice lines, and residential broadband penetration is approximately 57 percent of primary residential lines.
Windstream added more than 12,000 new digital TV customers in the quarter, bringing its total customer base to approximately 382,000, or 21 percent penetration of primary residential lines.
Total access lines declined by approximately 23,000. Total lines at the end of the quarter were 3.1 million, a decline of approximately 3.9 percent year-over-year resulting in the lowest percentage loss the company has reported.
In the business channel, advanced data and integrated solutions, which consists of voice and data connections, increased almost 2 percent, largely the result of the continued growth in the former NuVox markets.
Conference call
Windstream will hold a conference call at 4:30 p.m. CDT today to review the company's first-quarter earnings results.
To access the call:
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-866-700-0133, conference ID 39320578, ten minutes prior to the start time.
To access the call replay:
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 7:30 p.m. CDT today and ending at midnight CDT on May 13. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-888-286-8010, conference ID 77396439.
Webcast information:
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's website at www.windstream.com/investors. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the webcast will be available on the website beginning at 7:30 p.m. CDT today.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed merger of Windstream and Iowa Telecom, Windstream has filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the SEC that contains a proxy statement/prospectus. Iowa Telecom investors and security holders are advised to read the proxy statement/prospectus and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC because these documents contain important information about Iowa Telecom, Windstream and the proposed merger. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus available at the SEC's Web site at www.sec.gov. Free copies of the proxy statement/prospectus may also be obtained from Windstream upon written request to Windstream investor Relations, 4001 Rodney Parham Road, Little Rock, AR 72212 or by calling (866) 320-7922, or from Iowa Telecom upon written request to Iowa Telecommunications Services, Inc., 403 W. Fourth Street North, Newton, IA 50208 or by calling 1-641-787-2089.
About Windstream
Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN), headquartered in Little Rock, Ark., is an S&P 500 company with communications operations in 21 states and about $3.7 billion in annual revenues. Windstream provides phone, high-speed Internet and high-definition digital TV services. The company also offers a wide range of IP-based voice and data services and advanced phone
systems and equipment to businesses and government agencies. For more information about Windstream, visit www.windstream.com.
Pro forma results adjusts results of operations under GAAP to include the acquisitions of D&E Communications, Inc., Lexcom, Inc. and NuVox, Inc., and to exclude the results of the disposed out-of-territory product distribution operations and all merger and integration costs related to strategic transactions. A reconciliation of pro forma results to the comparable GAAP measures is available on the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes.
Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in filings by Windstream with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME-Page 1
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING INFORMATION-Page 2
(Voice lines and customer connections in thousands, dollars in millions)
 
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS UNDER GAAP-Page 3
(In millions)
ASSETS
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS UNDER GAAP-Page 4
(In millions)
 
 
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF REVENUES AND SALES AND OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA (A) REVENUES AND SALES AND PRO FORMA ADJUSTED OIBDA (NON-GAAP)-Page 5
(In millions)
 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF REVENUES AND SALES AND OPERATING INCOME UNDER GAAP TO PRO FORMA REVENUES AND SALES AND PRO FORMA ADJUSTED OIBDA
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions that may cause results reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") to be not necessarily indicative of future results.
:
Pending Acquisition
 
:
Completed Acquisitions
 
 
 
:
Dispositions
 
As disclosed in the Windstream Form 8-K filed on May 5, 2010, the Company has presented in this earnings release unaudited pro forma results, which includes results from D&E, Lexcom and NuVox for periods prior to the acquisitions and excludes (1) results from the out-of-territory product distribution operations prior to the disposition and (2) all merger and integration ("M&I") costs resulting from the completed and pending transactions discussed above. In addition to pro forma adjustments, the Company has made adjustments to exclude the impact of restructuring charges, pension and stock-based compensation.
Windstream's purpose for including the results of acquired businesses and for excluding non-recurring items, the results of disposed operations, restructuring charges, pension and stock-based compensation is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the three month period ended March 31, 2010, to the results of operations for the same period of 2009 in order to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Additionally, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods, and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results, including pro forma revenues and sales, pro forma OIBDA and pro forma adjusted OIBDA as key measures of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, consistently use these measures for internal reporting and the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


