FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20110427154024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On April 27, 2011, Windstream Corporation (Windstream) received consent from the requisite lenders to amend certain provisions of its existing senior secured credit facilities. Pursuant to that certain Amendment No. 2 to Credit Agreement, dated as of April 27, 2011, by and among Windstream and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the consenting lenders (the Amendment), Windstream amended its existing credit agreement to, among other things, extend the maturity date of its revolving loans to December 17, 2015, modify the interest rate with respect to revolving loans so that it fluctuates based on Windstream's leverage, and allow for repayment of certain indebtedness of up to $750 million without reducing the basket for Available Distributable Cash (as defined in the credit agreement).
 
The foregoing description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the press release announcing the Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which is the administrative agent and collateral agent under Windstreams senior secured credit facilities, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., which served as lead arranger on the Amendment and is a joint bookrunner and lead arranger under the senior secured credit facilities and an affiliate of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., certain of the other lenders under Windstreams senior secured credit facilities, and certain of their respective affiliates have performed or may in the future perform various commercial banking, lending, investment banking, financial advisory, trustee, hedging, or other services for Windstream and its subsidiaries and affiliates, for which they have received or will receive fees and reimbursement of expenses.
Item 2.03.  Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
The information in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: further adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; continued access line loss; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the adoption of inter-carrier compensation and/or universal service reform proposals by the Federal Communications Commission or Congress that results in a significant loss of revenue to Windstream; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; for Windstream's competitive local exchange carrier operations, adverse effects on the availability, quality of service and price of facilities and services provided by other incumbent local exchange carriers on which Windstream's competitive local exchange carrier services depend; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstreams debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of federal and state legislation, and rules and regulations governing the communications industry; material changes in the communications industry that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment
 
 
 
 
 
 
and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unfavorable results of litigation; unfavorable rulings by state public service commissions in proceedings regarding universal service funds, inter-carrier compensation or other matters that could reduce revenues or increase expenses; the effects of work stoppages; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; earnings on pension plan investments significantly below Windstreams expected long term rate of return for plan assets; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and rates; and those additional factors under the caption Risk Factors in Windstreams Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and in subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstreams actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstreams future results included in Windstreams filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Item 9.01.  Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 27, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
AMENDMENT NO. 2 (this ) dated as of April 27, 2011 to the Second Amended and Restated
Amendment
Credit Agreement dated as of October 19, 2009 (as amended prior to the date hereof, the 
Credit Agreement
) among Windstream Corporation (the 
Borrower
), the lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent (the 
Administrative Agent
), and Citibank, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as co-documentation agents (the 
Co-Documentation Agents
).
 
 
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend certain provisions of the Credit Agreement, as provided herein;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
SECTION 1.  .  Unless otherwise defined herein, each term used herein which is defined in the Credit Agreement has the meaning assigned to such term in the Credit Agreement.  Each reference to hereof, hereunder, herein and hereby and each other similar reference and each reference to this Agreement and each other similar reference contained in the Credit Agreement shall, after the amendments herein become effective, refer to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
Defined Terms; References
 
SECTION 2
.  
Amendments to the Credit Agreement
.
 
              (a)    
Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following new definitions in appropriate alphabetical order:
 
     means, with respect to 2015 Eurodollar Revolving Loans and 2015 ABR Revolving Loans on any day, the percentage per annum corresponding to the Leverage Ratio on such day as set forth in the table below:
Applicable Revolving Rate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    For purposes of the foregoing, (i) the Applicable Revolving Rate shall be determined as of the end of each Fiscal Quarter based upon the Borrowers annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b) and (ii) each change in the Applicable Revolving Rate resulting from a change in the Leverage Ratio shall be effective during the period commencing on and including the date of delivery to the Administrative Agent of such consolidated financial statements indicating such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change, that, at the option of the Administrative Agent (or at the request of the Required Revolving Lenders), the Leverage Ratio shall be deemed to be in Category 1 if the Borrower fails to deliver the annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements required to be delivered by it pursuant to  Sections 5.01(a) and (b), during the period from the expiration of the time for delivery thereof until such consolidated financial statements are delivered.
provided
 
     shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Amendment No. 2 dated as of April 27, 2011 to this Agreement.
Second ARCA Second Amendment Effective Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
       means, for any day, the following percentages per annum:
Applicable Rate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3.  (a) The Borrower represents and warrants that, after giving effect to this Amendment, (i) the representations and warranties contained in the Loan Documents that are qualified by materiality are true and correct, and the representations and warranties that are not so qualified are true and correct in all material respects, in each case as though made on and as of the date hereof (other than with respect to any representation and warranty that expressly relates to an earlier date, in which case such representation and warrant is true and correct in all material respects as of such
.  Representations Correct; No Default
 
 
 
 
 
earlier date) and (ii) no Default has occurred and is continuing as of the date hereof.
 
 
SECTION 4.  .   This Amendment may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment by telefacsimile or electronic transmission (in PDF format) shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Counterparts
 
SECTION 5.  .  Without limiting the obligations of Borrower under the Credit Agreement, the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent all of the Administrative Agents reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, paid or payable in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution and delivery of this Amendment, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing.
Costs and Expenses
 
SECTION 6.  .  (a) This Amendment shall become effective as of the date hereof on the date (the ) when the Administrative Agent shall have received:
Effectiveness
Second ARCA Second Amendment Effective Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 7.  .  THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
 
 
 
 
 
 
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the date and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Windstream amends its credit facility
Release Date: April 27, 2011
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN) announced today that it has successfully amended its senior secured revolving credit facility to, among other things, extend the revolving maturity date to December 2015.
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., serves as administrative agent.
This press release is for informational purposes only and is not an offer to buy or the solicitation of an offer to sell any securities of Windstream.
About Windstream
Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN), headquartered in Little Rock, Ark., is an S&P 500 communications and technology solutions provider with operations in 29 states and the District of Columbia and about $4 billion in annual revenues. Windstream provides IP-based voice and data services, MPLS networking, data center and managed hosting services and communication systems to businesses and government agencies. The company also delivers broadband, digital phone and high-definition TV services to residential customers primarily located in rural areas and operates a local and long-haul fiber network spanning approximately 60,000 route miles.
For more information about Windstream, visit
www.windstream.com
.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for forward-looking statements set forth in this press release. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in Windstream's forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes.
Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstreams actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstreams future results included in filings by Windstream with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com


