FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20111104073122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM
8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 4, 2011
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(501) 748-7000
Registrants telephone number, including area code
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 4, 2011, Windstream Corporation (Windstream or the Company) issued a press release announcing the Companys third quarter 2011 unaudited consolidated results of operations. The press release presents the Companys consolidated results of operations measured under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) and certain unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. A non-GAAP financial measure is defined as a numerical measure of a companys financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Companys financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Windstream Corporation has completed the following transactions that may cause results reported under GAAP to be not necessarily indicative of future results:
Pending Acquisitions:
Completed Acquisitions:
The unaudited consolidated results from current businesses presented on a pro forma basis either include or exclude the following items when compared to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP:
Includes:
Excludes:
Windstreams purpose for including the preacquisition results of NuVox, Iowa Telecom, Hosted Solutions and Q-Comm and for excluding merger and integration costs is to improve the comparability of results of operations for periods in 2010 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2011 in order to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services.
The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
The Companys press release, and other communications from time to time, include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Companys financial statements by taking operating income and adding back depreciation and amortization expense. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, which is also a non-GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Companys operating performance.
1
In addition, from time to time the Companys communications will also include the following non-GAAP measures:
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
November 4, 2011
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
4

Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports third-quarter results
Release date: Nov. 4, 2011
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. - Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN) reported higher business and broadband revenue year-over-year on a pro forma basis in third-quarter earnings results released today.
I am very pleased with the improvements in revenue trends we have accomplished this year, said Jeff Gardner, president and CEO of Windstream. Our goal over the past few years was to transform our business to achieve revenue and cash flow growth. Given our shifting revenue mix, success-based capital investments and expected deal synergies, we are on the verge of showing growth in both of these areas.
Third-quarter financial results:
Under GAAP:
GAAP results include $13 million in after-tax merger, integration and restructuring costs and a $13 million tax-effected loss on the early extinguishment of debt, which lowered earnings per share by approximately 5 cents. Excluding these items, adjusted earnings per share would have been 19 cents.
Under pro forma results:
Third-quarter pro forma operating results:
In the business channel, advanced data and integrated solutions, which are largely connections providing both voice and data
services, increased 1 percent year-over-year. Special access circuits increased 9 percent year-over-year, driven by increased wireless backhaul demand.
The company added approximately 9,300 new high-speed Internet customers during the third quarter, bringing its total customer base to approximately 1.35 million - an increase of more than 4 percent year-over-year. Consumer broadband penetration is now approximately 65 percent of primary residential lines.
The company ended the quarter with approximately 449,000 video customers, representing 4 percent growth from a year ago.
Total access lines declined by approximately 37,000 during the third quarter, or 3.9 percent year-over-year. Total lines at the end of the quarter were 3.22 million.
Conference call:
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CDT today to review the company's third-quarter earnings results.
To access the call:
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-877-374-3977, conference ID 17697081, ten minutes prior to the start time.
To access the call replay:
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. CDT on Nov. 4 and ending at midnight CST on Nov. 11. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-855-859-2056, conference ID 17697081.
Webcast information:
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's website at www.windstream.com/investors. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the webcast will be available on the website beginning at 10:30 a.m. CDT on Nov. 4.
About Windstream
Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN), headquartered in Little Rock, Ark., is an S&P 500 communications and technology solutions provider with operations in 29 states and the District of Columbia and about $4 billion in annual revenues. Windstream provides IP-based voice and data services, MPLS networking, data center and managed hosting services and communication systems to businesses and government agencies. The company also delivers broadband, digital phone and high-definition TV services to residential customers primarily located in rural areas and operates a local and long-haul fiber network spanning approximately 60,000 route miles. For more information about Windstream, visit www.windstream.com.
Pro forma results adjusts results of operations under GAAP to include the acquisitions of NuVox Inc.; Iowa Telecommunications Services, Inc.; Hosted Solutions Acquisition, LLC and Q-Comm Corporation, and to exclude all merger and integration costs related to strategic transactions. A reconciliation of pro forma results to the comparable GAAP measures is available on the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in Windstream's forward-looking statements include, among others:
In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes.
Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in filings by Windstream with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
-end-
Media Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
David.avery@windstream.com
Investor Contact:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com
2
3
4
5
6
7
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions that may cause results reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") to be not necessarily indicative of future results.
Pending Acquisition:
  On July 31, 2011, Windstream entered into an agreement to acquire all outstanding shares of PAETEC Holding Corp. ("PAETEC") in an all stock transaction.  Under the terms of the agreement, PAETEC's shareholders will receive 0.460 shares of Windstream common stock for each outstanding PAETEC common share.  Windstream also will assume or refinance PAETEC's net debt of approximately $1.4 billion that was outstanding at June 30, 2011. The acquisition is expected to close by the end of 2011 subject to certain conditions including necessary approvals from federal and state regulators.
Completed Acquisitions
:
 On December 2, 2010, Windstream completed the acquisition of Q-Comm Corporation ("Q-Comm"). The Q-Comm acquisition provided the Company with increased scale and business revenues, as well as the opportunity for operating synergies with contiguous Windstream markets.
 On December 1, 2010, Windstream completed the acquisition of Hosted Solutions Acquisition, LLC ("Hosted Solutions"). The Hosted Solutions acquisition provided Windstream with five state-of-the-art data centers in Raleigh, N.C., Charlotte, N.C., and Boston, MA which serve more than 600 customers.
 On June 1, 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of Iowa Telecommunications Services, Inc. ("Iowa Telecom"). The Iowa Telecom acquisition added approximately 208,000 incumbent local exchange carrier access lines, 39,000 competitive local exchange carrier access lines, 96,000 high-speed Internet customers and 25,000 digital television customers in Iowa and Minnesota.
 On February 8, 2010, Windstream completed the acquisition of NuVox, Inc. (NuVox). The NuVox acquisition added approximately 104,000 data and integrated solution connections in complementary markets in 16 states.
As disclosed in the Windstream Form 8-K furnished on November 4, 2011, the Company has presented in this earnings release unaudited pro forma results, which includes results from NuVox, Iowa Telecom, Hosted Solutions and Q-Comm for periods prior to the acquisitions and excludes all merger and integration ("M&I") costs resulting from the completed transactions discussed above. In addition to pro forma adjustments, the Company presented certain measures of its operating performance, excluding the impact of restructuring charges, pension and stock-based compensation.
Windstreams purpose for including the results of acquired businesses and for excluding non-recurring items, restructuring charges, pension and stock-based compensation is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2011, to the results of operations for the same periods of 2010 in order to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Additionally, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods, and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results, including pro forma revenues and sales, pro forma OIBDA, pro forma adjusted OIBDA and proforma capital expenditures as key measures of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, consistently uses these measures for internal reporting and the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: further adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; continued voice line loss; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the adoption of intercarrier compensation and/or universal service reforms by the Federal Communications Commission or Congress that results in a significant loss of revenue to Windstream; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; for Windstream's competitive local exchange carrier operations, adverse effects on the availability, quality of service and price of facilities and services provided by other incumbent local exchange carriers on which Windstream's
8
competitive local exchange carrier services depend; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstreams debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of federal and state legislation, rules and regulations governing the communications industry; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unfavorable results of litigation; unfavorable rulings by state public service commissions in proceedings regarding universal service funds, inter-carrier compensation or other matters that could reduce revenues or increase expenses; the effects of work stoppages; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; earnings on pension plan investments significantly below our expected long term rate of return for plan assets; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and rates; and those additional factors under the caption Risk Factors in Windstreams Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
9


