FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20110801092847.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      .
ITEM 8.01
Other Information
 
On July 31, 2011, Windstream Corporation (""), PAETEC Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation (""), and Peach Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Windstream (""), entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the "") pursuant to which, among other things, .
Windstream
PAETEC
Merger Sub
Merger Agreement
Merger Sub will be merged (the "
Merger
") with and into PAETEC, with PAETEC surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Windstream, subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement
 
On August 1, 2011, Windstream and PAETEC issued a joint press release announcing the execution of the Merger Agreement, as discussed above. In addition, also on August 1, 2011, Windstream made a presentation to investors and analysts to discuss the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby.  A copy of each of the joint press release and the investor presentation are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The press release and investor presentation attached as exhibits hereto contain certain non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under Regulation G of the rules and regulations of the SEC, including adjusted OIBDA, or operating income before depreciation and amortization, excluding the impact of merger and integration expense, restructuring charges, pension expense, and stock-based compensation.  Adjusted OIBDA is a non-GAAP financial measure (i.e., it is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for consolidated statements of operations and cash flows data prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted OIBDA and other non-GAAP financial measures used by Windstream may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Windstream believes the presentation of supplemental measures of operating performance provides a meaningful comparison of our operating performance for the periods presented.
 
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in the press release and presentation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure has been posted to Windstreams investor relations website at .
www.windstream.com/investors
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the completion of the acquisition and expected benefits of the acquisition, are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: receipt of required approvals of regulatory agencies; the possibility that the anticipated benefits from the acquisition cannot be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the possibility that costs or difficulties related to the integration of PAETEC operations into Windstream will be greater than expected; the ability of the combined company to retain and hire key personnel; and those additional factors under the caption "Risk Factors" in Windstream's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and in subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
 
In connection with the proposed merger, Windstream will file a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the SEC that will contain a proxy statement/prospectus for the stockholders of PAETEC. The final proxy statement/prospectus will be mailed to stockholders of PAETEC. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus when it becomes available at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. Free copies of the proxy statement/prospectus, when it becomes available, may also be obtained from Windstream upon written request to Windstream Investor Relations, 4001 Rodney Parham Road, Little Rock, Arkansas 72212 or by calling (866) 320-7922, or from PAETEC upon written request to PAETEC Holding Corp., One PAETEC Plaza, 600 Willowbrook Office Park, Fairport, New York 14450 or by calling (585) 340-2500.
PAETEC investors and security holders are advised to read the proxy statement/prospectus and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC when they become available because those documents will contain important information about PAETEC, Windstream and the proposed merger.
 
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01.                                Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
 
                                
Exhibit No.
Description
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
By:                                                                 
/s/ John P. Fletcher
       John P. Fletcher
       Executive Vice President and General Counsel
    Dated:  August 1, 2011
                                
Exhibit No.
Description
 
 
 
 
 

Windstream to acquire PAETEC
Transaction is another significant step in companys transformation
Release date: Aug. 1, 2011
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN) has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire PAETEC Holding Corp. (Nasdaq: PAET), based in Fairport, N.Y., in a transaction valued at approximately $2.3 billion.
 
This transaction significantly advances our strategy to drive top-line revenue growth by expanding our focus on business and broadband services, said Jeff Gardner, president and CEO of Windstream. The combined company will have a nationwide network with a deep fiber footprint to offer enhanced capabilities in strategic growth areas, including IP-based services, data centers, cloud computing and managed services. Financially, we improve our growth profile and lower the payout ratio on our strong dividend, offering investors a unique combination of growth and yield.
Both PAETEC and Windstream are built on a customer and employee-focused culture. Together, with far denser network assets, an expansive fiber infrastructure, and larger data center footprint, I believe our brightest days are ahead, said Arunas A. Chesonis, chairman and CEO, of PAETEC.  Our combination now creates a new Fortune 500 company with the financial strength and scale to compete and win against any other provider in the industry. I'm confident that this transaction will deliver substantial long-term value for our customers, employees, and shareholders.
 
 
 
PAETEC shareholders will receive 0.460 shares of Windstream common stock for each PAETEC share owned under the terms of the agreement which was approved by the boards of directors of both companies. Windstream expects to issue approximately 73 million shares of stock valued at approximately $891 million, based on the companys closing stock price on July 29, 2011.
Windstream also will assume or refinance PAETECs net debt of approximately $1.4 billion at the time of closing.  PAETEC stockholders are expected to own approximately 13 percent of the combined company upon closing of the transaction.
Significant Synergies and Tax Attributes Drive Free Cash Flow Accretion
The transaction is expected to be accretive to free cash flow per share, excluding merger and integration costs, in the first year following the closing. The transaction is expected to generate annual pre-tax operating cost synergies of approximately $100 million and capital expenditure savings of approximately $10 million, which are expected to be fully realized by the third year after closing.  Windstream expects to incur merger and integration costs of approximately $50 million in operating expense in the first year following the closing and approximately $55 million in capital expenditures over the first three years following closing.
The transaction will allow annual PAETEC net operating loss utilization of approximately $130 million in each of the first 5 years. The tax benefits will have an estimated net present value of approximately $250 million.
Enhanced Scale and Improved Business Mix
The combined company would have had $6.1 billion in total revenue and about $2.4 billion in adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization, which excludes non-cash pension expense, restructuring charges and stock-based compensation expense, on a pro forma basis for the last 12 months ended March 31, 2011. Business and broadband revenues would have comprised approximately 70 percent of total revenue.
 
 
 
The new company will serve business customers in 46 states and the District of Columbia and maintain approximately 100,000 fiber route miles across the country. Windstream will offer data center services across the United States and have improved capability to serve multi-location business customers.
Strong Balance Sheet and Liquidity
Windstream will continue to have a strong balance sheet and liquidity. The transaction will be slightly deleveraging, including synergies.
Committed Financing
Windstream has received $1.1 billion in committed financing in connection with the acquisition, which financing would be required if Windstream refinances the assumed debt.
Dividend Practice
Windstream pays an annual dividend of $1 per share and its board of directors expects to continue the current dividend practice after the transaction closes.
Approvals and Anticipated Closing
The transaction is expected to close within six months, subject to certain conditions, including necessary approvals from federal and state regulators and PAETEC shareholders.
PAETEC Overview
PAETEC is a competitive local exchange carrier and provides  telecommunications services primarily to business customers in 46 states and the District of Columbia. The company operates seven data centers in the U.S. and owns approximately 36,700 route miles of fiber in portions of 39 states and the District of Columbia.
PAETEC has approximately 5,000 employees, including about 875 in the Rochester, N.Y. area. The company was founded in 1998.
 
 
 
Additional Information
Stephens Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC are acting as financial advisers and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is acting as legal adviser to Windstream in the transaction.
BofA America Merrill Lynch and Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. are acting as financial advisers and Hogan Lovells is acting as legal adviser to PAETEC in the transaction.
Conference Call
Windstream will hold a conference call at 8 a.m. CDT today to review the transaction.
To Access the Call
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-877-374-3977, conference ID 88434342, ten minutes prior to the start time.
To Access the Call Replay
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 9 a.m. CDT today and ending at midnight CDT on Aug. 8. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-855-859-2056, conference ID 88434342.
Webcast Information
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's website at www.windstream.com/investors. A replay of the webcast will be available on the website beginning at 9 a.m. CDT today.
About PAETEC
PAETEC (NASDAQ GS: PAET), a Fortune 1000 company, is personalizing communications and energy solutions in 86 of the top 100 metropolitan areas across the United States. We offer a comprehensive suite of network services (voice, data and fiber solutions), as well as managed services, cloud and data center services, software and technology, and energy services. For more information, visit www.paetec.com.
About Windstream
Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN), headquartered in Little Rock, Ark., is an S&P 500 communications and technology solutions provider with operations in 29 states and the District of Columbia and about $4 billion in annual revenues. Windstream provides IP-based voice and data services, MPLS networking, data center and managed hosting services and communication systems to businesses and government agencies. The company also delivers broadband, digital phone and high-definition TV services to residential customers primarily located in rural areas and operates a local and long-haul fiber network spanning approximately 60,000 route miles. For more information about Windstream, visit www.windstream.com.
A reconciliation of pro forma results referenced in the news release to the comparable GAAP measures is available on the companys website at www.windstream.com/investors.
 
 
 
Windstream Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the completion of the acquisition and expected benefits of the acquisition, are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: receipt of required approvals of regulatory agencies; the possibility that the anticipated benefits from the acquisition cannot be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the possibility that costs or difficulties related to the integration of PAETEC operations into Windstream will be greater than expected; the ability of the combined company to retain and hire key personnel; and those additional factors under the caption Risk Factors in Windstreams Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010, and in subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstreams filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
www.sec.gov
PAETEC Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Except for statements that present historical facts, this release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In some cases, you can identify these statements by such forward-looking words as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, potential, should, will and would, or similar expressions.  Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause PAETECs actual operating results, financial position, levels of activity or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These risks include those related to the ability of PAETEC to consummate the proposed merger and to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. Some of the other risks, uncertainties and factors are discussed under the caption Risk Factors in PAETECs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and in PAETECs subsequently filed SEC reports. They include, but are not limited to, the following risks, uncertainties and other factors: general economic conditions and trends; the continued availability of necessary network elements at acceptable cost from competitors; changes in regulation and the regulatory environment; industry consolidation; PAETECs ability to manage its business effectively; competition in the markets in which PAETEC operates; failure to adapt product and service offerings to changes in customer preferences and in technology; PAETECs ability to integrate the operations of acquired businesses; any significant impairment of PAETECs goodwill; PAETECs significant level of debt and interest payment obligations and compliance with covenants under PAETECs debt agreements; PAETECs ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and sales agents; PAETECs failure to obtain and maintain network permits and rights-of-way; PAETECs involvement in disputes and legal proceedings; PAETECs ability to maintain and enhance its back office systems; and effects of network failures, system breaches, natural catastrophes and other service interruptions. PAETEC disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
Additional Information and Where to Find It
This communication relates to the proposed merger transaction pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 31, 2011, among PAETEC Holding Corp. ("PAETEC"), Windstream Corporation ("Windstream") and Peach Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Windstream.
Windstream will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) a registration statement on Form S-4 in connection with the transaction that will include the proxy statement of PAETEC, which also will constitute a prospectus of Windstream.  PAETEC will send to its stockholders the proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger transaction.  PAETEC and Windstream urge investors and security holders to read the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents relating to the merger transaction when they become available, because they will contain important information about PAETEC, Windstream and the proposed transaction.  Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the Form S-4 and the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents relating to the merger transaction (when available) from the SECs website at www.sec.gov, PAETECs website at www.paetec.com and Windstreams website at www.windstream.com.  In addition, copies of the proxy statement/prospectus and such other documents may be obtained free of charge (when available) from Windstream, upon written request to Windstream Investor Relations, 4001 Rodney Parham Road, Little Rock, Arkansas 72212 or by calling (866) 320-7922, or from PAETEC, by directing a request to PAETEC Holding Corp., One PAETEC Plaza, Fairport, New York 14450, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone: (585) 340 2500.
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Certain Information Regarding Participants
PAETEC and its directors and executive officers may be deemed, under SEC rules, to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from PAETECs stockholders with respect to the proposed merger transaction.  Security holders may obtain information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of such individuals in PAETECs Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2010, which was filed with the SEC on April 12, 2011, and its definitive proxy statement for the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 20, 2011.  Additional information regarding the interests of such individuals in the proposed merger transaction will be included in the proxy statement/prospectus relating to the proposed transaction when it is filed with the SEC.  These documents may be obtained free of charge from the SECs website at www.sec.gov, PAETECs website at www.paetec.com and Windstreams website at www.windstream.com.
 
 
 

Windstream Investor Call
Announcement of Acquisition of PAETEC
August 1, 2011
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement
2
Regulation G Disclaimer
This presentation includes certain non-GAAP financial measures, which have been adjusted to include or exclude items that are related to strategic activities or other events, specific to the time and opportunity available.  For the periods presented, Windstreams strategic activities included the acquisitions of Iowa Telecommunication Services, Inc. ("Iowa Telecom") on June 2, 2010, Hosted Solutions Acquisitions, LLC ("Hosted Solutions") on December 1, 2010 and Q-Comm Corporation ("Q-Comm") on December 2, 2010.  In addition, adjustments related to the proposed acquisition of PAETEC Holding Corp. ("PAETEC") are included. Windstream believes the presentation of supplemental measures of operating performance provides a more meaningful comparison of our operating performance for the periods presented. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this presentation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure has been posted to our investor relations website at
www.windstream.com/investors
.   The non-GAAP financial measures used by Windstream may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Safe Harbor Statement
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the completion of the acquisition and expected benefits of the acquisition, are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: receipt of required approvals of regulatory agencies; the possibility that the anticipated benefits from the acquisition cannot be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the possibility that costs or difficulties related to the integration of PAETEC operations into Windstream will be greater than expected; the ability of the combined company to retain and hire key personnel; and those additional factors under the caption "Risk Factors" in Windstream's Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010, and in subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission a t www.sec.gov.
 
Additional Information
3
Additional Information
This communication relates to the proposed merger transaction pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 31, 2011, among PAETEC Holding Corp. ("PAETEC"), Windstream Corporation ("Windstream") and Peach Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Windstream.
 
Windstream will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") a registration statement on Form S-4 in connection with the transaction that will include the proxy statement of PAETEC, which also will constitute a prospectus of Windstream.  PAETEC will send to its stockholders the proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger transaction.  PAETEC and Windstream urge investors and security holders to read the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents relating to the merger transaction when they become available, because they will contain important information about PAETEC, Windstream and the proposed transaction.  Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the Form S-4 and the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents relating to the merger transaction (when available) from the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov
, PAETEC's website at
www.paetec.com
and Windstream's website at
www.windstream.com
.   In addition, copies of the proxy statement/prospectus and such other documents may be obtained free of charge (when available) from Windstream, upon written request to Windstream Investor Relations, 4001 Rodney Parham Road, Little Rock, Arkansas 72212 or by calling (866) 320-7922, or from PAETEC, by directing a request to PAETEC Holding Corp., One PAETEC Plaza, Fairport, New York 14450, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone: (585) 340-2500.
 
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Certain Information Regarding Participants
PAETEC and its directors and executive officers may be deemed, under SEC rules, to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from PAETEC's stockholders with respect to the proposed merger transaction.  Security holders may obtain information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of such individuals in PAETEC's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2010, which was filed with the SEC on April 12, 2011, and its definitive proxy statement for the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 20, 2011.   Additional information regarding the interests of such individuals in the proposed merger transaction will be included in the proxy statement/prospectus relating to the proposed transaction when it is filed with the SEC.  These documents may be obtained free of charge from the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov
, PAETEC's website at
www.paetec.com
and Windstream's website at
www.windstream.com
.
 
Compelling Transaction Rationale
4
Accelerates revenue and cash flow growth profile
Pro forma business and broadband services will represent ~70% of revenues
Creates nationwide network with deep fiber footprint of ~100,000 fiber route miles
Enhances capabilities in strategic growth areas: data services / fiber / data centers
Provides diverse, attractive customer base of medium and large businesses
Offers attractive financial benefits
Annual run-rate pre-tax opex synergies of ~$100 million
FCF accretive in first full year, excluding merger and integration costs
Significant tax attributes with net present value of ~$250 million
Annual usage of ~$130 million in each of the next 5 years
Slightly deleveraging with synergies
 
Transaction Summary
5
Transaction Structure:
100% stock
Fixed Exchange Ratio:
0.460 shares of Windstream stock for each PAETEC share
Implied offer price of $5.62, 27% premium to current price
Pro Forma Ownership:
87% Windstream shareholders/ 13% PAETEC shareholders
Transaction Value:
$2.3 billion, including PAETEC net debt of $1.4 billion as of 3/31/11
Estimated Synergies:
~$100 million of annual run-rate pre-tax opex synergies by year 3
Tax benefits:
$1.4 billion of PAETEC NOLs with NPV of ~$250 million
Annual usage of ~$130 million in each of the next 5 years
Estimated Transaction Multiples
(1)
:
6.0x 2011E Adj. OIBDA (before run-rate synergies)
4.3x 2011E Adj. OIBDA (after run-rate synergies and adjusted for PV of NOLs)
(1) Multiples based on midpoint of PAETEC adjusted EBITDA guidance
 
Transaction Summary (continued)
6
No Financing Contingencies
External committed financing combined with revolver availability
Pro Forma 3/31/11 LTM Net Leverage:
3.7x before run-rate synergies
3.5x after run-rate synergies
Dividend Practice:
Maintain Windstream annual dividend of $1.00 per share
Strengthens payout ratio
Closing Conditions:
FCC, HSR, applicable state-level regulatory approvals
PAETEC shareholder vote
Anticipated Time to Closing:
~6 months
 
Attractive Financial Profile
7
($ millions)
Windstream Legacy
(1)
Windstream / PAETEC Pro Forma
(2)
Total Revenues
$4,120
$6,193
Adjusted OIBDA
$2,059
$2,415/$2,515
(3)
Leverage
3.6x
3.7x/3.5x
(3)
(1) PF for Windstream acquisitions; LTM ended 3/31/11
(2) Pro forma for Cavalier and Xeta; LTM ended 3/31/11
(3) Includes run-rate synergies of $100 million
Consumer BB
Business
Consumer Other
Switched Access/USF
Windstream
Windstream / PAETEC
Business & Broadband are ~ 70% of 1Q11 Pro Forma Revenues
 
Creates Nationwide Network with Deep Fiber Footprint
8
Nationwide fiber network of ~100,000 fiber route miles
20 data centers with services offered nationwide
Improved capability to serve multi location business customers
Key Highlights
Extensive national footprint improves the cost structure and enhances capabilities
 
Nationwide Network and Enhanced Capabilities Improve Growth Profile
9
Extensive national footprint with deep fiber
Enhanced ability to service multi-location customers
Additional geographic expansion opportunities
Significant capacity to meet future bandwidth demand
Route diversity for improved security and reliability
Enhanced capabilities in strategic growth areas
Advanced data services: MPLS, Ethernet, VLS
Fiber transport / wireless backhaul
Data centers:  Managed services, hosted services, virtualization, collocation
Equipment and professional services
Network design
Cross-selling opportunities to an attractive customer base
Ethernet
MPLS
Wireless Backhaul
Hosting Services
Source: Frost & Sullivan 2010; SNL Kagan/NPRG 2009; Barclays/IDC 2011; NPRG 2009 (1) Growth represents 2010-2012 CAGR for the US
 
Combination Creates Meaningful Synergies
10
Targeting Approximately $100 Million in Opex Synergies
Operating Cost Synergies
~$100 million run-rate synergies annually by year 3
Capex Synergies
~$10 million run-rate annually by year 3
Integration Costs
~$50 million of opex in year 1
~$55 million of capex over 3 years
NuVox
Iowa Telecommunications
Hosted Solutions
Q-Comm (largely complete)
D
&
E Communications
Lexcom
Valor
CT Communications
2006-2007
2010
2009
Integration Activities from Prior Acquisitions Substantially Complete
WIN has the Experience & Track Record of Successful Integrations
 
A Great Strategic Combination
11
Accelerates Growth
Enhances Capabilities
Offers Attractive Financial Benefits
Accelerates revenue and cash flow growth profile
Pro forma business and broadband services will represent ~70% of revenues
Enhances capabilities in strategic growth areas
Complementary product set to leverage across a larger platform
Offers attractive financial benefits
Free cash flow accretive
Meaningful synergies - ~$100M / year
Significant tax assets  NPV of ~$250M
Slightly deleveraging after synergies
Creates a New Fortune 500 Company Offering Investors a Unique Combination of Growth & Yield
 
Q&A
12


