FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20110208085550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 7, 2011, Windstream Corporation (the Company or Windstream) announced the expiration of its previously announced tender offer to purchase for cash any and all of the $400 million in aggregate outstanding principal amount of 7.75 % Senior Notes due 2015 (the Notes) issued by Windstreams wholly owned subsidiaries Valor Telecommunications Enterprises, LLC and Valor Telecommunications Enterprises Finance Corp.
 
The tender offer for the Notes expired at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on February 4, 2011 (the Expiration Date).  As of the Expiration Date, Windstream had received tenders with respect to $151,625,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Notes (approximately 37.9% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Notes) pursuant to Windstreams Offer to Purchase, dated January 7, 2011, and the related Letter of Transmittal.  Windstream accepted for payment and paid for $151,376,000 in aggregate principal amount of such Notes on January 24, 2011.  Windstream accepted for payment and paid for the remaining Notes validly tendered prior to the Expiration Date on February 7, 2011.  Windstream intends to redeem the remaining $248,375,000 in aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes that were not tendered by the Expiration Date on February 23, 2011.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the expiration of the tender offer is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: further adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; continued voice line loss; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the adoption of intercarrier compensation and/or universal service reform proposals by the Federal Communications Commission or Congress that results in a significant loss of revenue to Windstream; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; for Windstreams competitive local exchange carrier operations, adverse effects on the availability, quality of service and price of facilities and services provided by other incumbent local exchange carriers on which Windstreams competitive local exchange carrier services depend; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstreams debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of federal and state legislation, and rules and regulations governing the communications industry; material changes in the communications industry that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unfavorable results of litigation; unfavorable rulings by state public service commissions in proceedings regarding universal service funds, inter carrier compensation or other matters that could reduce revenues or increase expenses; the effects of work stoppages; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; earnings on pension plan investments significantly below Windstreams expected long term rate of return for plan assets; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and rates; and those additional factors under the caption Risk Factors in Windstreams Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and in subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking
 
 
 
 
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstreams actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstreams future results included in Windstreams filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
February 7, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Windstream Announces Expiration of Tender Offer for its Subsidiaries 7.75 % Senior Notes Due 2015
Release Date: Feb. 7, 2011
announced today the expiration of its previously announced tender offer to purchase for cash any and all of the $400 million in aggregate outstanding principal amount of 7.75 % Senior Notes due 2015 (referred to below as the notes) issued by its wholly owned subsidiaries Valor Telecommunications Enterprises, LLC and Valor Telecommunications Enterprises Finance Corp.
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN)
The tender offer for the notes expired at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on February 4, 2011 (the Expiration Date).  As of the Expiration Date, Windstream had received tenders with respect to $151,625,000 in aggregate principal amount of the notes (approximately 37.9% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the notes) pursuant to Windstreams Offer to Purchase, dated January 7, 2011 (the Offer to Purchase), and the related Letter of Transmittal.  Windstream accepted for payment and paid for $151,376,000 in aggregate principal amount of such notes on January 24, 2011.  Windstream expects to accept for payment and pay for the remaining notes validly tendered prior to the Expiration Date on or about February 7, 2011.  Windstream intends to redeem the remaining $248,375,000 in aggregate principal amount of outstanding notes that were not tendered by the Expiration Date on February 23, 2011.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to purchase or a solicitation of an offer to sell the notes.  The tender offer was made solely by means of the Offer to Purchase and the related Letter of Transmittal.
About Windstream
Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN), headquartered in Little Rock, Ark., is an S&P 500 communications and technology company with operations in 29 states and the District of Columbia and about $4 billion in annual revenues. Windstream provides IP-based voice and data services, MPLS networking, data center and managed hosting services and communication systems to businesses and government agencies. The company also delivers broadband, digital phone and high-definition TV services to residential customers primarily located in rural areas and operates a local and long-haul fiber network spanning approximately 60,000 route miles.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor contained in the Private
 
 
 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for forward-looking statements set forth in this press release. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in Windstream's forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes.
Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstreams actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstreams future results included in filings by Windstream with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Media Relations Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com


