FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20121108074224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM
8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 8, 2012
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(501) 748-7000
Registrants telephone number, including area code
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
1
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 8, 2012, Windstream Corporation (Windstream or the Company) issued a press release announcing the Companys third quarter 2012 unaudited consolidated results of operations. The press release presents the Companys unaudited consolidated results of operations measured under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) and certain unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. A non-GAAP financial measure is defined as a numerical measure of a companys financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Companys financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
On November 30, 2011, Windstream completed the acquisition of PAETEC Holding Corp ("PAETEC"). This transaction may cause results reported under GAAP to be not necessarily indicative of future results.
The unaudited consolidated results from current businesses presented on a pro forma basis include preacquisition results of operations of acquired businesses for completed acquisitions and exclude merger and integration costs associated with the transaction when compared to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Windstreams purpose for including the preacquisition results of PAETEC and for excluding merger and integration costs is to improve the comparability of results of operations for periods in 2011 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2012 in order to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services.
The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
The Companys press release, and other communications from time to time, include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Companys financial statements by taking operating income and adding back depreciation and amortization expense. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, which is also a non-GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Companys operating performance.
In addition, from time to time the Companys communications will also include the following non-GAAP measures:
2
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
3
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
November 8, 2012
4
EXHIBIT INDEX
5

Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports third-quarter results
Release date: Nov. 8, 2012
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. - Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN) generated sequential growth in revenue and Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization (OIBDA) in the third-quarter, driven by increased business sales.
Our business continues to perform well, and I am confident in our ability to deliver strong free cash flow long-term to support our dividend, said Jeff Gardner, president and CEO of Windstream. The dividend is a key component of our investment thesis, and we believe it is the best way to provide returns to our shareholders.
Pro Forma Financial Results
Total revenues and sales were $1.55 billion in the third quarter, a decline of less than 1 percent from the same period a year ago. Total revenues increased by $15 million from the second quarter, which was the largest sequential improvement recorded to date.
Adjusted OIBDA was $603 million, a decrease of 1 percent year-over-year. Adjusted OIBDA improved sequentially by $7 million as a result of cost management initiatives. Adjusted OIBDA removes the impact of restructuring charges, pension expense and stock-based compensation.
Business service revenues were $906 million, up 3 percent from the same period a year ago. Data and integrated services revenues were $388 million, an increase of 9 percent from the same period a year ago, driven by growth in IP, next generation data and data center services. Carrier service revenues were $162 million, an increase of 3 percent year-over-year, largely due to fiber-to-the-tower installations.
Consumer broadband service revenues were $115 million, up 4 percent from the same period in 2011. Overall consumer service revenues were $335 million, essentially unchanged from the second quarter of 2012 and a decrease of 3 percent from the same period a year ago.
Business and consumer broadband revenues represented approximately 69 percent of Windstream's total revenues and sales in the quarter and collectively grew 2.7 percent year-over-year.
Wholesale revenues were $220 million, a decline of 10 percent from the same period a year ago and in line with expectations.
Adjusted capital expenditures were $289 million in the quarter, excluding $18 million in integration capital related to PAETEC network optimization opportunities.
Exhibit 99(a)
Pro Forma Operating Results
Windstream this quarter released consolidated operating metrics to include PAETEC, which was acquired on Dec. 1. Enterprise customers, who generate $750 or more in revenue per month, grew 7 percent year-over-year. Total business customers at the end of the quarter were approximately 650,000.
Carrier special access circuits increased 3 percent year-over-year primarily due to fiber-to-the-tower installations. Carrier special access circuits also include dedicated circuits purchased by telecommunications carriers to transport traffic between points on their network or from their network to a customer location.
In the consumer channel, Windstream added approximately 6,000 new high-speed Internet customers in the third quarter, bringing its penetration of primary voice lines to 70 percent. Consumer voice lines declined 4 percent year-over-year. Windstream had approximately 1.87 million consumer voice lines at the end of the quarter.
GAAP Financial Results
In the third quarter under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), Windstream reported total revenues and sales of $1.55 billion, operating income of $248 million and net income of $54 million, or 9 cents per share. That compares to net income of $78 million, or 15 cents per share, on total revenues of approximately $1 billion during the same period in 2011.
GAAP results include approximately $7.8 million in after-tax merger and integration expense and $7.5 million in restructuring costs. Excluding these items, adjusted earnings per share would have been 12 cents for the third quarter.
Adjusted Free Cash Flow
Adjusted free cash flow was $182 million during the third quarter. For the first nine months of 2012, Windstream generated $669 million in adjusted free cash flow and paid out $441 million in dividends, representing a dividend payout ratio of 66 percent. Adjusted free cash flow is adjusted OIBDA, excluding merger and integration expense, minus cash interest, cash taxes and adjusted capital expenditures.
Cost Management Initiatives
Windstream completed a restructuring of its management organization in the third quarter, simplifying its operating model to better serve customers. The reorganization will result in annualized savings of approximately $40 million.
Additionally, the company has achieved a run rate of $60 million in operating synergies through the third quarter and is on track to achieve $100 million in total by the end of 2014 related to the acquisition of PAETEC.
Conference call:
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CST today to review the company's third-quarter earnings results.
Exhibit 99(a)
To access the call:
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-877-374-3977, conference ID 37407974, ten minutes prior to the start time.
To access the call replay:
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. CST today and ending at midnight on Nov. 15. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-855-859-2056, conference ID 37407974.
Webcast information:
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's website at www.windstream.com/investors. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the webcast will be available on the website beginning at 10:30 a.m. CST today.
About Windstream
Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq: WIN) is a leading provider of advanced network communications, including cloud computing and managed services, to businesses nationwide. The company also offers broadband, phone and digital TV services to consumers primarily in rural areas. Windstream has more than $6 billion in annual revenues and is listed on the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit www.windstream.com.
Pro forma results adjust results of operations under GAAP to include the acquisition of PAETEC Holding Corp., and to exclude all merger and integration costs related to strategic transactions. A reconciliation of pro forma results to the comparable GAAP measures is available on the company's Web site at www.windstream.com/investors.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements, including statements about Windstream's ability to generate cash flows in future periods and to pay its current dividend, are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in Windstream's forward-looking statements include, among others:
Exhibit 99(a)
In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes.
Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in filings by Windstream with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
-end-
Media Contact:
David Avery, 501-748-5876
david.avery@windstream.com
Investor Contact:
Mary Michaels, 501-748-7578
mary.michaels@windstream.com
Exhibit 99(a)
1
Exhibit 99(a)
2
Exhibit 99(a)
3
Exhibit 99(a)
4
Exhibit 99(a)
5
Exhibit 99(a)
6
Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream Corporation ("we," "us" or "our") has entered into various transactions, including the acquisition of PAETEC Holding Corp. ("PAETEC"), that may cause results reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") to be not necessarily indicative of future results. On November 30, 2011, we completed the acquisition of PAETEC in an all-stock transaction valued at approximately $2.4 billion. PAETEC shareholders received 0.460 shares of our stock for each PAETEC share owned at closing. We issued 70.0 million shares and assumed equity awards shares for a total transaction value of $842.0 million, based on our closing stock price on November 30, 2011, and the fair value of the equity awards assumed. We also assumed PAETEC's debt, net of cash acquired, of approximately $1,591.3 million, which includes a net premium of $113.9 million based on the fair value of the debt on November 30, 2011, and bank debt of $99.5 million that was repaid on December 1, 2011.
As disclosed in our Form 8-K furnished on August 9, 2012, we have presented in this package unaudited pro forma results, which includes results from PAETEC for periods prior to the acquisition and excludes all merger and integration costs resulting from the completed transactions discussed above. PAETEC results include results from companies acquired by PAETEC for periods prior to those acquisitions and excludes the results of operations of the energy business acquired as part of PAETEC and sold during the second quarter of 2012, which has been classified as discontinued operations. In addition to pro forma adjustments, we have presented certain measures of our operating performance, excluding the impact of restructuring charges, pension and share-based compensation. We have made certain reclassifications and revisions to prior periods to conform with the current presentation.
Our purpose for including the results of the acquired businesses and for excluding non-recurring items, the results of the disposed operations, restructuring charges, pension and share-based compensation is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the three and nine month periods ended
September 30,
2012
, to the results of operations for the same periods of 2011 in order to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Additionally, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods, and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of our current businesses. We use pro forma results, including pro forma revenues and sales, pro forma OIBDA , pro forma adjusted OIBDA, pro forma capital expenditures and adjusted free cash flow as key measures of the operational performance of our business. Our management, including our chief executive officer, the chief operating decision-maker, consistently uses these measures for internal reporting and the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance.
We claim the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about expected levels of support from universal service funds or other government programs, expected rates of loss of voice lines or intercarrier compensation, expected increases in high-speed Internet and business data connections, our expected ability to fund operations, expected required contributions to our pension plan, capital expenditures and certain debt maturities from cash flows from operations, expected synergies and other benefits from completed acquisitions, expected effective federal income tax rates, expected annualized savings from the management restructuring and forecasted capital expenditure amounts. These and other forward-looking statements include statements about our ability to generate cash flows in future periods and to pay our current dividend, and these statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that we believe are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and our results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements include, among others: further adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by us; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the uncertainty regarding the implementation of the Federal Communications Commission's ("FCC") rules on intercarrier compensation, and the potential for the adoption of further rules by the FCC or Congress on intercarrier compensation and/or universal service reform proposals that result in a significant loss of revenue to us; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; for certain operations where we lease facilities from other carriers, adverse effects on the availability, quality of service and price of facilities and services provided by other carriers on which our services depend; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of federal and state legislation, and rules and regulations governing the communications industry; material changes in the communications industry that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unfavorable results of litigation; continued access line loss; unfavorable rulings by state public service commissions in proceedings regarding universal service funds, inter-carrier compensation or other matters that could reduce revenues or increase expenses; the effects of work stoppages by our employees or employees of other communications companies on whom we rely for service; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; earnings on pension plan investments significantly below our expected long term rate of return for plan assets or a significant change in the discount rate; and those additional factors under the caption Risk Factors in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and in subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results included in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
7


