FILE:WIN/WIN-8K-20120222072146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM
8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 22, 2012
WINDSTREAM CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(501) 748-7000
Registrants telephone number, including area code
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 22, 2012, Windstream Corporation (Windstream or the Company) issued a press release announcing the Companys fourth quarter 2011 unaudited consolidated results of operations. The press release presents the Companys consolidated results of operations measured under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) and certain unaudited pro forma results of operations from current businesses, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. A non-GAAP financial measure is defined as a numerical measure of a companys financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Companys financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Windstream Corporation has completed the following transactions that may cause results reported under GAAP to be not necessarily indicative of future results:
Completed Acquisitions:
The unaudited consolidated results from current businesses presented on a pro forma basis either include or exclude the following items when compared to measures prepared in accordance with GAAP:
Includes:
Excludes:
Windstreams purpose for including the preacquisition results of NuVox, Iowa Telecom, Hosted Solutions, Q-Comm and PAETEC and for excluding merger and integration costs is to improve the comparability of results of operations for periods in 2010 to the results of operations for the same periods of 2011 in order to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services.
The Company uses pro forma results from current businesses as a key measure of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses these measures consistently for all purposes, including internal reporting, the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance, and the determination of management compensation.
The Companys press release, and other communications from time to time, include a non-GAAP measure titled operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA. OIBDA can be calculated directly from the Companys financial statements by taking operating income and adding back depreciation and amortization expense. The Company will also at times make reference to pro forma OIBDA from current businesses, which is also a non-GAAP measure. Pro forma OIBDA from current businesses adjusts OIBDA for the items that are either included or excluded from pro forma results from current businesses. Management considers OIBDA to be useful to investors because OIBDA provides information specific to the Companys operating performance.
1
In addition, from time to time the Companys communications will also include the following non-GAAP measures:
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
February 22, 2012
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
4

Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream reports fourth quarter, full-year 2011 results
Release date: Feb. 22, 2012
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -- Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq:WIN) showed improved financial trends in its fourth-quarter and full-year 2011 results, driven by growth in business service and consumer broadband revenues.
"2011 was an incredibly successful year for Windstream," said Jeff Gardner, president and chief executive officer. "As a result of solid execution in our legacy business, coupled with our targeted acquisition approach, we significantly improved the financial trajectory of our company and reached a significant milestone of growing pro forma revenue and Adjusted OIBDA during the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis, giving us great momentum heading into 2012."
Windstream acquired PAETEC, a leading national business services provider, in the fourth quarter of 2011. The transaction added more than 36,000 miles of fiber to Windstream's network and seven data centers, significantly enhancing the company's ability to serve business customers.
"Together we are a much stronger company with an expansive fiber network, an attractive product portfolio and an outstanding business sales team, positioning Windstream for success in the enterprise space on a national level," Gardner said.
Throughout 2011, Windstream also continued to invest in high-growth initiatives that will help grow revenue and cash flow during 2012 and beyond. The company's aggressive fiber-to-the-tower program serves wireless carriers' need for greater bandwidth to accommodate increasing wireless data usage. At the same time, Windstream continued to capitalize on the burgeoning demand for data management services by expanding its data center operations to 21 data centers now offering managed services and cloud computing.
Pro forma total revenues, which include results for PAETEC and other recent acquisitions, were $1.6 billion for the fourth quarter, an increase of 0.7 percent over the same period a year ago, and Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization (OIBDA) was $612 million, an increase of 0.4 percent. Adjusted OIBDA removes the impact of restructuring charges, pension expense and stock-based compensation.
Windstream's full-year pro forma total revenues were $6.2 billion, a decline of 0.3 percent from 2010, and adjusted OIBDA was $2.4 billion, an increase of 1.2 percent.
Pro forma business service revenues were $888 million for the fourth quarter, up 2.5 percent from the same period a year ago. For the full year, business service revenues were $3.5 billion, an increase of 1.8 percent.
"Our sales team is doing a fantastic job selling our enhanced suite of business products, including data, voice, network and cloud services. We have created a robust platform of services and continue to strengthen our competitive position in the enterprise space," Gardner said.
Exhibit 99(a)
Pro forma consumer service revenues were $341 million for the quarter, down 2.5 percent from the same period in 2010. For the full year, consumer service revenues were $1.4 billion, a decrease of 2.6 percent.
Pro forma consumer broadband revenues were $118 million for the quarter, up 7 percent from the same period in 2010. For the full year, consumer broadband revenues were $464 million, an increase of 9 percent.
"Our consumer team had another solid year and showed continued improvement in financial trends," Gardner said. "We will continue to compete aggressively for residential broadband customers and maintain our focus on meeting consumers' demand for incremental broadband services and faster speeds, which will grow average revenue per user."
Business and consumer broadband revenues represented approximately 67.4 percent of Windstream's fourth quarter pro forma total revenues.
In the fourth quarter under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), Windstream reported consolidated revenue of $1.2 billion, operating income of $100 million and a net loss of $31.9 million, or 6 cents per share. That compares to net income of $57 million, or 10 cents per share, on total revenues of $981 million during the same period in 2010.
GAAP results include a pre-tax non-cash pension charge of approximately $163 million, or $103 million after-tax, during the fourth quarter due to previously announced changes in the company's pension accounting method. In addition, results include approximately $23 million in after-tax merger and integration expense and an after-tax loss of roughly $7 million related to the early extinguishment of debt. Excluding all of these items, adjusted earnings per share would have been 19 cents for the fourth quarter.
For all of 2011 under GAAP, Windstream reported net income of $172 million, or 33 cents per share, on total revenues of $4.3 billion. That compares to net income of $313 million, or 66 cents per share, on total revenues of $3.7 billion during the same period in 2010.
In 2011, Windstream generated $784 million in adjusted free cash flow, resulting in a dividend payout ratio of 65 percent. Adjusted free cash flow reflects the combined operations of Windstream and its acquisitions for the periods following their respective acquisition dates as reported under GAAP, excluding merger and integration expense, minus cash interest, cash taxes and capital expenditures.
Financial outlook for 2012
"We have a tremendous opportunity this year to build on the financial momentum of 2011 and our expanded market presence and network to deliver advanced communications and technology solutions nationwide," Gardner said. "We also have exciting prospects to continue investing for growth through our fiber-to-the-tower program, data center expansion and broadband stimulus projects."
Windstream issued the following financial guidance for 2012:
Exhibit 99(a)
The company expects a dividend payout ratio of expected adjusted free cash flow between 62 percent and 70 percent in 2012.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $1.305 billion in 2012.
In addition, Windstream has received Federal Communications Commission approval to proceed with two sales of spectrum that the company obtained in previous acquisitions. As a result, Windstream expects to receive $55 million in proceeds in the first quarter of 2012.
Conference call:
Windstream will hold a conference call at 7:30 a.m. CST today to review the company's fourth-quarter and full-year 2011 earnings results.
To access the call:
Interested parties can access the call by dialing 1-877-374-3977, conference ID 41669018, ten minutes prior to the start time.
To access the call replay:
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. CST today and ending at midnight CST on March 1. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-855-859-2056, conference ID 41669018.
Webcast information:
The conference call also will be streamed live over the company's website at
www.windstream.com/investors
. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will be posted on the site. A replay of the webcast will be available on the website beginning at 10:30 a.m. CST today.
About Windstream
Windstream Corp. (Nasdaq:WIN) is a leading provider of advanced network communications, including cloud computing and managed services, to businesses nationwide. The company also offers broadband, phone and digital TV services to consumers primarily in rural areas. Windstream has more than $6 billion in annual revenues and is listed on the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit
www.windstream.com
.
The Windstream Corporation logo is available at
http://www.globenewswire.com/newsroom/prs/?pkgid=7044
Pro forma results adjust results of operations under GAAP to include the acquisitions of NuVox, Inc., Iowa Telecommunications Services, Inc., Hosted Solutions Acquisition, LLC, Q-Comm Corporation and PAETEC Holding Corp., and to exclude all merger and integration costs related to strategic transactions. For further details on these adjustments, see the Notes to Unaudited Reconciliation of Revenues and Sales, Operating Income and Capital Expenditures Under GAAP to Pro Forma Revenues and Sales, Pro Forma Adjusted OIBDA and Pro Forma Capital Expenditures on the company's website at
www.windstream.com/investors
.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for forward-looking statements set forth in this press release. Forward looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, Windstream's financial outlook for 2012, expected amount of cash taxes, net cash interest, depreciation and amortization expense, potential revenue growth and capital expenditures for 2012. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors.
Exhibit 99(a)
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in Windstream's forward looking statements include, among others:
In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes.
Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at
www.sec.gov
.
Exhibit 99(a)
1
Exhibit 99(a)
2
Exhibit 99(a)
3
Exhibit 99(a)
4
Exhibit 99(a)
5
Exhibit 99(a)
6
Exhibit 99(a)
Windstream Corporation has entered into various transactions that may cause results reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") to be not necessarily indicative of future results.
Completed Acquisitions
:
 On December 2, 2010, Windstream completed the acquisition of Q-Comm Corporation ("Q-Comm"). The Q-Comm acquisition provided the Company with increased scale and business revenues, as well as the opportunity for operating synergies with contiguous Windstream markets.
 On December 1, 2010, Windstream completed the acquisition of Hosted Solutions Acquisition, LLC ("Hosted Solutions"). The Hosted Solutions acquisition provided Windstream with five state-of-the-art data centers in Raleigh, N.C., Charlotte, N.C., and Boston, MA which serve more than 600 customers.
 On June 1, 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of Iowa Telecommunications Services, Inc. ("Iowa Telecom"). The Iowa Telecom acquisition added approximately 208,000 incumbent local exchange carrier access lines, 39,000 competitive local exchange carrier access lines, 96,000 high-speed Internet customers and 25,000 digital television customers in Iowa and Minnesota.
 On February 8, 2010, Windstream completed the acquisition of NuVox, Inc. (NuVox). The NuVox acquisition added approximately 104,000 data and integrated solution connections in complementary markets in 16 states.
As disclosed in the Windstream Form 8-K furnished on February 22, 2012, the Company has presented in this earnings release unaudited pro forma results, which includes results from NuVox, Iowa Telecom, Hosted Solutions, Q-Comm and PAETEC for periods prior to the acquisitions and excludes all merger and integration ("M&I") costs resulting from the completed transactions discussed above. In addition to pro forma adjustments, the Company presented certain measures of its operating performance, excluding the impact of restructuring charges, pension and stock-based compensation. The Company has retrospectively adjusted historical results for 2010 and for the first three quarters of 2011 to reflect its voluntary change in accounting principle for pension benefits. Historically, the Company has recognized actuarial gains and losses as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheets on an annual basis and amortized them into pension expense over time. On January 25, 2012, the Company furnished an 8-K to reflect its voluntary change in accounting principle to immediately recognize actuarial gains and losses in its operating results in the year in which the gains and losses occur. This change will improve transparency in Windstreams operating results by more quickly recognizing the effects of economic and interest rate trends on plan investments and assumptions.
Windstreams purpose for including the results of acquired businesses and for excluding non-recurring items, restructuring charges, pension and stock-based compensation is to improve the comparability of results of operations for the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2011, to the results of operations for the same periods of 2010 in order to focus on the true earnings capacity associated with providing telecommunication services. Additionally, management believes that presenting current business measures assists investors by providing more meaningful comparisons of results from current and prior periods, and by providing information that is a better reflection of the core earnings capacity of the businesses. The Company uses pro forma results, including pro forma revenues and sales, pro forma OIBDA, pro forma adjusted OIBDA and proforma capital expenditures as key measures of its operational performance. Windstream management, including the chief operating decision-maker, consistently uses these measures for internal reporting and the evaluation of business objectives, opportunities and performance.
Windstream claims the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual future events and results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions that Windstream believes are reasonable but are not guarantees of future events and results. Actual future events and results of Windstream may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others: further adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by Windstream; the extent, timing and overall effects of competition in the communications business; continued voice line loss; the impact of new, emerging or competing technologies; the adoption of intercarrier
7
Exhibit 99(a)
compensation and/or universal service reforms by the Federal Communications Commission or Congress that results in a significant loss of revenue to Windstream; the risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses or the ability to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities; for Windstream's competitive local exchange carrier operations, adverse effects on the availability, quality of service and price of facilities and services provided by other incumbent local exchange carriers on which Windstream's competitive local exchange carrier services depend; the availability and cost of financing in the corporate debt markets; the potential for adverse changes in the ratings given to Windstreams debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the effects of federal and state legislation, rules and regulations governing the communications industry; material changes in the communications industry generally that could adversely affect vendor relationships with equipment and network suppliers and customer relationships with wholesale customers; unfavorable results of litigation; unfavorable rulings by state public service commissions in proceedings regarding universal service funds, inter-carrier compensation or other matters that could reduce revenues or increase expenses; the effects of work stoppages; the impact of equipment failure, natural disasters or terrorist acts; earnings on pension plan investments significantly different than Windstream's expected long term rate of return for plan assets, or significant changes in actuarial estimates impacting our pension liability such as discount rates; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and rates; and those additional factors under the caption Risk Factors in Windstreams Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially because of more general factors including, among others, general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. Windstream undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause Windstream's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect Windstream's future results included in Windstream's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
8


