FILE:EIX/EIX-8K-20051107080152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
This current report and its exhibit include forward-looking statements. Edison International based these forward looking statements on its current expectations and projections about future events in light of its knowledge of facts as of the date of this current report and its assumptions about future circumstances. Forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that may be outside the control of Edison International and its subsidiaries. Edison International has no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether due to new information, future events, or otherwise. This current report should be read with Edison International's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
 
 
 
Members of Edison International's management will attend the Edison Electric Institute Fall Financial Conference on November 6, 7 and 8, 2005. Management will participate in meetings on November 7 and 8 at which Edison International's Edison Electric Institute Fall Financial Conference Handout, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will be used.
 
The information furnished in this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
 
 
 
See the Exhibit Index below.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: November 7, 2005
 



