FILE:EIX/EIX-8K-20070509081311.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
This current report and its exhibit include forward-looking statements. Edison International based these forward-looking statements on its current expectations and projections about future events in light of its knowledge of facts as of the date of this current report and its assumptions about future circumstances. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that may be outside the control of Edison International. Edison International has no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether due to new information, future events, or otherwise. This current report should be read with Edison International's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 
On May 9, 2007, Edison International issued a press release reporting its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished in this Item 2.02 and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
 
See the Exhibit Index below.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 9, 2007
 

 
 
 
 
Edison International Financial Highlights
 
ROSEMEAD, Calif., May 9, 2007  Edison International (NYSE: EIX) today reported net income of $333 million or consolidated basic earnings per common share of $1.01 in the first quarter of 2007, compared to net income of $258 million or $0.78 basic earnings per common share in the same period last year. Excluding discontinued operations and other non-core items, Edison International's first-quarter core earnings per share were $0.90, up $0.34 over core earnings per share in the same period last year.
"We began 2007 with strong financial performance across our businesses," said John E. Bryson, Chairman and CEO, Edison International. "We are continuing our progress in creating long-term shareholder value as we invest in the expansion and modernization of our electricity grid and develop new renewable and other environmentally-friendly generation."
 
EDISON INTERNATIONAL REPORTS 2007 FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
Page 2 of 10
 
FIRST-QUARTER EARNINGS DETAIL
Earnings from Continuing Operations
SCE's first-quarter 2007 earnings from continuing operations were $180 million, compared to earnings of $121 million in the same period last year. SCE's 2007 first-quarter results include a non-core tax benefit of $31 million primarily reflecting progress in an administrative appeal process with the Internal Revenue Service related to the income tax treatment of costs associated with environmental remediation. SCE's core earnings, which exclude the tax item, were $149 million, up $28 million from the first quarter of 2006. The increase was primarily from the delay in receiving the 2006 rate case decision. When the decision was received in May 2006, SCE was authorized to recover its revenue requirement effective back to January 12, 2006.
EMG's 2007 first-quarter earnings from continuing operations were $155 million, up $82 million from the same period last year. The improvement was primarily due to an increase in wholesale energy margins driven by higher generation and energy prices at both Midwest Generation and Homer City. Generation comparisons at Homer City were impacted by a 2006 transformer outage that lasted during part of the first quarter of last year. In addition, results at Midwest Generation were impacted by mark-to-market losses (after-tax) of $13 million related to non-qualifying hedges under FAS 133 resulting from an increase in forward wholesale power prices.
Earnings from Discontinued Operations
Edison International's earnings from discontinued operations were $3 million and $73 million in the first quarter of 2007 and 2006, respectively. These amounts primarily reflect the receipt of distributions from the U.K. Lakeland project previously owned by EMG.
 
 
EDISON INTERNATIONAL REPORTS 2007 FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
Page 3 of 10
 
Edison International's earnings are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles used in the United States and represent the company's earnings as reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Edison International's management uses core earnings, which exclude earnings from discontinued operations and certain other non-core items, internally for financial planning and for analysis of performance. Edison International also uses core earnings as the primary performance measurement when communicating with analysts and investors regarding its earnings results and outlook as it allows them to better compare the company's ongoing performance across periods. Core earnings per share are reconciled to basic earnings per common share (see Chart 1). Management also uses Adjusted EBITDA as an important financial measure for evaluating its businesses. EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, dividends on preferred and preference stock not subject to mandatory redemption, depreciation, decommissioning and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA excludes amounts from SCE's nuclear decommissioning trust earnings and contributions, variable interest entities (VIEs), and rate reduction bonds (RRBs), as these amounts do not affect utility earnings, and EMG's gain on the sale of assets, and includes production tax credits from EMG's wind projects. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA measures are reconciled to net income in Chart 2.
Today, Edison International will hold a conference call to discuss its first-quarter 2007 financial results at 8 a.m. (Pacific daylight time). Although two-way participation in the telephone call is limited to financial analysts and investors, all other interested parties are invited to participate in a "listen-only mode" through a simultaneous webcast on the company's web site at www.edison.com. Additional financial and other statistical information, if any, presented during the call will be available on the web site. The domestic call-in number is (800) 356-8584 and the ID# is 11200. In addition to the live simulcast, the webcast will remain posted on the Edison International web site and telephone replays will be available through Wednesday, May 16, 2007, at the following numbers: (877) 693-4277  for callers in the U.S.; and (402) 220-0042  for international callers. The PIN Number is 11201.
 
EDISON INTERNATIONAL REPORTS 2007 FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
Page 4 of 10
 
 
 
EDISON INTERNATIONAL REPORTS 2007 FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
Page 5 of 10
 
 
: EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, dividends on preferred and preference stock not subject to mandatory redemption, depreciation, decommissioning and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA excludes amounts from SCE's nuclear decommissioning trust earnings and contributions, VIEs and RRBs, as these amounts do not affect utility earnings, EMG's gain on the sale of assets, and includes production tax credits from EMG's wind projects.
Note
 
EDISON INTERNATIONAL REPORTS 2007 FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
Page 6 of 10
 
 
 
EDISON INTERNATIONAL REPORTS 2007 FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
Page 7 of 10
 
 
 
EDISON INTERNATIONAL REPORTS 2007 FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
Page 8 of 10
 
 
 
EDISON INTERNATIONAL REPORTS 2007 FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
Page 9 of 10
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements reflect Edison International's current expectations and projections about future events based on Edison International's knowledge of present facts and circumstances and assumptions about future events and include any statement that does not directly relate to a historical or current fact. In this report and elsewhere, the words "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "plans," "probable," "may," "will," "could," "would," "should," and variations of such words and similar expressions, or discussions of strategy or of plans, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements necessarily involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Some of the risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause results to differ, or that otherwise could impact Edison International or its subsidiaries, include but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EDISON INTERNATIONAL REPORTS 2007 FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
Page 10 of 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information about risks and uncertainties, including more detail about the factors described above, is contained in Edison International's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are urged to read such reports and carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors that affect Edison International's business. Readers also should review future reports filed by Edison International with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained in this release is subject to change without notice. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and Edison International is not obligated to publicly update or revise forward-looking statements.
Rosemead, Calif.-based Edison International (NYSE:EIX) is an electric power generator and distributor, and an investor in infrastructure and renewable energy projects with assets totaling more than $36 billion. The company is comprised of a regulated utility, Southern California Edison, and an unregulated group of business units, EMG. The California Public Utilities Commission does not regulate the terms of EMG's products and services.
APPENDIX
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY
 
APPENDIX
 


