FILE:EIX/EIX-8K-20100312062318.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
This current report and its exhibit include forward-looking statements. Edison International based these forward-looking statements on its current expectations and projections about future events in light of its knowledge of facts as of the date of this current report and its assumptions about future circumstances. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that may be outside the control of Edison International. Edison International has no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether due to new information, future events, or otherwise. This current report should be read with Edison International's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
Item 8.01
                              
Other Events
 
Midwest Generation New Source Review ("NSR") Lawsuit Decision
 
Since August 2009, Midwest Generation, LLC ("Midwest Generation"), an indirect subsidiary of Edison International, has been defending an action brought in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois by the State of Illinois and the Department of Justice.  The suit alleged violations of the Clean Air Act ("CAA") and related regulations.  Among the allegations were ten counts alleging that Midwest Generation violated the CAA's Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") provisions by operating six power plants that a prior owner had modified without obtaining PSD permits.  In a memorandum opinion and order dated March 9, 2010, and released March 11, 2010, the Court (Judge John W. Darrah) dismissed nine of the ten PSD counts, holding that, as a subsequent owner, Midwest Generation could not be held liable under the PSD provisions for modifications allegedly made by the prior owner.  The Court also dismissed the tenth count to the extent it sought civil penalties under the CAA, as barred by the applicable statute of limitations.
 
The motion did not address and the decision does not dismiss (i) other counts in the complaint that allege violations of opacity and particulate matter limitations under the Illinois State Implementation Plan and Title V of the CAA or (ii) the complaint in intervention filed by five citizens groups, which also alleges opacity and particulate matter violations. A copy of the Order and Opinion is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01
                              
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
           Exhibits
 
See the Exhibit Index below.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1


