FILE:EIX/EIX-8K-20101210170049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On December 9, 2010, Edison International announced the retirement of Alan J. Fohrer from his position as the principal executive officer of Edison Internationals Southern California Edison Company (SCE) subsidiary.  Edison International also announced that Ronald L. Litzinger will succeed Mr. Fohrer as SCEs principal executive officer.  In connection with this transition, Mr. Litzinger will resign his current position as Chairman of the Board, President and CEO of Edison Mission Group Inc. and Edison Mission Energy, which are also subsidiaries of Edison International.  Mr. Fohrers retirement and Mr. Litzingers change in roles will become effective January 1, 2011.
 
In connection with Mr. Fohrers retirement, he will receive benefits pursuant to Edison Internationals Executive Retirement Plan, Executive Severance Plan, and terms and conditions applicable to the Edison International long-term incentive award grants.
 
Item 7.01        Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The full text of the Edison International press release, issued on December 9, 2010, announcing the management transition described in Item 5.02 above is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)     Exhibits
 
         See the Exhibit Index below.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  December 10, 2010
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
          Media Relations contact: Steven Conroy, (
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
626) 302-2255
: , (626) 302-2540
Investor Relations contact
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Scott Cunningham
 
 
 
ROSEMEAD, Calif., Dec. 9, 2010  Edison International (NYSE:EIX) announced today the appointment of new leaders at its two principal subsidiaries, Southern California Edison (SCE) and Edison Mission Group (EMG). Ronald L. Litzinger, who has led EMG since 2008, will become president of SCE. Pedro J. Pizarro, executive vice president of SCE, will become president of EMG, succeeding Litzinger. Both Litzinger and Pizarro will be chief executives at their respective companies.  The appointments take effect Jan. 1, 2011.
 
"Edison International places an emphasis on developing leadership talent," said Theodore F. Craver, Jr., Edison International chairman and CEO. "Ron Litzinger and Pedro Pizarro have proven their capabilities in a wide range of assignments.  They will address future opportunities and challenges with effectiveness, energy and enthusiasm," Craver said.
 
The appointments were made in light of the forthcoming retirements of SCEs long-time leaders, Alan J. Fohrer, 60, and John R. Fielder, 65.  "Southern California Edison has been led in recent years by two of the country's most respected utility executives, and we are grateful to them for all they have done for our company over their many years of dedicated service," said Craver.
 
Litzinger to Lead SCE
 
Litzinger, 51, has been with Edison International since 1987. He has held a wide range of executive positions, including vice president of Strategic Planning at Edison International, senior vice president of worldwide operations at EMG, and senior vice president of SCEs Transmission and Distribution Business Unit before assuming EMG's leadership in 2008. Litzinger is a graduate of the University of Washington and holds a masters degree in management from the University of Redlands. He is married with two children.
 
From operations to planning and from our regulated to our competitive businesses, Ron has been a key and respected leader of our enterprise, added Craver.  We look forward to his leading SCEs continuing success in the future.
 
Pizarro to Lead EMG
 
Pizarro, 45, came to Edison International in 1999 from McKinsey & Company. After starting as director of Strategic Planning at Edison International, and becoming vice president of Technology Business Development in 2000, he has risen quickly at SCE, having gone from vice president of Strategy and Business Development in 2001, to vice president of Power Procurement in 2004, vice president of Power Procurement in 2005, and executive vice president of Power Operations in 2008. Pizarro is a graduate of Harvard University and has a Ph.D. in chemistry from Caltech, where he is currently a member of the board of trustees. He is married with two children.
senior
 
-more-
 
 
 
 
 
Pedros commercial and utility experience, as well as the broad business perspective he acquired during his successful consulting career before joining Edison International, have enabled him to consistently provide us with innovative solutions to complex business issues, said Craver.  I believe he will continue to do that for our competitive business as we both address its challenges and seek growth opportunities.
 
Fohrer and Fielder Retire
 
Al Fohrer and John Fielder have each had long, distinguished careers in a number of positions at Edison International. Fohrer has been with Edison International for more than 37 years, having held a variety of offices, including chief financial officer at Edison International and chief executive at EMG, before assuming the top position at SCE in 2002. Fielder has spent more than 40 years at SCE, rising through SCEs technology and systems organization to senior vice president of Regulatory Policy and Affairs before assuming the president's role in 2005.
 
"Al and John have been invaluable members of our senior leadership team, and they are leaving behind strong legacies and foundations for the company's future leadership," Craver added.  I look forward to our continuing to build on what they have accomplished.
 
 
About Edison International
Edison International (NYSE:EIX), through its subsidiaries, is a generator and distributor of electric power and an investor in infrastructure and energy assets, including renewable energy. Headquartered in Rosemead, Calif., Edison International is the parent company of Southern California Edison, one of the nations largest electric utilities, and Edison Mission Group, a competitive power generation business and parent company to Edison Mission Energy and Edison Capital.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


