FILE:EIX/EIX-8K-20111212164009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers;
   
Compensatory
 Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On December 8, 2011, the Boards of Directors of Edison International and Southern California Edison Company (SCE) elected Peter J. Taylor to serve as a Director of Edison International and of SCE.  Mr. Taylor has joined the Boards as an independent Director and was also appointed to serve on the Boards Audit Committees until the next election of Directors at the Edison International and SCE 2012 Joint Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
 
Edison International has issued a press release announcing the election of Mr. Taylor to the Boards.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Taylor and any other person pursuant to which he was elected as a Director.  In connection with his service, Mr. Taylor will be compensated as a non-employee Director.  Mr. Taylor does not have any relationship or related transaction with Edison International or SCE that would require disclosure pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
Item 9.01         Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)              Exhibits
 
See the Exhibit Index below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  December 12, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
(626) 302-7982
Media Contact: Charles Coleman,
(626) 302-2540
Investor Relations Contact: Scott Cunningham,
 
ROSEMEAD, Calif., December 12, 2011  Edison International (NYSE:EIX) and Southern California Edison today announced that Peter J. Taylor, executive vice president and chief financial officer of the University of California (UC) system, has been elected to the board of directors of each company, effective December 8.
 
We are pleased to welcome Peter Taylor to our boards of directors, said Ted Craver, chairman and chief executive officer of Edison International. Peter combines a strong background in finance and public policy with a commitment to community service.
 
Taylor, 53, was appointed chief financial officer of the UC system in 2009, where he is responsible for overseeing the financial management of 10 campuses, five academic medical centers and the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory managed for the U.S. Department of Energy by the UC Office of the President.
 
Prior to joining the UC system, Taylor served as managing director of public finance at Lehman Brothers and Barclays Capital, assisting state and local governments on the west coast with financing infrastructure projects. He has also worked for GTE California in the telecommunications business and served as finance director for the California Democratic Party. Taylor began his career in the California State Legislature, becoming chief of staff to Assembly Majority Leader Mike Roos.
 
Taylor is chairman of the board of directors of the James Irvine Foundation and a member of the board of directors of the J. Paul Getty Trust, serving as chair of the audit committee.
 
A native of Southern California, Taylor earned a bachelors degree in political science from the University of California Los Angeles and a masters degree in public policy analysis from Claremont Graduate University.
 
 
About Edison International
Edison International (NYSE:EIX), through its subsidiaries, is a generator and distributor of electric power and an investor in infrastructure and energy assets, including renewable energy. Headquartered in Rosemead, Calif., Edison International is the parent company of Southern California Edison, one of the nations largest electric utilities, and Edison Mission Group, a competitive power generation business.
 


