FILE:EIX/EIX-8K-20110429161108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
(e)           Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
The Board of Directors of Edison International (the Board) previously approved, subject to shareholder approval, amendments to the Edison International 2007 Performance Incentive Plan (the 2007 Plan) that would (1) increase the number of shares of Edison Internationals common stock that may be delivered pursuant to awards granted under the 2007 Plan by an additional 28,000,000 shares, (2) increase the ratio used to count share usage for full-value awards granted under the 2007 Plan after February 26, 2009 from 1.75 shares to 3.5 shares for every one share of Edison International common stock issued under the 2007 Plan (for this purpose, a full-value award means any award granted under the 2007 Plan other than a stock option or stock appreciation right), and (3) extend Edison Internationals authority to grant awards under the 2007 Plan intended to qualify as performance-based awards within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code through the 2016 annual meeting of shareholders. Edison Internationals shareholders approved the amendments to the 2007 Plan on April 28, 2001.
 
The following summary of the 2007 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the 2007 Plan, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
The Board or one or more committees appointed by the Board administers the 2007 Plan. The Board has delegated general administrative authority for the 2007 Plan to its Compensation and Executive Personnel Committee. The administrator of the 2007 Plan has broad authority under the 2007 Plan to, among other things, select participants and determine the type(s) of award(s) that they are to receive, and determine the number of shares that are to be subject to awards and the terms and conditions of awards, including the price (if any) to be paid for the shares or the award.
 
Persons eligible to receive awards under the 2007 Plan include officers or employees of Edison International or any of its subsidiaries, and non-employee members of the Edison International and Southern California Edison Company Boards of Directors. Awards to non-employee Directors require Board approval.
 
After giving effect to the 2007 Plan amendments, the maximum number of shares of Edison Internationals common stock that may be issued or transferred pursuant to awards under the 2007 Plan equals the sum of: (1) 49,500,000 shares, plus (2) the number of any shares subject to awards granted under the Edison International Equity Compensation Plan (the ECP) and the Edison International 2000 Equity Plan (the 2000 Plan, together with the ECP, the Prior Plans) and outstanding on April 26, 2007, which expire, or for any reason are cancelled or terminated, after that date without being exercised or shares being delivered (including shares that become available because outstanding awards are settled in cash, but not any shares exchanged or withheld or deemed exchanged or withheld as full or partial payment for any award or for withholding taxes thereon).
 
The types of awards that may be granted under the 2007 Plan include stock, stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, stock units, performance shares, stock bonuses, and other forms of awards granted or denominated in Edison Internationals common stock or units of Edison International common stock, or similar rights to purchase or acquire shares of Edison International common stock, as well as certain cash bonus awards.
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
   
 
At Edison Internationals Annual Meeting of Shareholders on April 28, 2011, five matters were submitted to a vote of the shareholders: the election of twelve directors, ratification of the appointment of the independent registered public accounting firm, an advisory vote on executive compensation, an advisory vote on the frequency of the executive compensation advisory vote and a management proposal to approve an amendment to the 2007 Plan.
 
Shareholders elected twelve nominees to the Board of Directors. Each of the twelve Director-nominees received the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes cast and the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes required to constitute a quorum. The final vote results were as follows:
 
The proposal to ratify the appointment of the independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which received the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes cast and the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes required to constitute a quorum, was adopted. The final vote results were as follows:
 
 
The advisory vote on executive compensation, which received the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes cast and the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes required to constitute a quorum, was adopted. The final vote results were as follows:
 
 
Regarding the advisory vote on the frequency of the executive compensation advisory vote, the one year frequency received the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes cast and the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes required to constitute a quorum, and was adopted. As a result, Edison International will include the shareholder advisory vote on executive compensation every year in its proxy materials for shareholders meetings at which Directors will be elected and for which executive compensation information in required until the next required advisory vote on the frequency of the executive compensation advisory vote is held. The final vote results were as follows:
 
 
The total votes cast on the proposal to approve an amendment to the 2007 Plan constituted at least a quorum. The proposal, which received the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes cast and the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes required to constitute a quorum, was adopted. The final vote results were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
See the Exhibit Index below
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 29, 2011
 
 
 
 
 

 
1.
 
PURPOSE OF PLAN
 
The purpose of this Edison International 2007 Performance Incentive Plan (this ) of Edison International, a California corporation (the ), is to promote the operational performance of the Corporation and its affiliates by providing selected participants a financial incentive which reinforces and recognizes long-term corporate, organizational and individual performance and accomplishments.  This Plan is further intended to promote the interests of the Corporation and its shareholders by providing an additional means through the grant of awards to attract and retain selected participants and, through stock or stock-based awards, to help further align their interests with those of the Corporations shareholders.
 
Plan
Corporation
 
2.
 
ELIGIBILITY
 
The Administrator (as such term is defined in Section 3.1) may grant awards under this Plan only to those persons that the Administrator determines to be Eligible Persons.  An  is any person who is either: (a) an officer (whether or not a director) or employee of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries; or (b) a director of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries.  An Eligible Person who has been granted an award (a participant) may, if otherwise eligible, be granted additional awards if the Administrator shall so determine.  As used herein,  means any corporation or other entity a majority of whose outstanding voting stock or voting power is beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation; and  means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Eligible Person
Subsidiary
Board
 
3.
 
PLAN ADMINISTRATION
 
 
 
1
 
With respect to awards intended to satisfy the requirements for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ), this Plan shall be administered by a committee consisting solely of two or more outside directors (as this requirement is applied under Section 162(m) of the Code); provided, however, that the failure to satisfy such requirement shall not affect the validity of the action of any committee otherwise duly authorized and acting in the matter.  Award grants, and transactions in or involving awards, intended to be exempt under Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ), must be duly and timely authorized by the Board or a committee consisting solely of two or more non-employee directors (as this requirement is applied under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act).
Code
Exchange Act
 
To the extent required by any applicable listing agency, this Plan shall be administered by a committee composed entirely of independent directors (within the meaning of the applicable listing agency).
 
Any grant of an award to a non-employee member of the Board will be effective only if approved by the Board.  Any grant of an award to the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation or its Subsidiary Southern California Edison Company shall be determined by the Board Compensation and Executive Personnel Committees, or any other Board committee or body that has been delegated these responsibilities, if and as required by applicable stock exchange listing rules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing and except for an adjustment pursuant to Section 7.1 or a repricing approved by shareholders, in no case may the Administrator (1) amend an outstanding stock option or SAR to reduce the exercise price or base price of the award, (2) cancel, exchange, or surrender an outstanding stock option or SAR in exchange for cash or other awards for the purpose of repricing the award, or (3) cancel, exchange, or surrender an outstanding stock option or SAR in exchange for an option or SAR with an exercise or base price that is less than the exercise or base price of the original award.
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4.
 
SHARES OF COMMON STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN; SHARE LIMITS
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
Shares issued in respect of any Full-Value Award granted under this Plan after February 26, 2009 shall be counted against the foregoing Share Limit as shares for every one share actually issued in connection with such award.  (For example, if a stock bonus of 100 shares of Common Stock is granted under this Plan, shares shall be charged against the Share Limit in connection with that award.)  For this purpose, a  means any award under this Plan that is a stock option grant or a stock appreciation right grant.
3.5
350
Full-Value Award
not
 
The following limits also apply with respect to awards granted under this Plan:
 
 
 
 
Each of the foregoing numerical limits is subject to adjustment as contemplated by Section 4.3, Section 7.1, and Section 8.10.
 
 
 
5
 
 
5.
 
AWARDS
 
 
5.1.1
 
.  A stock option is the grant of a right to purchase a specified number of shares of Common Stock during a specified period as determined by the Administrator.  An option may be intended as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code (an ) or a nonqualified stock option (an option not intended to be an ISO).  The agreement evidencing the grant of an option will indicate if the option is intended as an ISO; otherwise it will be deemed to be a nonqualified stock option.  The maximum term of each option (ISO or nonqualified) shall be ten (10) years.  The per share exercise price for each option shall be the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant of the option.  When an option is exercised, the exercise price for the shares to be purchased shall be paid in full in cash or such other method permitted by the Administrator consistent with Section 5.5.  The Administrator shall establish the installments (if any) in which options shall become exercisable or shall vest (which may include, without limitation, performance and/or time-based schedules), or determine that no delayed exercisability or vesting is required, establish any applicable performance targets, and establish the events of termination or reversion of options; provided that in no event shall an option be subject to one or more performance-based vesting or exercise criteria unless the performance target used for purposes of such vesting or exercise requirement is based on one or more of the Business Criteria set forth in Section 5.2.2.
Stock Options
ISO
 
 
6
 
5.1.2
 
.  To the extent that the aggregate fair market value (determined at the time of grant of the applicable option) of stock with respect to which ISOs first become exercisable by a participant in any calendar year exceeds $100,000, taking into account both Common Stock subject to ISOs under this Plan and stock subject to ISOs under all other plans of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries (or any parent or predecessor corporation to the extent required by and within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder), such options shall be treated as nonqualified stock options.  In reducing the number of options treated as ISOs to meet the $100,000 limit, the most recently granted options shall be reduced first.  To the extent a reduction of simultaneously granted options is necessary to meet the $100,000 limit, the Administrator may, in the manner and to the extent permitted by law, designate which shares of Common Stock are to be treated as shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an ISO.  ISOs may only be granted to employees of the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries (for this purpose, the term subsidiary is used as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code, which generally requires an unbroken chain of ownership of at least 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of each subsidiary in the chain beginning with the Corporation and ending with the subsidiary in question).  There shall be imposed in any agreement or other document relating to the grant of ISOs such other terms and conditions as from time to time are required in order that the option be an incentive stock option as that term is defined in Section 422 of the Code.  No ISO may be granted to any person who, at the time the option is granted, owns (or is deemed to own under Section 424(d) of the Code) shares of outstanding Common Stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation, unless the exercise price of such option is at least 110% of the fair market value of the stock subject to the option and such option by its terms is not exercisable after the expiration of five years from the date such option is granted.
Additional Rules Applicable to ISOs
 
5.1.3
 
.  A stock appreciation right or  is a right to receive a payment, in cash and/or Common Stock, equal to the excess of the fair market value of a specified number of shares of Common Stock on the date the SAR is exercised over the  of the award, which base price shall be set forth in the applicable agreement evidencing the award and shall be not less than 100% of the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant of the SAR.  The maximum term of a SAR shall be ten (10) years.  The Administrator shall establish the installments (if any) in which SARs shall become exercisable or shall vest (which may include, without limitation, performance and/or time-based schedules), or determine that no delayed exercisability or vesting is required, establish any applicable performance targets, and establish the events of termination or reversion of SARs.
Stock Appreciation Rights
SAR
base price
 
5.1.4
 
.  The other types of awards that may be granted under this Plan include: (a) stock bonuses, restricted stock, performance stock, stock units, phantom stock, or similar rights to purchase or acquire shares, whether at a fixed or variable price or ratio related to the Common Stock, upon the passage of time, the occurrence of one or more events, or the satisfaction of performance criteria or other conditions, or any combination thereof; (b) any similar securities with a value derived from the value of or related to the Common Stock and/or returns thereon; or (c) cash awards granted consistent with Section 5.2 below.  Subject to Section 5.8, the Administrator shall establish the installments (if any) in which such awards shall become exercisable or shall vest (which may include, without limitation, performance and/or time-based schedules), or determine that no delayed exercisability or vesting is required, establish any applicable performance targets, and establish the events of termination or reversion of such awards; provided that in no event shall an award of restricted stock (as opposed to performance shares or stock units payable upon vesting in shares of Common Stock) be subject to one or more performance-based vesting criteria unless the performance target used for purposes of such vesting requirement is based on one or more of the Business Criteria set forth in Section 5.2.2.
Other Awards
; Dividend Equivalent Rights
Dividend equivalent rights may be granted as a separate award or in connection with another award under this Plan.  Any dividends and/or dividend equivalents as to the unvested portion of a restricted stock award that is subject to performance-based vesting requirements or the unvested portion of a stock unit award that is subject to performance-based vesting requirements will be subject to termination and forfeiture to the same extent as the corresponding portion of the award to which they relate.  
 
 
7
 
 
5.2.1
 
The eligible class of persons for Performance-Based Awards under this Section 5.2 shall be officers and employees of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries.  The Administrator approving Performance-Based Awards or making any certification required pursuant to Section 5.2.4 must be constituted as provided in Section 3.1 for awards that are intended as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Class; Administrator
.  
 
5.2.2
 
The grant, vesting, exercisability or payment of Performance-Based Awards may depend (or, in the case of Qualifying Options or Qualifying SARs, may also depend) on the degree of achievement of one or more performance goals relative to a pre-established targeted level or level using one or more of the Business Criteria set forth below (on an absolute or relative basis) for the Corporation on a consolidated basis or for one or more of the Corporations subsidiaries, segments, divisions or business units, or any combination of the foregoing.  Subject to Section 5.8, the Administrator shall establish the installments (if any) in which Performance-Based Awards shall become
Performance Goals
.  
 
 
8
 
 exercisable or shall vest (which may include, without limitation, performance and/or time-based schedules), establish any applicable performance targets, and establish the events of termination or reversion of such awards.  The specific performance goals for Performance-Based Awards (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs) shall be, on an absolute or relative basis, established based on one or more of the following business criteria () as selected by the Administrator in its sole discretion:  cost recovery from rates, operating revenue, net income from operations, net income, credit ratings, general and administrative costs, earnings (before or after interest, taxes, depreciation and/or amortization), growth in earnings, earnings per share, net present value, growth in net present value, return on equity, return on capital, economic value added, cash flow, asset sale revenue, sales revenue, capital investment, debt level, market capitalization, shareholder return, debt service, installation rates (e.g., electric meters), response time, infrastructure replacement rates, safety incident rates, availability factors (plants and energy projects), forced outage rates (plants and energy projects), match of power supply to demand, reliability (of power supplied to customers), customer satisfaction rates, environmental performance rates vs. standards, energy efficiency savings, emissions rates, productivity rates, process efficiency rates, workforce diversity, position vacancy rates, claim resolution rates, regulatory approval percentages, training completion rates, number of renewables projects, megawatts from renewables, percentage of megawatts from renewables, litigation results, steam generator replacement schedule, new peaker installation schedule, permitting and construction schedules, regulatory filing schedules, debt restructuring schedules, distribution system refurbishment and expansion, and advanced metering implementation.  To the extent these terms are applied under generally accepted accounting principles or in the financial reporting of the Corporation or of its Subsidiaries, these terms are used as so applied.  To qualify awards as performance-based under Section 162(m), the applicable Business Criterion (or Business Criteria, as the case may be) and specific performance goal or goals (targets) must be established and approved by the Administrator during the first 90 days of the performance period (and, in the case of performance periods of less than one year, in no event after 25% or more of the performance period has elapsed) and while performance relating to such target(s) remains substantially uncertain within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.  Performance targets shall be adjusted to mitigate the unbudgeted impact of material, unusual or nonrecurring gains and losses, accounting changes or other extraordinary events not foreseen at the time the targets were set unless the Administrator provides otherwise at the time of establishing the targets.  The applicable performance measurement period may not be less than three months nor more than 10 years.
Business Criteria
 
5.2.3
 
  Grants or awards under this Section 5.2 may be paid in cash or shares of Common Stock or any combination thereof.  Grants of Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs to any one participant in any one calendar year shall be subject to the limit set forth in Section 4.2(b).  The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be to Performance-Based Awards () that are granted to any one participant in any one calendar year shall not exceed 1,000,000shares, either individually or in the aggregate, subject to adjustment as provided in Section aggregate amount of compensation to be paid to any one participant in respect of all Performance-Based Awards payable only in cash of Common Stock and granted to that participant in any one calendar year shall not exceed $20,000,000.  Awards that are cancelled during the year shall not be counted against these limits to the extent permitted by Section 162(m) of the Code.
Form of Payment; Maximum Performance-Based Award
.
subject
including Performance-Based Awards payable in shares of Common Stock and Performance-Based Awards payable in cash where the amount of cash payable upon or following vesting of the award is determined with reference to the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at such time
 
7.1; provided that this limit shall not apply to
Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs
(which are covered by the limit of Section 4.2(b)).  The
(excluding
cash awards covered by the
preceding sentence where the cash payment is determined with reference to the Fair Market Value of a share
upon or following the vesting of the award)
 
 
9
 
5.2.4
 
Before any Performance-Based Award under this Section 5.2 (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs) is paid and to the extent required to qualify the award as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator must certify in writing that the performance target(s) and any other material terms of the Performance-Based Award were in fact timely satisfied.
Certification of Payment
.  
 
5.2.5
 
The Administrator will have the discretion to determine the restrictions or other limitations of the individual awards granted under this Section 5.2 including the authority to reduce awards, payouts or vesting or to pay no awards, in its sole discretion, if the Administrator preserves such authority at the time of grant by language to this effect in its authorizing resolutions or otherwise.
Reservation of Discretion
.  
 
5.2.6
 
As required pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, the Administrators authority to grant new awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs) shall terminate upon the first meeting of the Corporations shareholders that occurs in the fifth year following the year in which the Corporations shareholders first approve this Plan, subject to any subsequent extension that may be approved by shareholders.
Expiration of Grant Authority
.  
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In no event shall any shares newly-issued by the Corporation be issued for less than the minimum lawful consideration for such shares or for consideration other than consideration permitted by applicable state law.  Shares of Common Stock used to satisfy the exercise price of an option shall be valued at their fair market value on the date of exercise.  The Corporation will not be obligated to deliver any shares unless and until it receives full payment of the exercise or purchase price therefor and any related withholding obligations under Section 8.5 and any other conditions to exercise or purchase have been satisfied.  Unless otherwise expressly provided in an applicable agreement, the Administrator may at any time eliminate or limit a participants ability to pay the purchase or exercise price of any award or shares by any method other than cash payment to the Corporation.
 
 
11
 
 
 5.7
  
 
.
Transfer Restrictions
 
5.7.1
 
.  Unless otherwise expressly provided in (or pursuant to) this Section 5.7 or required by applicable law: (a) all awards are non-transferable and shall not be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, anticipation, alienation, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge; (b) awards shall be exercised only by the participant; and (c) amounts payable or shares issuable pursuant to any award shall be delivered only to (or for the account of) the participant.
Limitations on Exercise and Transfer
 
5.7.2
 
.  The Administrator may permit awards to be exercised by and paid to, or otherwise transferred to, other persons or entities pursuant to such conditions and procedures, including limitations on subsequent transfers, as the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, establish in writing.  Any permitted transfer shall be subject to compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws and shall not be for value (other than nominal consideration, settlement of marital property rights, or for interests in an entity in which more than 50% of the voting interests are held by the Eligible Person or by the Eligible Persons family members).
Exceptions
 
5.7.3
 
.  The exercise and transfer restrictions in Section 5.7.1 shall not apply to:
Further Exceptions to Limits on Transfer
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
6.
 
EFFECT OF TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OR SERVICE ON AWARDS
 
 
 
 
7.
 
ADJUSTMENTS; ACCELERATION
 
 
 
14
 
Unless otherwise expressly provided in an agreement evidencing the award, upon (or, as may be necessary to effect the adjustment, immediately prior to) any event or transaction described in the preceding paragraph or a sale of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Corporation as an entirety, the Administrator shall equitably and proportionately adjust the performance standards and/or period applicable to any then-outstanding performance-based awards to the extent necessary to preserve (but not increase) the level of incentives intended by the Plan and the then-outstanding performance-based awards.
 
It is intended that, if possible, any adjustments contemplated by the preceding two paragraphs be made in a manner that satisfies applicable legal, tax (including, without limitation and as applicable in the circumstances, Section 424 of the Code, Section 409A of the Code and Section 162(m) of the Code) and accounting (so as to not trigger any charge to earnings with respect to such adjustment) requirements.
 
Without limiting the generality of Section 3.3, any good faith determination by the Administrator as to whether an adjustment is required in the circumstances pursuant to this Section 7.1, and the extent and nature of any such adjustment, shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
 
 
 
15
 
Without limiting the preceding paragraph, in connection with any event referred to in the preceding paragraph or any change in control event defined in any agreement evidencing the award, the Administrator may, in its discretion, provide for the accelerated vesting of any award or awards as and to the extent determined by the Administrator in the circumstances.
 
The Administrator may adopt such valuation methodologies for outstanding awards as it deems reasonable in the event of a cash or property settlement and, in the case of options, SARs or similar rights, but without limitation on other methodologies, may base such settlement solely upon the excess if any of the per share amount payable upon or in respect of such event over the exercise or base price of the award.
 
In any of the events referred to in this Section 7.2, the Administrator may take such action contemplated by this Section 7.2 prior to such event (as opposed to on the occurrence of such event) to the extent that the Administrator deems the action necessary to permit the participant to realize the benefits intended to be conveyed with respect to the underlying shares.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrator may deem an acceleration to occur immediately prior to the applicable event and/or reinstate the original terms of the award if an event giving rise to an acceleration does not occur.
 
Without limiting the generality of Section 3.3, any good faith determination by the Administrator pursuant to its authority under this Section 7.2 shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
8.
 
OTHER PROVISIONS
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18
 
 
In any case where a tax is required to be withheld in connection with the delivery of shares of Common Stock under this Plan, the Administrator may in its sole discretion (subject to Section 8.1) require or grant (either at the time of the award or thereafter) to the participant the right to elect, pursuant to such rules and subject to such conditions as the Administrator may establish, to have the Corporation reduce the number of shares to be delivered by (or otherwise reacquire) the appropriate number of shares, valued in a consistent manner at their fair market value or at the sales price in accordance with authorized procedures for cashless exercises, or the Administrator may convert the right to receive such shares to a right to receive a cash payment only, as necessary to satisfy the minimum applicable withholding obligation on exercise, vesting or payment.  In no event shall the shares withheld exceed the minimum whole number of shares required for tax withholding under applicable law.
 
 8.6
  
 
.
Effective Date, Termination and Suspension, Amendments
 
8.6.1
 
.  This Plan is effective as of January 12, 2007, the date of its approval by the Board (the ).  This Plan shall be submitted for and subject to shareholder approval no later than twelve months after the Effective Date.  Unless earlier terminated by the Board, this Plan shall terminate at the close of business on the day before the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date.  After the termination of this Plan either upon such stated expiration date or its earlier termination by the Board, no additional awards may be granted under this Plan, but previously granted awards (and the authority of the Administrator with respect thereto, including the authority to amend such awards) shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions and the terms and conditions of this Plan.
Effective Date
Effective Date
 
8.6.2
 
.  The Board may, at any time, terminate or, from time to time, amend, modify or suspend this Plan, in whole or in part.  No awards may be granted during any period that the Board suspends this Plan.
Board Authorization
 
8.6.3
 
.  An amendment of this Plan shall be subject to approval by the Corporations shareholders if (a) shareholder approval of the amendment is required by applicable law or required under Sections 162, 422 or 424 of the Code to preserve the intended tax consequences of this Plan, (b) the amendment constitutes a material modification of the Plan (within the meaning of applicable listing rules) or shareholder approval of the amendment is otherwise required under applicable listing rules, or (c) shareholder approval of the amendment is otherwise deemed necessary or advisable by the Board.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in any case the following amendments shall be deemed to constitute material modifications of the Plan for purposes of clause (b) above that shall require shareholder approval: (i) any increase in the benefit or share limits set forth in this Plan (other than as a result of an adjustment pursuant to Section 7.1); (ii) any modification of the eligibility requirements set forth in this Plan; (iii) any amendment to the minimum vesting requirements set forth in this Plan; or (iv) any amendment to the no repricing provisions set forth in Sections 3.2(g) and 3.2(j).
Shareholder Approval
 
 
19
 
8.6.4
 
.  Without limiting any other express authority of the Administrator under (but subject to) the express limits of this Plan, the Administrator by agreement or resolution may waive conditions of or limitations on awards to participants that the Administrator in the prior exercise of its discretion has imposed, without the consent of a participant, and (subject to the requirements of Sections 3.2 and 8.6.5) may make other changes to the terms and conditions of awards.  Any amendment or other action that would constitute a repricing of an award is subject to the no repricing provision set forth in Section 3.2.
Amendments to Awards
 
8.6.5
 
.  No amendment, suspension or termination of this Plan or amendment of any outstanding agreement entered into under this Plan shall, without written consent of the participant, affect in any manner materially adverse to the participant any rights or benefits of the participant or obligations of the Corporation under any award granted under this Plan prior to the effective date of such change.  Changes, settlements and other actions contemplated by Section 7 shall not be deemed to constitute changes or amendments for purposes of this Section 8.6.
Limitations on Amendments to Plan and Awards
 
 
  8.8
  
 
.
Governing Law; Construction; Severability
 
8.8.1
 
.  This Plan, the awards, all documents evidencing awards and all other related documents shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California.
Choice of Law
 
8.8.2
 
.  If a court of competent jurisdiction holds any provision invalid and unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Plan shall continue in effect.
Severability
 
 
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
 


