FILE:EIX/EIX-8K-20121004084704.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 3, 2012
EDISON INTERNATIONAL
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
2244 Walnut Grove Avenue
(P.O. Box 976)
Rosemead, California 91770
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
(626) 302-2222
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
This current report's exhibits include forward-looking statements. Edison International based these forward-looking statements on its current expectations and projections about future events in light of its knowledge of facts as of the date of this current report and its assumptions about future circumstances. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that may be outside the control of Edison International. Edison International has no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether due to new information, future events, or otherwise. This current report should be read with Edison International's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Edison International's subsidiary, Southern California Edison Company ("SCE"), has issued the attached press release, which is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and submitted the attached cover letter to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
For more information regarding issues at SCEs San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsEdison International OverviewManagement Overview of SCESan Onofre Outage, Inspection and Repair Issues in Edison Internationals Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2012. This information will be updated as appropriate in Edison Internationals Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2012.
Item  9.01
    
Financial Statements and Exhibits
See the Exhibit Index below.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 4, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Media Contact: Media Relations
(626) 302-2255
Investor Relations Contact: Scott Cunningham
(626) 302-2540
Southern California Edison Submits Response to Confirmatory Action Letter and Unit 2 Restart Plans to Nuclear Regulatory Commission
 
ROSEMEAD, Calif. (Oct. 4, 2012)  Southern California Edison (SCE) has submitted its response to the Nuclear Regulatory Commissions (NRC) Confirmatory Action Letter, along with its restart plan for Unit 2 of its San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station. The response, the restart plan and supporting analyses can be read at www.SONGScommunity.com. The unit cannot be restarted until all plans have been approved by the NRC.
Safety is our top priority, and after conducting more than 170,000 inspections to understand and prevent the problem, and confirming the corrective actions we have taken to solve the problem with the top experts from around the world, we have concluded that Unit 2 at San Onofre can be operated safely and within industry norms, said Ron Litzinger, president of SCE. When implemented, this plan will get San Onofre Unit 2 back to providing reliable and clean energy to Southern Californians.
The response and restart plans are being submitted simultaneously to provide the NRC with all the relevant information needed to evaluate the full spectrum of repairs, corrective actions and additional safety measures proposed for restart and safe operations at the plant. Unit 3 will remain offline while the utility continues to study the potential solutions that are unique to that unit.
The response to the NRC covers the causes of the tube wear, repairs and corrective actions required for the Unit 2 steam generators, actions to prevent the extensive tube-to-tube wear observed in Unit 3, and inspection and safe operation protocols.
Exhibit 99.1
The restart plan covers the above repairs, corrective actions and operating parameters, and also includes additional monitoring, detection and response activities. Three independent experts in steam generators have performed analyses that validate the safety of the restart and operations plans.
Proposed additional monitoring, detection and response activities include:
SCE anticipates discussing its Confirmatory Action Letter response with the NRC in a public format.
Unit 2 was taken out of service Jan. 9, 2012, for a planned outage. Unit 3 was safely taken offline Jan. 31, 2012, after station operators detected a small leak in a steam generator tube. Unit 3 remains safely shut down for continued inspections, analysis and testing.
For updates, please visit www.SONGScommunity.com, or follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/SCE_SONGS and on www.facebook.com/SCE.
The San Onofre plant is jointly owned by SCE (78.21 percent), San Diego Gas & Electric (20 percent) and the city of Riverside (1.79 percent).
About Southern California Edison
An Edison International (NYSE:EIX) company, Southern California Edison is one of the nations largest electric utilities, serving a population of nearly 14 million via 4.9 million customer accounts in a 50,000-square-mile service area within Central, Coastal and Southern California.
-###-

Exhibit 99.2
October 3, 2012
Elmo E. Collins, Regional Administrator, Region IV
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
1600 East Lamar Blvd.
Arlington, Texas 76011-4511
Confirmatory Action Letter - Actions to Address Steam Generator Tube Degradation
San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, Unit 2
March 23, 2012, Steam Generator Return-to-Service Action Plan, San Onofre
Nuclear Generating Station
2. Letter from Mr. Elmo E. Collins (USNRC) to Mr. Peter T. Dietrich (SCE), dated
March 27, 2012, Confirmatory Action Letter 4-12-001, San Onofre Nuclear
Generating Station, Units 2 and 3, Commitments to Address Steam Generator
Tube Degradation
Dear Mr. Collins:
On March 23, 2012, Southern California Edison (SCE) submitted a letter (Reference 1) to the NRC describing actions it planned to take with respect to issues identified in the steam generator (SG) tubes of San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (SONGS) Units 2 and 3. On March 27, 2012, the NRC responded by issuing a Confirmatory Action Letter (CAL) (Reference 2), describing the actions that the NRC and SCE agreed would be completed to address those issues and ensure safe operations. The purpose of this letter is to report the completion of the Unit 2 CAL actions, which are to be completed prior to entry of Unit 2 into Mode 2 (as defined in the SONGS technical specifications).
Completion of the Unit 2 CAL actions is summarized below. Detailed information demonstrating fulfillment of Actions 1 and 2 of the CAL is provided in SCEs Unit 2 Return to Service Report which is included as Enclosure 2 of this letter. Enclosure 1 provides a list of new commitments identified in this letter.
P.O Box 128
San Clemente, CA 92672
(949) 368-6255 PAX 86255
Fax: (949) 368-6183
Pete.Dietrich@sce.com
    
CAL ACTION 1:
Southern California Edison Company (SCE) will determine the causes of the tube-to-tube interactions that resulted in steam generator tube wear in Unit 3, and will implement actions to prevent loss of integrity due to these causes in the Unit 2 steam generator tubes. SCE will establish a protocol of inspections and/or operational limits for Unit 2, including plans for a mid-cycle shutdown for further inspections.
COMPLETION OF CAL ACTION 1:
SCE has determined the causes of tube-to-tube interactions that resulted in SG tube wear in Unit 3, as summarized below. In addition, SCE implemented actions to prevent loss of tube integrity due to these causes in the Unit 2 SGs and established a protocol of inspections and operational limits, including plans for a mid-cycle shutdown. These are summarized under CAL Action 2.
Causes of Tube-to-Tube Interactions in Unit 3
As noted in Reference 1, the SG tube wear that caused a Unit 3 SG tube to leak was the result of tube-to-tube interaction. This type of wear was confirmed to exist in a number of other tubes in the same region in both Unit 3 SGs. Subsequent inspections of the Unit 2 SGs found this type of wear also existed in a single pair of tubes (one contact location) in one of the two Unit 2 SGs (SG 2E-089).
To determine the cause of the tube-to-tube wear (TTW), SCE performed extensive inspections and analyses, and commissioned the assistance of experts in the fields of thermal-hydraulics and in SG design, manufacturing, operation, and maintenance. Based on the results of these inspections and analyses, SCE determined the cause of the TTW in the two Unit 3 SGs was fluid elastic instability (FEI), resulting from the combination of localized high steam velocity, high steam void fraction, and insufficient contact forces between the tubes and the anti-vibration bars (AVBs). The FEI caused vibration of SG tubes in the in-plane direction that resulted in TTW in a localized area of the SGs. Details of SCEs investigation and cause evaluation are provided in Section 6 of Enclosure 2.
Corrective and Compensatory Actions, Inspections, and Operational Limits
To prevent loss of integrity due to FEI and TTW in Unit 2, SCE implemented corrective and compensatory actions and established a protocol of inspections and operational limits, including plans for a mid-cycle shutdown. These are described in CAL Action 2 below.
CAL ACTION 2:
Prior to entry of Unit 2 into Mode 2, SCE will submit to the NRC in writing the results of your assessment of Unit 2 steam generators, the protocol of inspections and/or operational limits, including schedule dates for a mid-cycle shutdown for further inspections, and the basis for SCEs conclusion that there is reasonable assurance, as required by NRC regulations, that the unit will operate safely.
    
COMPLETION OF CAL ACTION 2:
Assessment of Unit 2 Steam Generators
SCE evaluated the causes of TTW in the Unit 3 SGs and the applicability of those causes to Unit 2 and inspected the Unit 2 SGs for evidence of similar wear. SCE determined the TTW effects were much less pronounced in Unit 2 where two adjacent tubes were identified with TTW indications. The wear depth was less than 15% through-wall wear, which is below the threshold of 35% through-wall at which tube plugging is required. These two tubes are located in the same region of the SG as those with TTW in Unit 3. Given that the thermal hydraulic conditions are essentially the same in both units, the significantly lower level of TTW in Unit 2 has been attributed to manufacturing differences that resulted in greater contact between the tubes and AVBs in Unit 2, providing greater tube support. Details of SCEs investigation and cause evaluation are provided in Section 6 of Enclosure 2.
Actions to Prevent Loss of Integrity due to TTW in Unit 2 SG Tubes Including Protocol of Inspections and Operational Limits
SCE has taken actions to prevent loss of Unit 2 SG tube integrity due to TTW including establishing a protocol of inspections and operational limits to provide assurance that Unit 2 will operate safely. These actions are summarized below, with details provided in Section 8 of Enclosure 2. The operational assessments performed to confirm the adequacy of these operational limits are described in Section 10 of Enclosure 2.
To ensure that these actions are effective in preventing a loss of tube integrity due to FEI, SCE retained the experience and expertise of AREVA NP, Westinghouse Electric Company LLC, and Intertek/APTECH. These companies routinely perform operational assessments (OAs) of SGs for the U.S. nuclear industry. AREVA and Westinghouse also have extensive steam generator design experience. These companies were chartered with developing independent OAs using different methodologies to evaluate whether, under the operational limits imposed by SCE, SG tube integrity will be maintained until the next SG inspection. Each of these independent OAs
    
demonstrates that operating at 70% power will prevent loss of tube integrity due to TTW beyond the 150 cumulative day inspection interval.
The actions to operate at reduced power and shut down for a mid-cycle inspection within 150 cumulative days of operation are interim compensatory actions. SCE will reevaluate these actions during the mid-cycle inspection based on the data obtained during the inspections. In addition, SCE has established a project team to develop and implement a long term plan for repairing the SGs.
Defense-in-depth measures were developed to provide increased safety margin in the unlikely event of tube-to-tube degradation in the Unit 2 SGs during operation at 70% power. These actions, identified in Section 9 of Enclosure 2, will facilitate early detection of a SG tube leak and ensure immediate and appropriate plant operator and management response.
Basis for Conclusion of Reasonable Assurance
SCE has evaluated the causes of TTW in the Unit 3 SGs and, as described in response to CAL Action 2 above, has completed corrective and compensatory actions in Unit 2 to prevent loss of tube integrity due to these causes. Tubes within regions of the Unit 2 SGs that might be susceptible to FEI have been plugged. In addition, as described in response to CAL Action 2 above, SCE has established operational limits to ensure that thermal-hydraulic conditions associated with FEI are not present in the SGs. Specifically, operation of Unit 2 will be administratively limited to 70% power. Within 150 cumulative days of operation at or above 15% power, Unit 2 will be shut down for inspection to confirm the condition of the SG tubes. The analysis and OAs performed by SCE and independent industry experts demonstrate that under these conditions, tube integrity will be maintained. On this basis, SCE concludes that Unit 2 will operate safely.
We understand that the NRC will conduct inspections at SONGS to confirm the bases for the above information.
Please call me or Mr. Richard St. Onge at (949) 368-6240 should you require any further information.
Sincerely,
/s/ Peter T. Dietrich
Enclosures:    1. List of Commitments
2. Unit 2 Return to Service Report
R. Hall, NRC Project Manager, San Onofre Units 2 and 3
G. G. Warnick, NRC Senior Resident Inspector, San Onofre Units 2 and 3
R. E. Lantz, Branch Chief, Division of Reactor Projects, Region IV
ENCLOSURE 1
List of Commitments
Enclosure 1
List of Commitments
This table identifies actions discussed in this letter that Southern California Edison commits to perform. Any other actions discussed in this submittal are described for the NRCs information and are not commitments.


