FILE:K/K-8K-20030728074530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ----------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 July 28, 2003 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported) Commission file number 1-4171 KELLOGG COMPANY (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) State of Incorporation - Delaware IRS Employer Identification No. 38-0710690 ONE KELLOGG SQUARE BATTLE CREEK, MICHIGAN 49016-3599 (Address of principal executive offices) (including zip code) Registrant's telephone number: 269-961-2000
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure The information furnished pursuant to this Item 9 of this Current Report is being furnished pursuant to "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K. The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. On July 28, 2003, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended June 28, 2003, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1. SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Kellogg Company (Registrant) Dated: July 28, 2003 By s/John A. Bryant ------------------------------------------- John A. Bryant Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Table of Contents EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. 99 Press release dated July 28, 2003 issued by Kellogg Company.

Exhibit 99 Kellogg Company News For release: July 28, 2003 Media Contact: Wendy A. Lyon (269) 961-3799 Analyst Contact: John P. Renwick, CFA (269) 961-6365 KELLOGG EXCEEDS EXPECTATIONS IN SECOND QUARTER BATTLE CREEK, Mich. - Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today reported that its earnings exceeded expectations in its second quarter 2003, driven by strong sales growth across the Company. Reported net earnings were $203.9 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, compared to the year-ago period's $173.8 million, or $0.42 per share. This represents earnings per share growth of 19% year-over-year. Through the first six months, reported net earnings were $367.8 million, or $0.90 per share, compared to year-earlier earnings of $326.4 million, or $0.79 per share. Excluding $0.02 of favorable legal settlements in 2002's first quarter, EPS growth during the first half of 2003 was 17%. EPS gains in both the quarter and the six-month period came against double-digit increases a year ago. "We enter the second half of 2003 with solid top-line growth momentum, increasing profitability, substantial reinvestment in brand-building and productivity, and improving financial flexibility," said Carlos Gutierrez, Kellogg's chairman and chief executive officer. "Because of our strong momentum, we can now turn our sights in the second half to more reinvestment for future growth." Net sales in the second quarter increased by 5.8%, to $2.25 billion. Foreign currency translation contributed 3.1 percentage points to the sales growth, partially offset by an adverse 0.8 percentage-point impact of two small divestitures over the previous twelve months. Excluding this currency translation and these divestitures, Kellogg's internal sales growth was a solid 3.5%, which came against a strong year-earlier internal growth rate of 4.2%. Kellogg's sales growth was broad-based. Internal net sales for Kellogg USA increased by more than 2%. U.S. Cereal sales were up 3%, despite comparing against a strong 6% gain in the year-ago period. Once again, this growth was driven by new products and strong consumer promotions. Despite continued softness in cookies sales, the elimination of numerous products (stock-keeping units), and the discontinuation of a major custom-manufacturing account, U.S. Snacks recorded a 1% internal net sales gain in the quarter, which excludes the aforementioned divestitures. A return to innovation and consumer promotions drove solid gains in key brands across the portfolio, and led to sales and category share gains in wholesome snacks and crackers. Collectively, all other U.S. businesses posted 3% internal net sales growth in the quarter, with increases in each: Food away from home, Eggo frozen waffles, Morningstar Farms veggie foods, and Pop-Tarts toaster pastries. Kellogg International posted nearly a 15% increase in net sales, or 5% in local currencies, driven by the implementation of Volume to Value and its focus on new products and favorable mix. In Europe, the Company recorded currency-adjusted sales growth of more than 4%, as innovation and brand-building continued to lift sales in key markets. Notable was the U.K., which experienced strong sales growth and category share gains in both cereal and snacks. Kellogg's Latin American business grew almost 9% in local currencies, led by Mexico's strong growth in cereal and in snacks. All other segments of Kellogg International collectively posted local-currency sales growth of about 5%, driven by cereal and snacks growth in Canada and Australia. "Our sales growth was again solid and all of our major businesses are contributing to this momentum," commented Mr. Gutierrez. "Volume to Value is working. Our line-up of new products, advertising, and consumer promotions is stronger than ever, and we continue to improve our execution. This should allow us to continue to grow cereal and expand snacks, and we are already looking to other growth opportunities in categories or segments that are close to ours and that can leverage our strong brands. Several such launches are slated for the second half, including Krave energy snack bars, Eggo syrups and toaster sticks, and Nutri-Grain granola bars." Operating profit in the quarter increased by 11%, to $414 million, driven once again by sales growth and cost control, as well as favorable currency translation. Gross margin declined slightly because of a write-off of certain production assets in U.S. Snacks, related to our ongoing efforts to improve productivity. However, higher commodity, benefits, and energy costs were effectively offset by operating leverage, productivity initiatives, sales mix, and modest price increases taken earlier this year. This underlying profitability was used to invest in brand-building, with advertising and consumer promotion increasing at a rate that was well in excess of net sales growth. "The growth in our earnings was excellent, and so was its quality. By improving our profitability, we were able to reinvest in our brands and even absorb up-front expenses related to cost-savings programs," Mr. Gutierrez said. "This reinvestment is the key to sustaining our momentum, and we anticipate even more in the second half of the year." Cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $234 million in the quarter, which was up modestly year-over-year and brought year-to-date cash flow to $392 million. Once again, the quarter featured improved working capital efficiency and discipline on capital expenditure. While still down from an unusually strong year-ago level, cash flow remains ahead of internal expectations. Mr. Gutierrez said, "Reflecting our Manage for Cash principle, we continue to improve upon already impressive progress on working capital, and our cash flow continues to improve the Company's financial flexibility." Kellogg Endorses Upper End of its 2003 Guidance Citing its strong first-half performance, Kellogg moved its 2003 earnings per share guidance from $1.86-1.90 toward the upper end of that range, or $1.88-1.90. The Company's strong momentum, coupled with favorable currency translation, should give it the flexibility in the second half of 2003 to accelerate investment in brand-building and to absorb up-front expenses related to launching various cost-savings initiatives. Mr. Gutierrez concluded, "In the first half, our solid momentum flowed through to our earnings per share, reinforcing a front-loaded plan that should give share owners confidence in our full-year guidance. In the second half, we expect this momentum to continue, but we intend to reinvest more in our business - - both in the form of brand-building and cost-savings initiatives - to provide us with better visibility into 2004 and our target of high single-digit EPS growth. The result should be strong 2003 performance that is consistent with our long-term growth targets, and a head start toward sustaining dependable financial performance in the future." About Kellogg Company With 2002 sales of $8.3 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading manufacturer of convenience foods such as cereal bars, frozen waffles, toaster pastries, cookies, and crackers. The Company also produces natural and vegetarian foods. Founded in 1906 and dedicated to providing nutritious, good-tasting foods, Kellogg has manufacturing facilities in 18 countries and its products are sold in more than 180 countries. Kellogg brands include Kellogg's, Keebler, Pop-Tarts, Eggo, Nutri-Grain, Cheez-It, Morningstar Farms, and Kashi. For more information, or for any non-GAAP financial information provided in response to questions asked during today's conference call, please visit Kellogg's web site at www.kelloggcompany.com. Forward-Looking Statements Disclosure This news release contains forward-looking statements related to business performance, cash flow, costs, sales, brand-building, productivity, momentum, profitability, earnings, financial flexibility, and growth. Actual performance may differ materially from these statements due to factors related to the Keebler acquisition, including integration problems, failures to achieve synergies, unanticipated liabilities, and the substantial amount of indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition (which could, among other things, hinder the Company's ability to adjust rapidly, make the Company more vulnerable to a downturn, and place the Company at a competitive disadvantage to less-leveraged companies); competitive conditions and their impact; pricing and promotional spending; the effectiveness of marketing spending and programs; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; the success of innovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying amount of goodwill and other intangibles; the availability of and interest rates on short-term financing; commodity and energy prices and labor costs; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; U.S. and foreign economic factors such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, and foreign currency translations or unavailability; legal and regulatory factors; business disruption or other losses from terrorist acts or political unrest; and other factors.


