FILE:K/K-8K-20040422081518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ----------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 April 22, 2004 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported) Commission file number 1-4171 KELLOGG COMPANY (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) State of Incorporation - Delaware IRS Employer Identification No. 38-0710690 ONE KELLOGG SQUARE BATTLE CREEK, MICHIGAN 49016-3599 (Address of principal executive offices) (including zip code) Registrant's telephone number: 269-961-2000 Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. On April 22, 2004, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended March 27, 2004, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1. SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Kellogg Company (Registrant) Dated: April 22, 2004 By s/John A. Bryant ------------------------------------------- John A. Bryant Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Table of Contents EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. 99.1 Press release dated April 22, 2004 issued by Kellogg Company.

Kellogg Company News For release: April 22, 2004 Analyst /Media John P. Renwick, CFA (269) 961-6365 Contacts: Simon D. Burton, CFA (269) 961-6636 KELLOGG ANNOUNCES OUTSTANDING GROWTH IN FIRST QUARTER BATTLE CREEK, Mich. - Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today reported better- than-expected first-quarter 2004 earnings, which were 34% higher than the year-ago period on the strength of 11% sales growth. The strong start prompted Kellogg earlier this month to raise its earnings expectations for the full year, despite ongoing commodity-cost inflation and the Company's decision to incur increased asset write-offs and up-front costs related to additional cost-reduction projects. Reported net earnings for the quarter were $219.8 million, or $0.53 per diluted share, a 34% increase from last year's $163.9 million, or $0.40 per share. This performance was principally attributable to sales growth momentum across the Company, a result of brand-building investment, successful product innovation, and solid execution. "This truly was an outstanding quarter in every respect," said Carlos Gutierrez, Kellogg's chairman and chief executive officer. "Our sales growth was exceptional and broad-based. We overcame substantially higher commodity and benefits costs, and we reinvested for the future by boosting our brand building and absorbing expenses related to cost-reduction projects. And through it all, we were able to significantly exceed our original forecasts for earnings and cash flow." Reported net sales in the quarter increased by 11% to $2.4 billion. Internal net sales growth, which excludes foreign-currency translation, was 6.5%, the Company's highest internal growth rate in five years. Kellogg North America reported net sales growth of 6%, or 5% excluding the impact of foreign currency. The segment's retail cereal sales rose 4% in local currencies, as new products and effective consumer promotions drove category share gains in both the U.S. and Canada. Retail snacks posted local- currenncy sales growth of 6% in North America, led by new products in the U.S. and Canada. The North America Frozen & Alternative Channels businesses collectively posted local-currency sales growth of 4%, driven by gains by the Eggo and Morningstar Farms brands and the foodservice channel. Kellogg International reported net sales growth of 24% in the quarter, or 10% in local currencies. In Latin America, sales were up 17% on a local-currency basis, driven by strong growth in both cereal and snacks in Mexico. Europe's local-currency sales growth was 7%, led by cereal and snacks growth in the U.K. Sales in the Asia Pacific region were up 11% in local currencies, with notable gains in Japan and Australia. Operating profit was $420 million in the quarter, a 21% increase over the year-ago period. Higher net sales, a favorable product mix, and productivity savings more than offset the impact of increased raw materials prices and a double-digit increase in brand-building investment. Net earnings growth was augmented by the effect of lower interest expense and a modestly reduced effective tax rate. Cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $211 million in the quarter, exceeding the year-earlier quarter by 33 percent. Kellogg Reaffirms 2004 Outlook Kellogg reiterated its EPS outlook for 2004. Earlier this month, the Company raised its full-year 2004 earnings-per-share guidance to $2.07-2.11, from a previous range of $2.05-2.09. This revised guidance represents growth of 8-10%, or modestly above the Company's long-term target of high single-digit growth. Underscoring the quality of these expected earnings, Kellogg also announced that this range now includes a higher estimate for up-front costs and write-offs related to capacity rationalizations and cost-reduction initiatives. Whereas these costs and write-offs were previously projected to be $0.05 per share, they are now expected to amount to $0.10-0.12 per share. Mr. Gutierrez concluded, "By getting off to such a strong start, we now have a front-loaded earnings forecast for the year, one that should give investors confidence in our ability to post another year of dependable growth. This is particularly gratifying given the enormous cost pressures we face in the form of commodities and benefits costs. Meanwhile, our plans call for continued reinvestment in brand building and cost-savings initiatives, which should allow us to sustain our momentum beyond 2004." About Kellogg Company With 2003 sales of nearly $9 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, frozen waffles and meat alternatives. The Company's brands include Kellogg's, Keebler, Pop-Tarts, Eggo, Cheez-It, Nutri-Grain, Rice Krispies, Murray, Austin, Morningstar Farms, Famous Amos, Carr's, Plantation, Ready Crust, and Kashi. Kellogg products are manufactured in 17 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit Kellogg's web site at http://www.kelloggcompany.com. Forward-Looking Statements Disclosure This news release contains forward-looking statements related to business performance, sales, brand building, costs and write-offs, cost savings, operating profit, earnings and growth. Actual performance may differ materially from these statements due to factors related to the substantial amount of indebtedness incurred to finance the Keebler Foods acquisition (which could, among other things, hinder the Company's ability to adjust rapidly, make the Company more vulnerable to a downturn, and place the Company at a competitive disadvantage to less-leveraged companies); competitive conditions and their impact; the effectiveness of advertising, pricing and promotional spending; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; the success of innovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the availability of and interest rates on short-term financing; commodity and energy prices and labor costs; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; U.S. and foreign economic factors such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, and foreign currency conversions or unavailability; legal and regulatory factors; business disruption or other losses from terrorist acts or political unrest; and other factors.
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS (millions, except per share data)
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA (millions)
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (millions)
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET*



