FILE:K/K-8K-20050727081536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 19434, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On July 27, 2005, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended July 2, 2005, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
      Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today reported excellent sales, operating profit, and earnings growth despite increased costs and significant investment in future growth.
BATTLE CREEK, Mich.
     Reported net earnings for the quarter were $259.0 million, a 9% increase from last year's $237.4 million. Earnings were $0.62 per diluted share, a 9% increase from last year's $0.57 per share. Each of the Company's reporting segments posted sales growth as a result of growth in existing products, successful innovation, and strong brand-building programs.
     "We are pleased to report another quarter of strong results," said Jim Jenness, Kellogg's chairman and chief executive officer. "Business momentum continued in the second quarter and we again capitalized on this strength through increased investment in future growth."
     Reported net sales increased by 8% to $2.6 billion in the second quarter. Internal net sales growth, which excludes the effect of foreign-currency translation, was 7% and built on very strong growth of 5% in the second quarter of last year.
     Kellogg North America posted internal net sales growth of 8%, as a result of growth in each of the constituent businesses. North America Retail Cereal internal net sales increased by 10% as a result of successful brand-building campaigns and new product introductions across the business. North America Retail Snacks also posted internal sales growth of 8% as a result of growth in the toaster pastries, crackers, and wholesome snacks businesses. The cookies business posted a low single-digit decrease in net sales as a result of difficult comparisons resulting from the shipment of a significant number of new products in the second quarter of last year. The North America Frozen and Specialty Channels businesses collectively posted internal sales growth of 5%, driven by high single-digit sales growth in the brand and the Food-Away-From-Home businesses.
Eggo
 
     Kellogg International reported net sales growth of 7% in the second quarter, or 3% excluding the favorable effect of currency translation. Internal sales growth in Latin America was 8%, resulting from strong results in both the cereal and snacks businesses. Europe's local-currency sales growth was 1%, as growth in the snacks business was partially offset by unchanged cereal sales. The European results were significantly affected by a trade issue, which has been subsequently resolved. Internal net sales in the Asia Pacific region increased by 8%, also driven by gains in both cereal and snacks.
     Quarterly operating profit was $473 million in the quarter, an increase of 8% from the comparable period of last year. The continued negative impact of increased benefit costs and high energy costs was more than offset by the excellent net sales growth, improved product mix, operating leverage, lower commodity costs, and productivity savings. In addition, the Company increased its investment in brand building at a double-digit rate during the quarter; investment in up-front costs related to cost-reduction projects was unchanged from the second quarter of last year. Interest expense increased due to the early retirement of debt during the quarter.
     Year-to-date cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $474 million, which represents 22% growth from the comparable period last year.
      
      
     Kellogg raised its guidance for full-year earnings to a range between $2.30 and $2.33 per share. This guidance includes significantly greater than anticipated investment in brand building and an estimate for up-front costs and write-offs related to capacity rationalizations and cost-reduction initiatives of approximately $0.15 per share.
     Mr. Jenness concluded, "Our performance through the first half of the year has been very strong. It is this performance that allows us the flexibility to increase our guidance while investing aggressively in our businesses around the world. Gross margin and operating leverage provide us the opportunity to effectively market increased levels of innovation and drive growth for the remainder of 2005 and into next year."
 
     With 2004 sales of nearly $10 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, frozen waffles, and meat alternatives. The Company's brands include and Kellogg products are manufactured in 17 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit Kellogg's web site at .
Kellogg's, Keebler, Pop-Tarts, Eggo, Cheez-It, Club, Nutri-Grain, Rice Krispies, All-Bran, Special K, Mini-Wheats, Chips Deluxe, Sandies, Morningstar Farms, Famous Amos,
Kashi.
http://www.kelloggcompany.com
      
      
      
     This news release contains forward-looking statements related to business performance, investments, earnings, costs, and write-offs. Actual performance may differ materially from these statements due to competitive conditions and their impact; the effectiveness of advertising, pricing and promotional spending; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; the success of innovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the availability of and interest rates on short-term financing; commodity and energy prices and labor costs; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; U.S. and foreign economic factors such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, and foreign currency conversions or unavailability; legal and regulatory factors; business disruption or other losses from terrorist acts or political unrest; and other factors.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
(millions, except per share data)
     
 
Other income (expense), net includes non-operating items such as interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses, charitable donations, and gains on asset sales.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA
(millions)
     
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(millions)
* We use this non-GAAP measure of cash flow to focus management and investors on the amount of cash available for debt reduction, dividend distributions, acquisition opportunities, and share repurchase.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
* Condensed from audited financial statements.


