FILE:K/K-8K-20050428081537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 19434, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On April 28, 2005, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended April 2, 2005, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
      Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today reported strong sales and earnings growth. Earnings exceeded the very strong results posted in the first quarter of 2004 despite a significant amount of investment in the business. Last month the Company raised its expectations for first quarter earnings due to continued strong broad-based business strength and momentum.
BATTLE CREEK, Mich.
     Reported net earnings for the quarter were $254.7 million, a 16% increase from last year's $219.8 million. Earnings were $0.61 per diluted share, a 15% increase from last year's $0.53 per share. Each of the Company's businesses contributed to the growth which resulted from successful innovation, brand building, investment, and strong execution.
     "This was another excellent quarter for the Company," said Jim Jenness, Kellogg's chairman and chief executive officer. "We delivered growth across our businesses while facing continued cost pressures. Most importantly, though, we increased the level of investment we plan to make in our business. These investments are made to drive sustainable growth in the future."
     Reported net sales in the quarter increased by 8% to $2.6 billion. Internal net sales growth, which excludes foreign-currency translation, was 6% and built on very strong growth of 7% in the comparable period of last year.
     Kellogg North America achieved internal net sales growth of 7%, driven by growth in the each of the businesses. The segment's retail cereal sales rose 4% in local currencies, as a result of successful new product introductions and effective brand-building campaigns. North America Retail Snacks posted internal sales growth of 7%, as each of its businesses, cookies, crackers, wholesome snacks, and toaster pastries, posted sales increases. The North America Frozen and Specialty Channels businesses collectively posted local-currency sales growth of 12%, driven by
 
strong double-digit gains posted by the brand. The Food-Away-From-Home businesses posted high single-digit sales growth.
Eggo
     Kellogg International reported net sales growth of 8% in the quarter, or 5% excluding the favorable effect of currency translation; this built on 10% internal sales growth in the first quarter of last year. Internal sales growth in Latin America was 12%, driven by the cereal and snacks businesses, both of which posted double-digit growth. Europe's local-currency sales growth was 3%, which built on strong 7% internal growth in the first quarter of 2004. Internal net sales in the Asia Pacific region increased by 4%, also driven by gains in cereal and snacks
     Quarterly operating profit was $468 million in the quarter, an increase of 11% from the first quarter of last year. Higher net sales, improved product mix, operating leverage, and productivity savings contributed to the growth; these factors more than offset the negative impact of increased benefit costs and significant investment in efficiency initiatives and brand-building activities. Slightly lower interest expense and a lower tax rate also added to net income growth.
     Cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $169 million in the first quarter. The decline from last year's very strong $211 million was primarily due to an interest payment of $112 million, which was made during the quarter; the comparable payment fell in the second quarter of 2004.
     Kellogg stated that it now expects full-year earnings at the high end of the previously stated range of $2.28-2.32 per share. Last month, the Company raised its full-year 2005 estimate for up-front costs related to cost-reduction initiatives to approximately $0.15 per share. The previous projection had been for these costs to equal $0.08-0.10 per share.
     In addition, the Company announced that its Board of Directors has approved a 10% increase in the dividend effective in the third quarter of 2005.
     Mr. Jenness concluded, "We posted a very strong start to 2005. Our businesses around the world have momentum, and our employees continue to execute our strategy and operating
 
principles. It is this excellent performance that gives us additional confidence in our ability to meet our long-term targets in 2005, even while making significant investment in our future growth. We are doing the right things for the business and remain committed to generating sustainable and dependable growth."
     With 2004 sales of nearly $10 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, frozen waffles, and meat alternatives. The Company's brands include and Kellogg products are manufactured in 17 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit Kellogg's web site at
Kellogg's, Keebler, Pop-Tarts, Eggo, Cheez-It, Nutri-Grain, Rice Krispies, Murray, Austin, Morningstar Farms, Famous Amos, Carr's, Plantation, Ready Crust,
Kashi.
http://www.kelloggcompany.com.
     This news release contains forward-looking statements related to business performance, investments, earnings, costs, and write-offs. Actual performance may differ materially from these statements due to factors related to the substantial amount of indebtedness incurred to finance the Keebler Foods acquisition (which could, among other things, hinder the Company's ability to adjust rapidly, make the Company more vulnerable to a downturn, and place the Company at a competitive disadvantage to less-leveraged companies); competitive conditions and their impact; the effectiveness of advertising, pricing and promotional spending; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; the success of innovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the availability of and interest rates on short-term financing; commodity and energy prices and labor costs; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; U.S. and foreign economic factors such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, and foreign currency conversions or unavailability; legal and regulatory factors; business disruption or other losses from terrorist acts or political unrest; and other factors.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
(millions, except per share data)
Other income (expense), net includes non-operating items such as interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses, charitable donations, and gains on asset sales.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA
(millions)
(a) Includes Australia and Asia.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(millions)
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
* Condensed from audited financial statements.


