FILE:K/K-8K-20060727081539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On July 27, 2006, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended July 1, 2006, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.01.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.01
      Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today reported continued strong sales and earnings growth ahead of expectations for the second quarter of 2006. The Company managed to post these results despite the demanding cost environment facing the entire industry.
BATTLE CREEK, Mich.
     Reported net earnings for the quarter were $266.5 million, a 3% increase from last year's $259.0 million. The effect of expensing stock options in the quarter lowered reported net earnings per share by approximately 5%, or $.03. Reported diluted net earnings per share were $0.67, an 8% increase from last year's $0.62 per share.
     "The combination of our focused strategy, good investment decisions and top-line growth remain the key enablers of our strong earnings performance," said Jim Jenness, Kellogg's chairman and chief executive officer. "As we look at the business, our brand equities are strong, our innovation is working, and we continue to invest for the long term health of the business, all of which gives us continued confidence in the year."
     Reported net sales in the quarter increased by 7% to $2.77 billion. Internal net sales, which exclude the effect of foreign-currency translation, also grew 7% and built on the very strong 7% internal growth in the second quarter of last year. The internal sales growth rate for the full year is expected to be in the mid single-digits, ahead of the Company's long-term target of low single-digit growth.
     Kellogg North America reported second quarter net sales growth of 9% and internal net sales growth of 8%, driven by strong growth in the Retail Cereal, Retail Snacks, and Frozen & Specialty Channels businesses. For the quarter, all major North American retail businesses gained category share in measured channels. Retail Cereal posted internal sales growth of 4%, driven by strong growth in various brands including Kellogg's and Kashi brand cereals.
Frosted Mini Wheats
 
This growth came on top of the strong double-digit growth in the second quarter last year. The Retail Snacks segment posted internal sales growth of 11% on top of the 8% growth in the second quarter of last year. This was driven by strong growth in , , Kellogg's wholesome snacks and fruit snacks, as well as continued growth in cookies. The North America Frozen and Specialty Channels businesses combined posted internal sales growth of 9% driven by double-digit growth in and veggie foods, strong retail acceptance of new Kashi Frozen entrees, and strong growth in convenience and drug stores.
Pop-Tarts
Cheez-It
Eggo
     Kellogg International reported second quarter net sales growth of 4%, or 5% excluding the effect of currency translation. Latin America posted internal sales growth of 10%, on top of the 8% growth in the second quarter of last year, driven by strong growth in both the cereal and snacks businesses. In Mexico, the Company gained over 2 category share points in cereal during the quarter. The European region reported internal net sales growth of 4%, driven by good growth in the United Kingdom, Ireland, France and Italy. The Asia Pacific region posted an internal net sales decline of less than 1% due, in part, to a difficult comparison with the prior year when internal sales grew 8 percent.
     Reported operating profit was $461.2 million in the second quarter, a 2% decline from the second quarter of last year. Internal operating profit, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange and stock option expense, increased 1% in the second quarter and 3% in the year-to-date period, ahead of the Company's expectations. This growth was achieved despite continued investments in brand building and innovation, as well as unprecedented increases in fuel, energy and commodity costs. Up-front costs in the quarter were $.03 per share, the same as the second quarter of last year. The Company continues to forecast up-front cost for the full year to be approximately $.15 per share.
     Cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $339.7 million in the year-to-date period, ahead of Company expectations. The decline from the prior year was primarily the result of an increase in capital expenditures and core working capital. Core working capital, measured as a percentage of rolling twelve-month sales, was 6.9% at the end of the second quarter of 2006, which represented a 20 basis point improvement from the second quarter of last year.
 
     Kellogg continues to expect full-year net earnings to be in a range of $2.45-2.49 per share, including approximately $0.15 per share of up-front costs and stock option expense of $0.10 per share. The Company now expects combined fuel, energy and commodity costs to impact full year results by up to $.30 per share, an increase from the Company's previous guidance of up to $.20 per share, and up from the Company's original expectation of $.13 to $.16 per share. In addition, benefit costs are expected to increase $.05 to $.07 per share for the full year, which is at the high end of the Company's prior guidance. As a result, gross margin is now expected to decline by approximately 50 basis points for the full year. However, gross margin is expected to increase in the second half of the year. The Company expects growth in brand building investment to approximate internal net sales growth. Full-year cash flow is expected to be in a range between $900 million and $975 million.
     Mr. Jenness concluded, "We continue to have confidence in the strength of our business model, in spite of the input cost outlook. The strong results this quarter are a testament to the hard work of all the Kellogg employees around the world. Our confidence continues that this will be another year of sustainable, dependable growth."
     With 2005 sales in excess of $10 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, frozen waffles, and veggie foods. The Company's brands include and Kellogg products are manufactured in 17 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit Kellogg's web site at .
Kellogg's, Keebler, Pop-Tarts, Eggo, Cheez-It, Club, Nutri-Grain, Rice Krispies, All-Bran, Special K, Mini-Wheats, Chips Deluxe, Sandies, Morningstar Farms, Famous Amos,
Kashi.
http://www.kelloggcompany.com
 
     This news release contains forward-looking statements related to business performance, sales, expenses, margins, growth, innovation, earnings, cash flow, and costs. Actual performance may differ materially from these statements due to factors related to competitive conditions and their impact; the effectiveness of advertising, pricing and promotional spending; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; the success of innovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the availability of and interest rates on short-term financing; commodity, packaging, and energy prices and labor costs; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses and other factors; the underlying price and volatility of the Company's common stock and the impact of variables affecting the valuation of equity-based employee awards; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; U.S. and foreign economic factors such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, and foreign currency conversions or unavailability; legal and regulatory factors; business disruption or other losses from terrorist acts or political unrest; and other factors.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
(millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA
(millions)
 
 
(a) Includes Australia and Asia.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(millions)
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
* Condensed from audited financial statements.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
IMPACT OF STOCK COMPENSATION RECOGNIZED IN 2006 UNDER SFAS NO. 123(R) "SHARE-BASED PAYMENT"
 
 
(millions, except per share data)
*Results excluding the impact of adopting SFAS No.123(R) are Non-GAAP measures which management is using during 2006 to assist investors in assessing the Company's financial operating performance against comparable periods.
 
 


