FILE:K/K-8K-20060427080611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On April 27, 2006, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended April 1, 2006, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
      Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today reported continued strong sales and earnings growth. Both exceeded the Company's long-term internal growth targets and built on very strong growth posted in the first quarter of 2005.
BATTLE CREEK, Mich.
     Reported net earnings for the quarter were $274.1 million, an 8% increase from last year's $254.7 million. Earnings were $0.68 per diluted share, an 11% increase from last year's $0.61 per share. This year's results built on very strong 15% growth in the comparable period of last year. The effect of including stock option expense in the quarter effectively lowered earnings by $0.03 per share; this effect was essentially offset by there being fewer up-front costs from cost-reduction initiatives than in the first quarter of last year.
     "The strong momentum we've built in recent years continued through the first quarter," said Jim Jenness, Kellogg's chairman and chief executive officer. "We exceeded our growth targets, made significant investment in our businesses, and overcame continued cost pressures. These results again demonstrate the strength and flexibility of our business model."
     Reported net sales in the quarter increased by 6% to $2.7 billion. Internal net sales growth, which excludes the effect of foreign-currency translation, was 7% and built on very strong growth of 6% in the first quarter of last year.
     Kellogg North America posted reported net sales growth of 9% and internal net sales growth of 8%, driven by strong growth in the Retail Cereal, Retail Snacks, and Frozen & Specialty Channels businesses. Retail Cereal posted internal sales growth of 6%, driven by innovation introduced in recent months and effective brand-building programs. The retail snacks segment of the business posted internal sales growth of 12% as a result of growth in cookies, crackers, wholesome snacks, and toaster pastries. In addition, all of the U.S. retail cereal and snack businesses gained category share in measured channels. In combination, the North America Frozen
 
and Specialty Channels businesses posted internal sales growth of 5%, driven by strong growth in both the Food-Away-From-Home and frozen foods businesses.
     Kellogg International reported first quarter net sales growth of 1%, or 5% excluding the unfavorable effect of currency translation; this built on strong 5% growth in the first quarter of 2005. Latin America posted internal sales growth of 11%, even after posting strong 12% growth in the first quarter of last year; both the cereal and snacks businesses contributed to these strong results. Internal net sales in the European region increased by 5%, above the Company's long-term growth target of low single-digit growth; every business in the region posted increased sales. The Asia Pacific region posted an internal net sales decline of 1 percent.
     Reported operating profit was $472.5 million in the first quarter, an increase of 1% from the first quarter of last year; this growth built on strong 11% growth last year. Internal operating profit growth, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange and stock compensation, was 6% in the first quarter and built on 10% growth last year. This growth was achieved despite significant increases in investment in brand building and innovation. The Company continues to expect that up-front costs for the full year will be approximately $90 million, or an amount similar to last year's total, even though up-front costs in the first quarter were less than in the first quarter of last year. Internal operating profit growth for the full year is expected to meet the Company's long-term target of mid-single digit growth.
     Cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $101 million in the first quarter, as was anticipated in our plan. The decline from the first quarter of last year was primarily the result of timing: the improvement made in trade payables as a percentage of sales in the first quarter of this year was less than last year's improvement. This difference was the result of an unusually low payables balance at the start of 2005. Core working capital measured as a percentage of rolling twelve-month sales was an industry-leading 7% at the end of the first quarter of 2006, which represented an improvement of 20 basis points from the first quarter of last year.
 
     Kellogg stated that it now expects full-year earnings to be in a range of $2.45-2.49 per share. This reflects the first quarter's strong results and the Company's confidence regarding the remainder of the year. The higher earnings range also includes approximately $0.15 of up-front costs and an increased estimate for stock option costs of $0.10 per share for the full year. The previous projection had been for these costs to equal $0.09 per share. Full-year cash flow is now expected to be in a range between $900 million and $975 million, an increase from previous expectations of $875 million to $975 million. In addition, the Company expects gross margin expansion. The Company also expects operating profit growth to equal or exceed sales growth for the full year.
     Mr. Jenness concluded, "We began the year with significant sales momentum. This momentum and our commitment to run the business for long-term growth, give us increased confidence that we will achieve our full-year targets. The strong performance we expect in 2006 is a testament to our continued commitment to delivering sustainable, dependable results."
     With 2005 sales in excess of $10 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, frozen waffles, and veggie foods. The Company's brands include and Kellogg products are manufactured in 17 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit Kellogg's web site at .
Kellogg's, Keebler, Pop-Tarts, Eggo, Cheez-It, Club, Nutri-Grain, Rice Krispies, All-Bran, Special K, Mini-Wheats, Chips Deluxe, Sandies, Morningstar Farms, Famous Amos,
Kashi.
http://www.kelloggcompany.com
 
     This news release contains forward-looking statements related to business performance, earnings, cash flow, and costs. Actual performance may differ materially from these statements due to factors related to competitive conditions and their impact; the effectiveness of advertising, pricing and promotional spending; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; the success of innovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the availability of and interest rates on short-term financing; commodity, packaging, and energy prices and labor costs; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses and other factors; the underlying price and volatility of the Company's common stock and the impact of variables affecting the valuation of equity-based employee awards; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; U.S. and foreign economic factors such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, and foreign currency conversions or unavailability; legal and regulatory factors; business disruption or other losses from terrorist acts or political unrest; and other factors.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
(millions, except per share data)
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA
(millions)
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(millions)
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(millions, except per share data)
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries IMPACT OF STOCK COMPENSATION RECOGNIZED IN 2006 UNDER SFAS NO. 123(R) "SHARE-BASED PAYMENT"
(millions, except per share data)
 


