FILE:K/K-8K-20060217140939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 16, 2006, Kellogg Company (the "Company") entered into a Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement (the "2006 Agreement") with the W.K. Kellogg Foundation Trust (the "Selling Stockholder"), under which the Company has agreed to repurchase 12,784,751 shares of the Company's common stock (the "Shares") from the Selling Stockholder for cash for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $550 million, or $43.02 per Share. The closing (the "Closing") of the purchase of the Shares is expected to occur on February 21, 2006.
Under an earlier Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of November 8, 2005 (the "2005 Agreement") between the Company and the Selling Stockholder, (a) the Company repurchased $400 million of Shares from the Selling Stockholder and (b) the Company granted the Selling Stockholder certain registration rights and the Selling Stockholder provided the Company with a right to repurchase additional Shares under certain circumstances. Upon Closing, the registration and repurchase rights under the 2005 Agreement will be extinguished.
The 2006 Agreement also contains other customary provisions, including representations and warranties.
The Selling Stockholder owned approximately 27% of the outstanding Shares. Following the repurchase of $550 million of the Shares expected to occur on February 21, 2006, the Selling Stockholder is expected to own approximately 25% of the outstanding Shares,
The directors of the Company (other than Directors who are affiliated with the Selling Stockholder or the W.K. Kellogg Foundation) deliberated on and unanimously approved the 2006 Agreement.
The description of the Agreement set forth above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 17, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the entry into the Agreement and the transactions contemplated by the Agreement. A copy of this press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 10.1.
Purchase and Sale Agreement made as of February 16, 2006 between the W. K. Kellogg Foundation Trust and the Kellogg Company.
Exhibit 99.01
Press Release of the Kellogg Company, dated February 17, 2006.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
  10.1  Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement made as of February 16, 2006 between the W. K. Kellogg Foundation Trust and the Kellogg            Company.
99.01  Press Release of the Kellogg Company, dated February 17, 2006.

 
Exhibit 10.1
          This STOCK PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (the "") is made and entered into as of this 16th day of February, 2006, by and between the W.K. Kellogg Foundation Trust, a charitable trust organized under the laws of the State of Michigan (the ""), and Kellogg Company, a Delaware corporation (the "").
Agreement
Selling Stockholder
Company
          WHEREAS, the Company repurchased from the Selling Stockholder 9,371,567 Shares (as defined below) owned by the Selling Stockholder, for an aggregate purchase price of $400 million in cash, pursuant to a Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of November 8, 2005 (the "2005 Agreement") under which the Selling Stockholder granted the Company certain rights with respect to the purchase of certain additional Shares of the Selling Stockholder in the event the Selling Stockholder desired to dispose of such Shares under certain circumstances and the Company granted the Selling Stockholder certain registration rights with respect to such additional Shares.
          WHEREAS, the Selling Stockholder desires to dispose of additional Shares, the Company has agreed to repurchase from the Selling Stockholder such additional Shares and the Selling Stockholder has agreed to relinquish the registration rights granted under the 2005 Agreement.
          WHEREAS, as of January 27, 2006, the Company had issued and there were outstanding 405,472,156 shares of common stock, par value $.0l per share (the "").
Shares
          WHEREAS, the Selling Stockholder currently owns 109,288,673 Shares, constituting approximately 27% of the outstanding Shares.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:
          1.1       . On the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, at the Closing, the Selling Stockholder shall sell, assign, transfer and deliver to the Company, and the Company shall acquire from the Selling Stockholder, 12,784,751 Shares owned by the Selling Stockholder (the ""), in exchange for cash in an aggregate amount equal to $550 million (the ""), representing a per Share purchase price of $43.02.
Purchase of Shares
Purchased Shares
Purchase Price
          2.1      . (a) Subject to clause (d) below, the closing shall take place on February 21, 2006 at a time mutually agreed by the parties at the offices of the Company (the "").
Closing; Closing Deliveries
Closing
 
          (b)      At the Closing, the Selling Stockholder shall cause the Purchased Shares to be transferred to the Company (and such transfer to be reflected on the share registry of the Company) free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests, pledges, charges and other encumbrances.
          (c)      At the Closing, the Company shall deliver by wire transfer to the account designated by the Selling Stockholder and set forth on Schedule 2.1 immediately available funds in U.S. dollars in an amount equal to the Purchase Price.
          (d)      The obligations of the parties hereto to consummate the transaction contemplated hereby shall be subject to the satisfaction at the Closing of the condition that there shall be no statute, regulation, injunction, restraining or other order, rule or decree of any nature of any local, state, federal or foreign court, arbitrator, arbitral tribunal, or other governmental, administrative or regulatory entity, agency, instrumentality or authority (collectively, a "") that is in effect that prohibits, restricts, alters or prevents consummation of the transaction contemplated hereby.
Governmental Authority
          In order to induce the Selling Stockholder to enter into this Agreement, the Company hereby represents and warrants to the Selling Stockholder as follows:
          3.1      . The Company is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to enter into and deliver this Agreement, to perform its obligations hereunder and to consummate the transaction contemplated by this Agreement. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Company have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Selling Stockholder) constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms subject to (a) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws and (b) general principles of equity, including equitable defenses and limits as to the availability of equitable remedies, whether such principles are considered in a proceeding at law or in equity.
Corporate Power and Authority
          3.2       . To the knowledge of the General Counsel and Chief Financial Officer of the Company as of the date hereof, the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transaction contemplated by this Agreement do not and will not (a) violate, conflict with, or result in a breach of any provision of, or constitute a default under, the Company's Amended Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, as amended; (b) violate any order, writ, injunction, decree, statute, rule or regulation applicable to the Company; or (c) require any action or consent or approval of, or review by, or registration or material filing by the Company with, any Governmental Authority, except as set forth herein and the filing of a Current Report on Form 8-K.
Conflicts; Consents and Approvals
 
          3.3       . As of the date immediately preceding the date hereof, to the knowledge of the General Counsel and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, there are no actions, suits or proceedings pending against the Company (or any of its properties, rights or franchises), at law or in equity, or before any Governmental Authority that would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on its ability to consummate the transaction contemplated hereby.
Litigation
          In order to induce the Company to enter into this Agreement, the Selling Stockholder represents and warrants to the Company as follows:
          4.1       . The Selling Stockholder owns beneficially and of record the Purchased Shares and has good title, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests, pledges, charges and other encumbrances, to the Purchased Shares.
Title to Shares
          4.2      . The Selling Stockholder is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Michigan. It has all requisite power and authority to enter into and deliver this Agreement, to perform its obligations hereunder and to consummate the transaction contemplated by this Agreement. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Selling Stockholder has been duly authorized by all necessary action on its part. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Selling Stockholder and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Company) constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Selling Stockholder, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms subject to (a) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws and (b) general principles of equity, including equitable defenses and limits as to the availability of equitable remedies, whether such principles are considered in a proceeding at law or in equity.
Power and Authority
          4.3      . To the knowledge of the Trustees of the Selling Stockholder as of the date hereof, the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transaction contemplated by this Agreement do not and will not (a) violate, conflict with, or result in a breach of any provision of, or constitute a default under, the Selling Stockholder's governing or organizational documents; (b) violate any order, writ, injunction, decree, statute, rule or regulation applicable to the Selling Stockholder; or (c) require any action or consent or approval of, or review by, or registration or material filing, other than a filing pursuant to Section 16(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, by it with, any Governmental Authority except as set forth herein.
Conflicts; Consents and Approvals
          4.4      . The Selling Stockholder is not a party to any contract, agreement, arrangement, understanding or relationship (legal or otherwise) with any other person, individual, firm, corporation, partnership, trust, joint venture, governmental authority or other entity with respect to any securities of the Company, including without limitation transfer or voting of any securities of the Company, finders fees, joint ventures, loan or option arrangements, puts or calls, guarantees of profits, division of profits or losses or the giving or withholding of proxies.
No Agreements or Understandings
 
          4.5      . As of the date immediately preceding the date hereof, to the knowledge of the Trustees of the Selling Stockholder, there are no actions, suits or proceedings pending against the Selling Stockholder (or any of its properties, rights or franchises), at law or in equity, or before any Governmental Authority that would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on its ability to consummate the transaction contemplated hereby.
Litigation
          5.1      . The initial press release by each of the Selling Stockholder and the Company announcing the transaction contemplated by this Agreement shall be in the form mutually agreed by the parties.
Press Releases
          5.2      . The Selling Stockholder shall be responsible for the payment of any stock transfer or similar taxes in connection with the transaction contemplated by this Agreement.
Transfer Taxes
          5.3       . (a) Each of the parties hereto shall use its reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all appropriate action, to do or cause to be done all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable law, and to execute and deliver such documents and other papers, as may be required to carry out the provisions of this Agreement and to consummate and make effective the transaction contemplated by this Agreement.
Further Assurances
          (b)      Each of the Company and the Selling Stockholder agrees to cooperate and use its reasonable best efforts to contest and resist any action, including, without limitation, administrative or judicial action, and to have vacated, lifted, reversed or overturned any decree, judgment, injunction or other order (whether temporary, preliminary or permanent) that is in effect that restricts, prevents or prohibits the consummation of the transaction contemplated by this Agreement, including, without limitation, by pursuing all reasonably available avenues of administrative and judicial appeal.
          6.1      . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. The parties may execute more than one copy of the Agreement, each of which shall constitute an original.
Counterparts
          6.2       . This Agreement (including Schedule 2.1) constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings, arrangements or representations by or between the parties, written and oral, with respect to the subject matter hereof. The parties hereby agree that they shall have no further rights, obligations, liabilities or claims under or relating to any such other agreement and, in particular, agree that the sale and acquisition of the Purchased Shares at the Closing shall extinguish any and all rights
Entire Agreement
 
and obligations that either party may have under Section 5.2 and Exhibit A of the 2005 Agreement.
          6.3       . Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended or shall be construed to create any third party beneficiaries.
Third Party Beneficiaries
          6.4       . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof. Each party irrevocably and unconditionally consents to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware and of the United States of America, in each case located in the State of Delaware, for any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement and the transaction contemplated by this Agreement (and agrees not to commence any action except in any such court). Each party irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any action or proceeding in the courts of the State of Delaware or of the United States of America, in each case located in the State of Delaware, and further irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Each party irrevocably and unconditionally waives any right it may have to a trial by jury in connection with any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement and the transaction contemplated by this Agreement.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
          6.5      . The transaction contemplated by this Agreement is unique. Accordingly, each of the parties acknowledges and agrees that, in addition to all other remedies to which it may be entitled, each of the parties hereto is entitled to a decree of specific performance and injunctive and other equitable relief.
Specific Performance
          6.6 . This Agreement may not be altered, amended or supplemented except by an agreement in writing signed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendment
          6.7       . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given or made (and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made upon receipt) by delivery in person, by facsimile, by courier service or by registered or certified mail to the respective parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this Section 6.7):
Notices
 
          6.8       . Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be assigned by either of the parties (whether by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other party. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
Assignment
          6.9      . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all costs and expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement and the transaction contemplated by this Agreement shall be the responsibility of and shall be paid by the party incurring such fees or expenses, whether or not the transaction contemplated by this Agreement is consummated.
Fees and Expenses
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has caused this Agreement to be executed by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of the date first written above.

 
Exhibit 99.1
      Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today announced that it has entered into an agreement to repurchase 12,784,751 of its shares from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation Trust for $550 million in a privately negotiated transaction. The price per share of $43.02 is based on recent transactions on the New York Stock Exchange. The transaction is expected to close on Tuesday, February 21, 2006.
BATTLE CREEK, Mich.
     "Kellogg Company is very committed to delivering shareholder value. Consequently, we are pleased to announce the repurchase of these shares from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation Trust," said Jim Jenness, Kellogg's chairman and chief executive officer. "Our Company's operating principles focus the entire organization on generating cash flow and creating the financial flexibility necessary for us to complete significant transactions such as this."
     Dr. William C. Richardson, a co-trustee and chair of the Trust said, "The Trust is pleased to finalize this transaction, which effectively satisfies our diversification objectives for the foreseeable future. The Trust will continue to own approximately 25% of the Company's outstanding stock, which represents approximately 65% of the Trust's assets. The Trust will continue as the Company's largest shareholder. The Trustees continue to have the utmost confidence in the Company's strategy, operating principles, and management team, which continue to provide strong growth and excellent results."
 
     With 2005 sales in excess of $10 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, frozen waffles, and meat alternatives. The Company's brands include and Kellogg products are manufactured in 17 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit Kellogg's web site at
Kellogg's, Keebler, Pop-Tarts, Eggo, Cheez-It, Club, Nutri-Grain, Rice Krispies, All-Bran, Special K, Mini-Wheats, Chips Deluxe, Sandies, Morningstar Farms, Famous Amos,
Kashi.
http://www.kelloggcompany.com.
     This news release contains forward-looking statements related to business performance and share repurchases. Actual performance may differ materially from these statements due to competitive conditions and their impact; the effectiveness of advertising, pricing and promotional spending; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; the success of innovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the availability of and interest rates on short-term financing; commodity and energy prices and labor costs; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; U.S. and foreign economic factors such as interest rates, taxes and tariffs, and foreign currency conversions or unavailability; legal and regulatory factors; business disruption or other losses from terrorist acts or political unrest; and other factors.


