FILE:K/K-8K-20061212084530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 12, 2006, Kellogg Company ("Kellogg" or the "Company") announced that, effective December 31, 2006, John A. Bryant, the Company's Executive Vice President and President, Kellogg International, would assume the additional role of Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Mr. Bryant's new title will be Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Kellogg Company and President, Kellogg International. Mr. Bryant succeeds Jeffrey M. Boromisa, who has been promoted to Senior Vice President, Kellogg Company and Executive Vice President, Kellogg International, President Asia Pacific effective as of the same date.
Mr. Bryant, 41, joined Kellogg in March 1998, working in support of the global strategic planning process. He was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kellogg USA, in August 2000, was appointed the Company's Chief Financial Officer in February 2002 and was appointed Executive Vice President later in 2002. He also assumed responsibility for the Natural and Frozen Foods Division, Kellogg USA, in September 2003. He was appointed Executive Vice President and President, Kellogg International in June 2004.
On December 12, 2006, Kellogg issued a press release announcing the foregoing. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
BATTLE CREEK, MI (NYSE: K) Kellogg Company today announced its plan to strengthen its Asia Pacific region. Experienced company veteran, Jeff Boromisa, has been promoted to senior vice president, Kellogg Company, executive vice president, Kellogg International, and president of the new organization. This structure will allow the Company to pursue accelerated growth in the region, in accordance with previously stated objectives. The Asia Pacific region includes Australia, Asia, and South Africa (previously managed as part of the European business).
Mr. Boromisa joined Kellogg in 1981 and has held several leadership roles in the company including vice president of procurement, corporate controller, chief financial officer for Kellogg International, and, most recently, chief financial officer for Kellogg Company.
David Mackay, Kellogg Company's chief executive officer-elect said, "Asia Pacific is a region where the company is under-developed and has significant growth opportunity. Jeff's institutional knowledge and financial expertise give him the unique ability to drive the expansion of our Asia Pacific business and create significant shareholder value."
Mr. Boromisa said, "I look forward to this new challenge and further shaping our growth strategy in this region."
As the result of these changes, the Company also announced that John Bryant, executive vice president, Kellogg Company and president, Kellogg International, will assume the additional responsibilities of chief financial officer, Kellogg Company. Mr. Bryant held this role between 2002 and 2004. He will continue to lead the Company's international operations.
"Kellogg Company has significant depth of management. We are glad to have John again serve as our chief financial officer," said Mr. Mackay.
These management changes will be effective December 31, 2006.
Separately, the Company stated that its strong financial performance has continued and reaffirmed its guidance for full-year 2006 earnings of $2.48 to $2.50 per share.
 
     With 2005 sales in excess of $10 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, frozen waffles and meat alternatives. The Company's brands include and Kellogg products are manufactured in 17 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit Kellogg Company's web site at .
Kellogg's, Keebler, Pop-Tarts, Eggo, Cheez-It, Club, Nutri-Grain, Rice Krispies, All-Bran, Special K, Mini-Wheats, Chips Deluxe, Sandies, Morningstar Farms, Famous Amos
Kashi.
www.kelloggcompany.com


