FILE:K/K-8K-20061229113923.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
As previously announced on December 12, 2006, Jeffrey M. Boromisa, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, has been promoted to Senior Vice President, Kellogg Company and Executive Vice President, Kellogg International, President Asia Pacific, effective as of December 31, 2006.
In connection with this change, on December 29, 2006, the Company entered into a retention agreement with Mr. Boromisa pursuant to which (a) his compensation will continue to be based on the benchmarks for his previous position; (b) he was awarded 13,000 restricted shares which cliff vest after three years; (c) if he is terminated by the Company without cause prior to May, 2011 (his retirement date), he would receive his retirement benefits under the Kellogg Company Pension Plan; and (d) he will be subject to non-compete and non-solicit obligations.
     The above description of the agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the agreement filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1, and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
      December 29, 2006
Date:
Table of Contents

 
Jeff Boromisa Kellogg Company One Kellogg Square Battle Creek, MI 49016
Dear Jeff:
          We are excited about your decision to lead the Company's efforts in Asia/Pacific as the Company's Senior Vice President, President Asia/Pacific. The purpose of this letter is to set forth terms of a restricted stock grant and other benefits that reflect our appreciation for your contributions to the business and our desire that you remain with Kellogg Company ("Kellogg," and together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, the "Company"). The letter also includes certain commitments the Company requires from someone in your position.
 
 
 
          Jeff, enclosed are two copies of this letter. If the letter is acceptable to you please sign both copies and return one to me for our files.
Sincerely,
/s/ James M. Jenness James M. Jenness Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
I accept the terms of the agreement as presented in this letter this 29 day of December, 2006.
th


