FILE:K/K-8K-20070723083557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On July 23, 2007, Kellogg Company ("Kellogg" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing management changes intended to further broaden the experience of several of the Company's senior executive leaders, including Jeffrey W. Montie and John A. Bryant. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Montie was appointed executive vice president, Kellogg Company, president, Kellogg International and will assume the additional responsibilities for leading Kellogg's global innovation, marketing, consumer promotions, and sales teams. Previously, Mr. Montie was executive vice president, Kellogg Company, president, Kellogg North America.
Mr. Bryant was appointed executive vice president, Kellogg Company, president, Kellogg North America. Mr. Bryant will retain the role of chief financial officer. Previously, Mr. Bryant was executive vice president and chief financial officer, Kellogg Company, president, Kellogg International.
In connection with these changes, the Company entered into retention agreements with Mr. Montie and Mr. Bryant pursuant to which (a) if the executive is terminated by the Company without cause or leaves the Company for good reason prior to his retirement date under the Company's pension plans (June 2016 for Mr. Montie and November 2020 for Mr. Bryant), he would receive certain pension benefits under these plans; (b) Mr. Bryant's pension benefits would be calculated based on the same formula applicable to most other senior executives; and (c) each executive will be subject to non-compete and non-solicit obligations.
The above description of the retention agreements with Mr. Montie and Mr. Bryant is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copies of the agreements filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2, which agreements are incorporated herein by reference.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
Jeffrey W. Montie Kellogg Company One Kellogg Square Battle Creek, MI 49016
Dear Jeff:
     We are excited about you assuming the role of President, Kellogg International, and leading the Company's global efforts relating to marketing, innovation, sales and promotions. The purpose of this letter is to set forth terms of retention benefits that reflect your valuable contributions to the business and our desire that you remain with Kellogg Company ("Kellogg," and together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, the "Company") for the long term. The letter also includes non-compete and other commitments from you to the Company.
 
 
 
 
     Jeff, enclosed are two copies of this letter. If the letter is acceptable to you please sign both copies and return one to me for our files.
Sincerely,
/s/ David Mackay
David Mackay President Chief Executive Officer
I accept the terms of the agreement as presented in this letter this 23 day of July, 2007.
rd
Jeffrey W. Montie
     /s/ Jeffrey W. Montie     

 
Exhibit 10.2
John A. Bryant Kellogg Company One Kellogg Square Battle Creek, MI 49016
Dear John:
     We are excited about you assuming the role of President, Kellogg North America and Chief Financial Officer for the Company. The purpose of this letter is to set forth terms of retention benefits that reflect your valuable contributions to the business and our desire that you remain with Kellogg Company ("Kellogg," and together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, the "Company") for the long term. The letter also includes non-compete and other commitments from you to the Company.
 
 
 
 
     John, enclosed are two copies of this letter. If the letter is acceptable to you please sign both copies and return one to me for our files.
Sincerely,
/s/ David Mackay
David Mackay President Chief Executive Officer
I accept the terms of the agreement as presented in this letter this 23 day of July, 2007.
rd
John A. Bryant
     /s/ John A. Bryant     

 
Exhibit 99.1
Media Contact: Kris Charles 269-961-3799
Analysts Contact: Simon Burton, CFA 269-961-6636
     BATTLE CREEK, Mich., July 23, 2007  Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today announced management changes intended to further broaden the experience of several of its senior executive leaders. John A. Bryant is appointed executive vice president, Kellogg Company, president, Kellogg North America. He will retain the role of chief financial officer. Previously he was executive vice president and chief financial officer, Kellogg Company, president, Kellogg International. Jeffrey W. Montie is appointed executive vice president, Kellogg Company, president, Kellogg International and will assume the additional responsibilities for leading the global innovation, marketing, consumer promotion, and sales teams. Previously he was executive vice president, Kellogg Company, president, Kellogg North America.
     Both appointments are effective immediately. Bryant and Montie will continue to serve on the Global Leadership Team and report to David Mackay, president and chief executive officer, Kellogg Company. Supporting Bryant and Montie are senior and experienced leadership teams in both the international regions and U.S. business units.
     "These organizational moves will further broaden John and Jeff's considerable experience and reflect our Company's continued commitment to deliver sustainable rates of growth," said Mackay. "This shift in responsibilities leverages their capabilities, and offers new opportunities to enhance our bench strength."
     A 20-year veteran of Kellogg, Montie has been executive vice president of Kellogg Company since September 2003 and president, Kellogg North America since June 2004. He joined Kellogg Company in 1987 in the U.S. ready-to-eat cereal business. He has held general management positions in both the Kellogg North American and international businesses, including vice president, global innovation for Kellogg Europe.
     Bryant was chief financial officer from February 2002 to June 2004 and president of Kellogg International since June 2004. In December 2006, he was renamed chief financial officer. He joined
 
Kellogg Company in 1998 and has served in a number of leadership positions in both the Kellogg North American and international businesses.
     Additionally, the company announced the following organizational changes for its North American business: Paul Norman, senior vice president, Kellogg Company, president, U.S. Morning Foods will continue to manage the Morning Foods and Kashi business and additionally will have responsibility for our Frozen Foods business unit; Brad Davidson, senior vice president, Kellogg Company, president, U.S. Snacks will take on the added responsibility of overseeing the Canadian business unit. These changes are effective immediately.
     "Our North American and International businesses have posted strong growth and returns in recent years; performance that has continued in the first half of 2007," said Mackay. "I have every confidence that both businesses will continue to generate excellent results in the years to come under Jeff and John's leadership."
     With 2006 sales of almost $11 billion, Kellogg Company (NYSE:K) is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, fruit snacks, frozen waffles, and veggie foods. The company's brands include and . Kellogg products are manufactured in 17 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit the company's Web site at .
Kellogg's, Keebler, Pop-Tarts, Eggo, Cheez-It, Nutri-Grain, Special K, Rice Krispies, Murray, Austin, Morningstar Farms, Famous Amos, Carr's, Plantation, Ready Crust
Kashi
www.kelloggcompany.com


