FILE:K/K-8K-20070220092048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) Effective February 16, 2007, William C. Richardson retired from the Board of Directors of Kellogg Company (the "Company"). He recently retired from his role as trustee of the W.K. Kellogg Foundation Trust.
(d) On February 16, 2007, the Board elected Sterling K. Speirn as a director effective March 1, 2007 to fill Dr. Richardson's position. Mr. Speirn's term expires at the 2008 annual meeting of shareowners. The Board also appointed Mr. Speirn to the consumer marketing and social responsibility committees. Mr. Speirn is the President and CEO of the W.K. Kellogg Foundation and is a trustee of the W.K. Kellogg Foundation Trust.
Mr. Speirn's compensation will be similar to other non-employee directors of the Company, which is described in the Company's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 3, 2006 (the "2006 Proxy").
Information about transactions between the Company and the W.K. Kellogg Foundation Trust is set forth in the 2006 Proxy, and such information is incorporated by reference herein.
(e) The Board made compensation determinations with respect to the Company's named executive officers and the Compensation Committee adopted the 2007-2009 Executive Performance Plan, each as set forth below.
. Effective April 1, 2007, the Board approved the following base salaries for the named executive officers of the Company: John A. Bryant, $635,000; and Jeffrey W. Montie, $640,000. In addition, the Board approved new 2007 target annual incentive plan ("AIP") payment percentages of 90% for Mr. Bryant (from 75%); and 90% for Mr. Montie (from 85%). These AIP opportunities are established as a percentage of an executive's base salary with actual AIP payments each year ranging from 0% to 200% of the target opportunity. The financial metrics for the 2007 AIP are based on corporate, business unit and individual performance factors given the functions of the particular executive. All AIP payments are made in cash.
Base Salaries; Target AIP Payments
. The Compensation Committee of the Board approved the 2007-2009 Executive Performance Plan ("2007-2009 EPP") under which certain senior executives and other employees would be eligible to receive a portion of their long-term incentives in the form of performance shares based on the achievement of multi-year internal cash flow targets. Awards are paid in shares, except for amounts withheld by the Company for minimum statutory withholding requirements. In addition, the Board (and the independent members of the Board with respect to Mr. Mackay) approved 2007-2009 EPP target awards of 40,600 shares for A.D. David Mackay; 9,800 shares for Mr. Bryant; and 9,800 shares for Mr. Montie. Participants in the 2007-2009 EPP have the opportunity to earn between 0% and 200% of their EPP target. Dividends are not paid on unvested EPP awards. A copy of the 2007-2009 EPP is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated in its entirety into this Item.
2007-2009 Executive Performance Plan
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 10.1. 2007-2009 Executive Performance Plan.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
The Performance Shares will be earned on the Vesting Date (as defined below) only to the extent that the performance goal thresholds for the Performance Period are exceeded, with any unearned Performance Shares being forfeited without notice on the Vesting Date. The performance measure is cumulative cash flow ("Cumulative Cash Flow") as described in the 2007-2009 Executive Performance Plan Overview (the "Overview").
Awards:
The Company's 2007-2009 fiscal years.
Performance Period:
Performance Shares are earned and vest on the third anniversary of the grant date (the "Vesting Date"). Upon the death, Disability or Retirement of a Participant (each, as defined in the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan")) prior to the Vesting Date, Performance Shares will continue to vest and such Participant will be eligible for a full un-prorated award upon vesting. Recipients will forfeit, without further notice and effective as of their date of termination any unvested Performance Shares if their employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement.
Vesting:
Notwithstanding the above, in the event of a Change of Control (as defined in the Plan), all Performance Shares will be considered fully earned and will be payable at target promptly as practicable following the Change of Control. The Compensation Committee may adjust the Performance Shares earned to the extent the actual Cumulative Cash Flow to that date exceeds the target specified in the Overview, but in no case will the Performance Shares earned be less than the target.
Change of Control:
Dividends are not paid on Performance Shares. After the Performance Shares are vested and shares of the Company's Common Stock are deposited in a Wells Fargo account for the Participant (net of taxes) soon after the Vesting Date, dividends will be paid on all shares of the Company's common stock if and when declared by the Board of Directors.
Dividends:
prospectively
Performance Shares are not entitled to any voting rights. After the Performance Shares are vested and shares of the Company's common stock are deposited in a Wells Fargo account for the Participant (net of taxes) soon after the Vesting Date, the Participant will be entitled to voting rights on the shares of the Company's common stock.
Voting:
Taxes will be due when the Performance Shares vest based on the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of the shares on the Vesting Date. In the year of vesting, taxes will be reported on the appropriate tax reporting forms (W2 in the U.S., T4 in Canada). Participants will be deemed to have elected to pay the withholding taxes owed by allowing the Company to withhold shares on the Vesting Date (and delivering to the Participant the net shares of the Company's common stock) at the statutory minimum. To the extent a Participant's taxes on the vesting of Performance Shares exceeds the amount so withheld (, because the Participant's tax rate exceeds the withholding rate), the Participant is responsible for paying the difference. Taxes include Federal taxes, social insurance or FICA taxes, and state and local taxes, if applicable.
Taxes:
i.e.
Soon after the Vesting Date, the number of net shares of the Company's common stock earned will be deposited into a Wells Fargo account. After the shares of common stock are deposited following the Vesting Date, Participants can contact Wells Fargo at 1-877-910-5385 for customer service.
Administration:
1
 
Target awards will be communicated to Participants during the salary planning communication in late February and early March, when other pay decisions such as merit increase, bonus and stock option award are communicated. Participants will receive confirmation of the actual number of Performance Shares earned during the first quarter of the 2010 calendar year.
Communication:
Upon the depositing of the shares in the Wells Fargo account, shares of the Company's common stock will be registered in the Participant's name. Participants can change the registration of the shares by calling Wells Fargo.
Registration:
After the shares of the Company's common stock are deposited, Participants can leave the shares with Wells Fargo, ask Wells Fargo to sell the shares, have a certificate issued to the Participant or have the shares electronically transferred to another broker.
Disposition at Vesting:
Income from the 2007-2009 Executive Performance Plan will not be included in earnings for the purposes of determining benefits, including pension, S&I, disability, life insurance and other survivor benefits.
Benefits:
After the Performance Shares vest and the net shares of common stock are deposited, insiders cannot dispose of the shares of common stock without prior approval of the Legal Department.
Insiders:
The 2007-2009 Executive Performance Plan was adopted under the Plan and is subject to all the provisions of the Plan, including those related to the ability of the Board of Directors to amend the Plan, the Executive Performance Plan or any awards thereunder. Nothing in this summary or the 2007-2009 Executive Performance Plan or the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right of continued employment.
Other Plan Provisions:
This plan summary is subject to the actual plan document and any additional terms and conditions as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
2


