FILE:K/K-8K-20080731080511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On July 31, 2008, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended June 28, 2008, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.01.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.01
     BATTLE CREEK, Mich.  Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today reported second quarter 2008 earnings per share growth of 9% with an 11% increase in sales. Results were driven by strong execution, innovation and price realization, and were achieved after absorbing significant cost inflation. In addition, Kellogg has raised its 2008 full-year earnings guidance to a range of $2.95 to $3.00 per diluted share, as a result of the Company's first half performance and its confidence regarding performance for the remainder of the year.
     The Company today also announced that its board of directors has authorized an additional $500 million share repurchase program, to be executed within the next twelve months. The Company's initial 2008 authorization of $650 million has already been completed. The additional repurchases are expected to commence late this year from Company cash balances. Consequently, the Company does not anticipate the purchases will have a meaningful impact on 2008 earnings per share.
     Reported net earnings for the quarter were $312 million, a 4% increase over last year's $301 million. Earnings were $0.82 per diluted share versus last year's $0.75, an increase of 9%. The second quarter performance included the impact of significantly higher commodity inflation and a double-digit increase in advertising spending offset by lower upfront costs and a lower tax rate.
     "Our first half performance provides further evidence of the strength of our business model and strategy," said David Mackay, Kellogg's chief executive officer. "Despite significant inflation headwinds, we capitalized on our momentum to further increase our investment in future growth. We increased our earnings guidance and acquired two businesses in emerging markets within the first half of the year, and we continue to utilize our strong cash flow to return profits to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases."
     Reported net sales in the second quarter increased 11% to $3.3 billion. Internal net sales growth, which excludes the effect of foreign-currency translation and acquisitions, was 6%.
 
     Kellogg North America posted reported net sales growth of 7%; internal net sales growth was 6%, driven by broad-based growth across the region. Retail Cereal posted internal net sales growth of 5%, the Retail Snacks business posted internal net sales growth of 6% and the North America Frozen and Specialty Channels businesses reported internal net sales growth of 10%.
     Kellogg International reported second quarter net sales growth of 17%, or 6% excluding the favorable effect of currency translation and acquisitions. Internal net sales in Latin America increased by 7% and European internal net sales grew by 5%. The Asia Pacific region posted internal net sales growth of 9%.
     Reported operating profit was $530 million in the second quarter of 2008, an increase of 2% from the second quarter of last year. Internal operating profit growth was also 2% in the second quarter. Total up-front costs incurred for cost-reduction initiatives were approximately 4 cents per share. Kellogg still expects that up-front costs related to cost-reduction initiatives for the full year will be approximately $0.14 of earnings per share.
     Cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $510 million in the first half versus last year's $569 million. For the full year, Kellogg still anticipates cash flow of between $1,000 million and $1,075 million.
     Kellogg now expects full-year earnings to be in the range of $2.95 to $3.00 per share. The Company still expects that internal sales and operating profit will increase at a mid single-digit rate for the full year. Expectations for 2008 now include incremental commodity, energy, fuel and benefits expense of approximately 90 cents per share versus the previous expectation of 80 cents per share.
     CEO Mackay concluded, "While commodities and the economic outlook remain volatile, our business model and strategy give us continued confidence that we will achieve our long-term goals."
With 2007 sales of nearly $12 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal
 
bars, fruit-flavored snacks, frozen waffles, and veggie foods. The Company's brands include , , , , , , , , , , , , , and . Kellogg products are manufactured in 19 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit Kellogg's web site at .
Kellogg's
Keebler
Pop-Tarts
Eggo
Cheez-It
Nutri-Grain
Rice Krispies
Morningstar Farms
Famous Amos
Special K
Stretch Island
All-Bran
Frosted Mini-Wheats
Club
Kashi
http://www.kelloggcompany.com
     This news release contains forward-looking statements related to business performance, earnings, costs, cash flow, brand building, and cost-reduction initiatives. Actual performance may differ materially from these statements due to factors related to competitive conditions and their impact; the effectiveness of advertising, pricing and promotional spending; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; the success of innovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the availability of and interest rates on short-term financing; commodity and energy prices and labor costs; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; U.S. and foreign economic factors such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, and foreign currency conversions or unavailability; legal and regulatory factors; business disruption or other losses from terrorist acts or political unrest; and other factors. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update them.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
(millions, except per share data)
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA
(millions)
 
(millions)
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(millions, except per share data)


