FILE:K/K-8K-20081029080603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On October 29, 2008, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended September 27, 2008, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.01.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
99.01     Financial results for the period ended September 27, 2008

EXHIBIT 99.01
 
     BATTLE CREEK, Mich.  Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today reported third-quarter 2008 sales growth of 9% and earnings per share growth of 17% driven by strong underlying business momentum.
     Reported net earnings for the quarter were $342 million, a 12% increase over last year's $305 million. The third-quarter performance included the impact of significantly higher commodity inflation and a higher tax rate, offset by lower upfront costs. Earnings were $0.89 per diluted share versus last year's $0.76, an increase of 17%.
     "The Kellogg business model and strategy continue to give us the ability to offset inflationary headwinds while hitting our targets and delivering sustainable, dependable performance in these very volatile times," said David Mackay, Kellogg's chief executive officer.
     Reported net sales in the third quarter increased 9% to $3.3 billion. Internal net sales growth, which excludes the effects of foreign currency translation, acquisitions and differences in the number of shipping days, was 7%.
     Kellogg North America posted broad-based reported net sales growth of 10%; internal net sales growth was 9%. Retail Cereal posted internal net sales growth of 7%, the Retail Snacks business posted internal net sales growth of 10% and the North America Frozen and Specialty Channels businesses delivered internal net sales growth of 11%.
     Kellogg International reported third-quarter net sales growth of 9%, or 3% on an internal basis, which excludes the favorable effects of currency translation, acquisitions and differences in the number of shipping days. Internal net sales in Europe increased 3%, while Latin America internal sales decreased 1% versus last year's strong 12% growth. Economic weakness and a competitive environment impacted Mexico's performance. The Asia Pacific region posted strong internal net sales growth of 10%.
     Operating profit was $533 million in the third quarter of 2008, an increase of 9% on a reported and internal basis. Total upfront costs incurred for cost-reduction initiatives were
 
approximately $0.01 per share. Kellogg still expects that upfront costs related to cost-reduction initiatives for the full year will be approximately $0.14 of earnings per share.
     Cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $893 million in the first three quarters of the year versus $961 million during the same period of 2007. For the full year, Kellogg still anticipates cash flow of between $1 billion and $1.075 billion.
     Kellogg now anticipates that 2008 earnings per share will be closer to the high end of the previous guidance of $2.95 to $3.00 per share. The Company also expects mid single-digit internal sales and internal operating profit growth for the full year. Total cost pressure expectations remain at approximately 9% of cost of goods.
     For 2009, Kellogg anticipates another year of sustainable and dependable performance. Given the current business momentum, the company provided guidance of mid single-digit internal sales growth  above its long-term guidance of low single-digit growth. In addition, internal operating profit is projected to also grow at a mid single-digit rate. The Company remains confident that it can achieve high single-digit EPS growth on a currency neutral basis, which excludes the effects of foreign currency translation but includes the impact of acquisitions, dispositions and differences in the number of shipping days. However, the recent volatility in foreign exchange markets makes forecasting reported EPS growth very difficult at this time.
     CEO Mackay concluded, "We remain confident in our ability to deliver another year of sustainable and dependable performance despite the uncertain economic environment and unpredictable foreign exchange markets."
With 2007 sales of nearly $12 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, fruit-flavored snacks, frozen waffles, and veggie foods. The Company's brands include , , , , , , , , , , , , , and
Kellogg's
Keebler
Pop-Tarts
Eggo
Cheez-It
Nutri-Grain
Rice Krispies
Morningstar Farms
Famous Amos
Special K
Stretch Island
All-Bran
Frosted Mini-Wheats
Club
 
. Kellogg products are manufactured in 19 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit Kellogg's web site at .
Kashi
http://www.kelloggcompany.com
     This news release contains forward-looking statements related to business performance, earnings, costs, cash flow, brand building, and cost-reduction initiatives. Actual performance may differ materially from these statements due to factors related to competitive conditions and their impact; the effectiveness of advertising, pricing and promotional spending; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; the success of innovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the availability of and interest rates on short-term financing; commodity and energy prices and labor costs; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; U.S. and foreign economic factors such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, and foreign currency conversions or unavailability; legal and regulatory factors; business disruption or other losses from terrorist acts or political unrest; and other factors. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update them.
 
(millions, except per share data)
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA
 
(millions)
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
(millions, except per share data)
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET


