FILE:K/K-8K-20080228170536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) The Board of Directors of Kellogg Company (the "Company") made compensation determinations with respect to the Company's named executive officers and the Compensation Committee adopted the 2008-2010 Executive Performance Plan, each as set forth below.
. Effective March 30, 2008, the Board approved a new base salary of $1,150,000 for David Mackay (from $1,100,000). In addition, the Board approved a new 2008 target annual incentive plan ("AIP") payment percentage of 145% for Mr. Mackay (from 125%). AIP opportunities are established as a percentage of an executive's base salary with actual AIP payment each year ranging from 0% to 200% of the target opportunity. The financial metrics for his 2008 AIP are based on corporate performance (internal operating profit, internal net sales and cash flow) and individual performance. All AIP payments are made in cash.
Base Salary; Target AIP Payment for David Mackay
. Given the ongoing time commitment of serving as executive Chairman, on February 22, 2008 the Board determined it was appropriate to provide compensation to Jim Jenness. The Board determined that the total amount of his annual compensation in 2008 would be $630,000, which is comprised of the same long-term incentives granted to non-management Directors (2,100 shares of restricted stock and 5,000 stock options), with the remaining compensation paid in cash. Mr. Jenness received these equity grants on February 22, 2008, the same date that long-term incentives were awarded to the Company's employees. The stock options vest 50% on February 22, 2009, and 50% on February 22, 2010. The shares of restricted stock vest immediately, but Mr. Jenness must hold the shares as long as he is a Kellogg employee or Director. The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the letter agreement filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1, and incorporated herein by reference.
Jim Jenness
. The Compensation Committee of the Board approved the 2008-2010 Executive Performance Plan ("2008-2010 EPP") under which certain senior executives and other employees would be eligible to receive a portion of their long-term incentives in the form of performance shares based on the achievement of multi-year internal operating profit targets. Awards are paid in shares, except for amounts withheld by the Company for minimum statutory withholding requirements. In addition, the Board (and the independent members of the Board with respect to Mr. Mackay) approved 2008-2010 EPP target awards of 38,300 shares for Mr. Mackay; 9,900 shares for Mr. Bryant; 9,200 shares for Mr. Montie; and 6,500 shares for Mr. Boromisa. Participants in the 2008-2010 EPP have the opportunity to earn between 0% and 200% of their EPP target. Dividends are not paid on unvested EPP awards. A copy of the 2008-2010 EPP is attached as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated in its entirety into this Item.
2008-2010 Executive Performance Plan
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
Mr. James M. Jenness Kellogg Company One Kellogg Square Battle Creek, Michigan 49017
Dear Jim:
     We are very excited that you will remain Chairman of Kellogg Company (the "Company"). Given your ongoing time commitment in this key role, the valuable services you provide, and your affection for the Company and our shareholders, the independent members of the Board have determined to provide you with the following compensation in 2008.
     1.  Your total annual compensation will be $630,000, which is comprised of the same long-term incentives granted to non-management directors (2,100 shares of restricted stock and 5000 stock options), with the remaining compensation paid in cash. You will receive the restricted shares and stock options on the same day the annual long-term incentives are granted to other employees of the Company. The options will vest in the same manner as those received by other employees (50% on the first anniversary of the grant, and the remaining 50% on the second anniversary. The stock grant will immediately vest (again, the same manner in which restricted stock vests for non-management directors), and you agree to hold those shares as long as you are an employee or director of the Company.
Compensation.
     Of course, you will retain your eligibility for retiree medical benefits and vested stock option awards according to the terms of the relevant plans. In addition, as long as you remain an employee of the Company, you will be eligible to participate in the Company's employee and senior executive benefits and welfare plans in effect from time to time, such as life, medical and dental insurance, and our savings and investment plan. However, you will not be entitled to additional compensation or benefits from the Company other than those that are currently vested or which are set forth in this letter and the Agreement dated October 20, 2006 (the 2006 Agreement"). To be clear, you will not (a) participate in the Annual Incentive Plan (bonus plan) or any other long term incentive or performance plan (e.g., Executive Performance Plans); (b) be entitled to receive severance benefits from the Company or otherwise participate in the Company's severance plan; (c) be entitled to receive change of control benefits from the Company or otherwise participate in the Company's Change of Control Plan; or (d)
 
Mr. James M. Jenness Page 2 February 22, 2008
accrue any additional pension benefits by virtue of your continued employment with the Company.
     With respect to your pension, the 2006 Agreement provides for a lump sum pension benefit as of January 1, 2008. As previously agreed, this benefit is payable six months after your employment with the Company ends in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). In accordance with our pension plans, the pension benefit will be converted to a lump sum amount using the PBGC interest rate in effect in October 2007. The lump sum will accrue interest at the 30-year treasury rate from January 1, 2008.
     2. . This letter and the agreements herein will be interpreted to avoid any penalty sanctions under Section 409A of the Code. Upon your request, the Company agrees to make any changes to this letter and the agreements herein that will assure that no sanctions will be imposed under Section 409A of the Code.
Section 409A
     3. . You represent and warrant that no promise or inducement has been offered or made except as herein set forth and that you are entering into and executing this Agreement without reliance on any statement or representation not set forth within this Agreement by the Company, or any person(s) acting on its behalf.
No Other Representations
     4. . You represent and warrant that you have not sold, assigned, transferred, conveyed or otherwise disposed of to any third party, by operation of law or otherwise, any action, cause of action, debt, obligation, contract, agreement, covenant, guarantee, judgment, damage, claim, counterclaim, liability or demand of any nature whatsoever relating to any matter covered in this Agreement.
Non-Assignment of Rights
     5. . You agree that the construction, interpretation, and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of Michigan, including conflict of laws. It is agreed that any controversy, claim or dispute between the parties, directly or indirectly, shall only be resolved in the Circuit Court of Calhoun County, or the United States District Court for the Western District of Michigan, whichever court has jurisdiction over the subject matter thereof, and the parties hereby submit to the jurisdiction of said courts.
Controlling Law and Venue
     6. . You agree that this Agreement, the 2006 Agreement and the 2004 Agreement (together with this Agreement, the "Letter Agreements") constitute the entire agreement between you and the Company, and that the Letter Agreements supersede any and all prior and/or contemporaneous written and/or oral agreements relating to such matters. If there is any conflict between this Agreement and either the 2006 Agreement or the 2004 Agreement, this Agreement shall control. You acknowledge that this Agreement may not be modified except by written document, signed by you and the Chief Executive Officer of Kellogg.
Entire Agreement; Amendment
 
Mr. James M. Jenness Page 3 February 22, 2008
     7. . You acknowledge and agree that your employment with the Company described in this Agreement is an at-will employment relationship, and that only the General Counsel of Kellogg may modify this provision, and any modification must be in writing signed by both parties.
Employment Relationship
     8. . This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in one or more counterparts, any one of which need not contain the signatures of more than one party, but all such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
     If the terms of this letter are acceptable to you, please sign in the space provided below.
Acknowledged and agreed this 22nd day of February, 2008

 
Exhibit 10.2
The Performance Shares will be earned on the Vesting Date (as defined below) only to the extent that the performance goal thresholds for the Performance Period are exceeded, with any unearned Performance Shares being forfeited without notice on the Vesting Date. The performance measure is three year growth for Internal Operating Profit (OP) as described in the 2008-2010 Executive Performance Plan Overview (the "Overview").
Awards:
The Company's 2008-2010 fiscal years.
Performance Period:
Performance Shares are earned and vest on the third anniversary of the grant date (the "Vesting Date"). Upon the death, Disability or Retirement of a Participant (each, as defined in the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan")) prior to the Vesting Date, Performance Shares will continue to vest and such Participant will be eligible for a full un-prorated award upon vesting. Recipients will forfeit, without further notice and effective as of their date of termination any unvested Performance Shares if their employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement.
Vesting:
Notwithstanding the above, in the event of a Change of Control (as defined in the Plan), all Performance Shares will be considered fully earned and will be payable at target promptly as practicable following the Change of Control. The Compensation Committee may adjust the Performance Shares earned to the extent the growth in Internal Operating Profit at that date exceeds the target specified in the Overview, but in no case will the Performance Shares earned be less than the target.
Change of Control:
Dividends are not paid on Performance Shares. After the Performance Shares are vested and shares of the Company's Common Stock are deposited in a Wells Fargo account for the Participant (net of taxes) soon after the Vesting Date, dividends will be paid on all shares of the Company's common stock if and when declared by the Board of Directors.
Dividends:
prospectively
Performance Shares are not entitled to any voting rights. After the Performance Shares are vested and shares of the Company's common stock are deposited in a Wells Fargo account for the Participant (net of taxes) soon after the Vesting Date, the Participant will be entitled to voting rights on the shares of the Company's common stock.
Voting:
Taxes will be due when the Performance Shares vest based on the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of the shares on the Vesting Date. In the year of vesting, taxes will be reported on the appropriate tax reporting forms (W2 in the U.S., T4 in Canada). Participants will be deemed to have elected to pay the withholding taxes owed by allowing the Company to withhold shares on the Vesting Date (and delivering to the Participant the net shares of the Company's common stock) at the statutory minimum. To the extent a Participant's taxes on the vesting of Performance Shares exceeds the amount so withheld (, because the Participant's tax rate exceeds the withholding rate), the Participant is responsible for paying the difference. Taxes include Federal taxes, social insurance or FICA taxes, and state and local taxes, if applicable.
Taxes:
i.e.
Soon after the Vesting Date, the number of net shares of the Company's common stock earned will be deposited into a Wells Fargo account. After the shares of common stock are deposited following the Vesting Date, Participants can contact Wells Fargo at 1-877-910-5385 for customer service.
Administration:
1
 
Target awards will be communicated to Participants during the salary planning communication in late February and early March, when other pay decisions such as market and performance adjustment, bonus and stock option award are communicated. Participants will receive confirmation of the actual number of Performance Shares earned during the first quarter of the 2011 calendar year.
Communication:
Upon the depositing of the shares in the Wells Fargo account, shares of the Company's common stock will be registered in the Participant's name. Participants can change the registration of the shares by calling Wells Fargo.
Registration:
After the shares of the Company's common stock are deposited, Participants can leave the shares with Wells Fargo, ask Wells Fargo to sell the shares, have a certificate issued to the Participant or have the shares electronically transferred to another broker.
Disposition at Vesting:
Income from the 2008-2010 Executive Performance Plan will not be included in earnings for the purposes of determining benefits, including pension, S&I, disability, life insurance and other survivor benefits.
Benefits:
After the Performance Shares vest and the net shares of common stock are deposited, insiders cannot dispose of the shares of common stock without prior approval of the Legal Department.
Insiders:
The 2008-2010 Executive Performance Plan was adopted under the Plan and is subject to all the provisions of the Plan, including those related to the ability of the Board of Directors to amend the Plan, the Executive Performance Plan or any awards thereunder. Nothing in this summary, the Overview, or the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right of continued employment.
Other Plan Provisions:
This plan summary is subject to the actual plan document and any additional terms and conditions as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Issued February 2008
2


