FILE:K/K-8K-20091029080537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On October 29, 2009, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended October 3, 2009, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
BATTLE CREEK, Mich.  Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today reported third quarter 2009 financial results that included strong internal net sales and internal operating profit growth. Third quarter net earnings were $361 million, a 6% increase from last year's third quarter net earnings of $342 million. Earnings per diluted share were $0.94 for the quarter, a year-over-year increase of 6% on a reported basis and 12% higher on a currency-neutral basis despite higher up-front costs.
"The current economic environment has placed significant pressure on our consumers," said David Mackay, Kellogg Company chief executive officer. "However, the environment also provided us with both the incentive and the opportunity to build an even stronger company for the future. We are aggressively pursuing productivity initiatives, as well as taking advantage of media deflation and efficiency programs to invest even more back into advertising to further drive the long-term health of our brands."
Third quarter reported net sales were $3.3 billion, representing a 0.3% decrease versus the third quarter of 2008. However, internal net sales growth, which excludes the effects of foreign currency translation and acquisitions, rose 3%, in line with the Company's long-term annual growth targets. Kellogg North America posted net sales growth of 1% on a reported basis, and 2% on an internal basis, building on strong year-ago internal net sales growth of 9%. Internal net sales growth for Kellogg North America consisted of 2% internal net sales growth delivery from North America Retail Cereal, 3% growth from North America Snacks, and a decline of 3% from North America Frozen and Specialty Channels.
Kellogg International posted a third quarter net sales decline of 4% on a reported basis, however net sales grew 6% on an internal basis, which excludes the effects of currency translation and acquisitions. Internal net sales for Kellogg International consisted of Latin America's internal net sales growth of 9%, Asia Pacific's growth of 4%, and Europe's growth of 5% versus the third quarter of last year. Of particular note is Europe's strong return to internal net sales growth in the back half of the year, in line with guidance from the Company's second quarter conference call.
 
 
Operating profit for the third quarter of $567 million was a solid 6% increase on a reported basis, and a strong 11% increase on an internal basis. Total up-front costs for cost-reduction initiatives totaled approximately $0.06 per share, out-pacing 2008's third quarter up-front costs of $0.01 per share. Gross margin for third quarter 2009 of 43.9% represents a 120 basis point increase over last year's third quarter on a reported basis.
The benefit to third quarter earnings per share from favorability below the operating profit line in items such as interest expense and a lower effective tax rate was more than offset by unfavorability in other income and expense.
Kellogg Company continued to deliver strong cash flow, generating $978 million year-to-date, including an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. The Company's year-to-date cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, surpassed the $893 million of cash flow generated during the comparable period in 2008. For the full-year 2009, Kellogg raised guidance for cash flow, as defined, to approximately $1.2 billion. "Manage for Cash continues to be a key operating principle for Kellogg. Having re-doubled our efforts in this difficult environment, we will deliver a record cash flow performance in 2009 despite the adverse impact of foreign exchange," said Mackay.
Kellogg re-affirmed its internal sales growth guidance of 3  4% for full-year 2009, which is above the Company's long-term targets. The Company now anticipates increased gross margin expansion for full-year 2009 of approximately 100 basis points, reflecting strong productivity gains and slightly lower than expected inflation. Kellogg also raised guidance for 2009 internal operating profit growth to a range of 8  10%, above the Company's long-term targets and despite significant re-investment in advertising and up-front costs. In addition, the Company raised its currency-neutral earnings per share guidance for 2009 from a range of 8  10% to a range of 10  12%, reflecting strong profit growth slightly offset by higher interest expense.
Supported by the strong performance in 2009, continuing momentum and significant re-investment, the Company is well-positioned to deliver another year of strong growth in 2010. For 2010, Kellogg anticipates internal net sales growth of 2  3%, in line with the Company's long-term targets and reflecting less pricing year-on-year. Up-front costs for full-year 2010 will decrease from 2009's 26 cents per share to a range of 14  16 cents per share and this decrease will positively
 
 
impact operating profit and net earnings. Accordingly, the Company anticipates internal operating profit growth in the high single-digit range, above its long-term annual targets. Reflecting this higher level of anticipated profit growth for 2010, the Company further guided to a range of 10  12% earnings per share growth on a currency-neutral basis, anticipating a second consecutive year of growth above its long-term annual targets.
CEO Mackay concluded, "Although most aspects of our guidance for both 2009 and 2010 are above our long-term targets, we are pragmatic about the challenging environment we face. Hence, we are focused on continued reinvestment into our brands, as well as optimizing our business model and global organization  while achieving cost savings and future visibility. We therefore remain confident in our ability to continue delivering sustainable, dependable performance in the future."
Kellogg will host a conference call to discuss these results on October 29, 2009 at 9:30 am Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call and accompanying presentation slides will be broadcast live over the Internet at . Analysts and institutional investors may participate in the Q&A session by dialing 888-465-4043 (US) or 201-604-5146 (International). Members of the media and the public are invited to attend in a listen-only mode. Rebroadcast information is also available at .
http://investor.kelloggs.com
http://investor.kelloggs.com
With 2008 sales of nearly $13 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, fruit-flavored snacks, frozen waffles, and veggie foods. The Company's brands include , , , , , , , , , , , , , and . Kellogg products are manufactured in 19 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit Kellogg's web site at .
Kellogg's
Keebler
Pop-Tarts
Eggo
Cheez-It
Nutri-Grain
Rice Krispies
BearNaked
Morningstar Farms
Famous Amos
Special K
All-Bran
Frosted Mini-Wheats
Club
Kashi
http://www.kelloggcompany.com
 
 
This news release contains, or incorporates by reference, "forward-looking statements" with projections concerning, among other things, the Company's strategy, and the Company's sales, earnings, margin, operating profit, costs and expenditures, interest expense, tax rate, capital expenditure, dividends, cash flow, debt reduction, share repurchases, costs, brand building, ROIC, working capital, growth, new products, innovation, cost reduction projects, and competitive pressures. Forward-looking statements include predictions of future results or activities and may contain the words "expects," "believes," "should," "will," "will deliver," "anticipates," "projects," "estimates," or words or phrases of similar meaning.
The Company's actual results or activities may differ materially from these predictions. The Company's future results could also be affected by a variety of factors, including the impact of competitive conditions; the effectiveness of pricing, advertising, and promotional programs; the success of innovation, renovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; commodity and energy prices; labor costs; the availability of and interest rates on short-term and long-term financing; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses, and other general and administrative costs; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; the effect of U.S. and foreign economic conditions on items such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, currency conversion and availability; legal and regulatory factors; the ultimate impact of product recalls; business disruption or other losses from war, terrorist acts or political unrest; and other items.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update them.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(millions, except per share data)
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(millions)
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(millions, except per share data)
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
Analysis of net sales and operating profit performance
Third quarter of 2009 versus 2008
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
Analysis of net sales and operating profit performance
Year-to-date 2009 versus 2008
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
Up-Front Costs*
$ millions
 
 


