FILE:K/K-8K-20091208161647.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 8, 2009, Kellogg Company ("Kellogg" or the "Company") announced that, effective January 3, 2010 (the first day of the Company's 2010 fiscal year), Ronald L. Dissinger, vice president, Kellogg Company, chief financial officer, Kellogg North America, would assume the role of chief financial officer of the Company, and report to John A. Bryant. Mr. Bryant, the Company's executive vice president, chief operating officer and chief financial officer will continue in his role as executive vice president and chief operating officer.
Mr. Dissinger, 50, has been vice president, Kellogg Company and chief financial officer, Kellogg North America since August 2007. He joined Kellogg in 1987 and served in several roles of increasing responsibility before being promoted to corporate vice president and chief financial officer, Kellogg International in June 2004. In 2005, he was appointed vice president and chief financial officer, Kellogg International and chief financial officer, Kellogg Europe.
On December 8, 2009, Kellogg issued a press release announcing the foregoing. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
BATTLE CREEK, Mich., Dec. 8, 2009  Kellogg Company announced today that Ronald Dissinger has been promoted to chief financial officer, Kellogg Company, effective Jan. 3, 2010.
Dissinger, who was previously vice president and chief financial officer for Kellogg North America, will provide strategic financial leadership across the company to help ensure that Kellogg continues to achieve its long-term, sustainable growth goals. Dissinger will serve as a member of the company's Global Leadership Team and report to John Bryant who had previously held the dual role of CFO and COO.
"Ron will ensure that Kellogg continues its disciplined focus on results and financial integrity while John focuses on the broader elements of the COO role to continue to strengthen our sustainable growth model," said David Mackay, President and CEO, Kellogg Company.
During his 22-year career with Kellogg, Dissinger has gained broad, global experience serving in a number of key financial leadership roles. Most recently, these include the dual position of chief financial officer, Kellogg Europe, and chief financial officer, Kellogg International, from 2005 to 2007, and later vice president and chief financial officer for Kellogg North America.
"Ron's business acumen and disciplined approach to finance have proven to be valuable assets to Kellogg," Bryant said. "His strong leadership abilities, and both his domestic and international experience make him ideally suited to serve as CFO."
With 2008 sales of nearly $13 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, fruit-flavored snacks, frozen waffles and veggie foods. The company's brands include , , , , , , , , , ,
Kellogg's
Keebler
Pop-Tarts
Eggo
Cheez-It
All-Bran
, Mini-Wheats
Nutri-Grain
Rice Krispies
Special K
Chips Deluxe, Famous Amos
, and. Kellogg products are manufactured in 19 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries. For more information, visit . Kellogg Company's Corporate Responsibility report including its approach, progress and future direction in the marketplace, workplace, environment and community can be found at . For information on Kellogg Company's commitment to nutrition, visit .
Sandies, Bear Naked, Kashi, MorningStar Farms
Gardenburger
Stretch Island
www.kelloggcompany.com
www.kelloggcompany.com/CR
www.kelloggsnutrition.com
 


