FILE:K/K-8K-20090224170516.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Kellogg Company (the "Company") adopted the 2009-2011 Executive Performance Plan and made option grants to the Company's named executive officers, each as set forth below.
. The Compensation Committee of the Board approved the 2009-2011 Executive Performance Plan ("2009-2011 EPP") under which certain senior executives and other employees would be eligible to receive a portion of their long-term incentives in the form of performance shares based on the achievement of multi-year cost savings targets. Awards are paid in shares, except for amounts withheld by the Company for minimum statutory withholding requirements. In addition, the Compensation Committee granted 2009-2011 EPP target awards ("Awards") of 34,500 shares for Mr. Mackay; 16,100 shares for Mr. Bryant; 8,300 shares for Mr. Davidson; 6,200 shares for Mr. Norman; and 4,100 shares for Mr. Mobsby. Participants in the 2009-2011 EPP have the opportunity to earn between 0% and 200% of their EPP target. Dividends are not paid on unvested EPP awards. The Awards are subject to approval of the Kellogg Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan by the Company's shareowners at the Company's 2009 Annual Meeting. A copy of the 2009-2011 EPP is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated in its entirety into this Item.
2009-2011 Executive Performance Plan
. The Compensation Committee of the Board approved the following grants of stock options to named executive officers of the Company: 321,700 options for Mr. Mackay; 150,400 options for Mr. Bryant; 77,300 options for Mr. Davidson; 57,700 options for Mr. Norman; and 38,000 options for Mr. Mobsby. The exercise price under these grants is $40.17 per share. Under the terms of the grants, the stock options generally vest in three equal annual installments from the anniversary of the grant date. A copy of the form of option terms and conditions for the grants is attached as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated in its entirety into this Item.
Option Grants
. Consistent with emerging market trends for corporate governance, base salaries for each of Mr. Mackay, Mr. Bryant, Mr. Davidson, Mr. Norman and Mr. Mobsby have been frozen for 2009 at 2008 levels.
Base Salary
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 10.1
: The Performance Shares will be earned on the Vesting Date (as defined below) only to the extent that the performance goal thresholds for the Performance Period are exceeded, with any unearned Performance Shares being forfeited without notice on the Vesting Date. The performance measure is Cost Savings over a three year period as described in the 2009-2011 Executive Performance Plan Overview (the "").
Awards
Overview
: The Company's 2009-2011 fiscal years.
Performance Period
: Performance Shares are earned and vest on the Board meeting that occurs closest to the third anniversary of the grant date, which Board meeting shall occur in the same calendar year as the third anniversary of the grant date, provided the Recipient remains continuously employed from the grant through such date (the ""), except as otherwise provided herein. The grant of the Performance Shares are expressly conditioned upon approval of the 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "") by the shareholders of the Company at the Company's next annual meeting of shareholders, or at any adjournment thereof. In the event the Plan is not so approved at such annual meeting, all of the rights and obligations with respect to the Performance Shares shall be of no force or effect. Upon the death, Disability or Retirement of a Participant prior to the Vesting Date, Performance Shares will continue to vest and such Participant will be eligible for a full un-prorated award upon vesting. Recipients will forfeit, without further notice and effective as of their date of termination any unvested Performance Shares if their employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement.
Vesting
Vesting Date
Plan
: Notwithstanding the above, in the event of a Change in Control, all Performance Shares will be considered fully earned and will be payable at target promptly as practicable following the Change in Control. The Compensation Committee may adjust the Performance Shares earned to the extent the Cost Savings performance at that date exceeds the target specified in the Overview, but in no case will the Performance Shares earned be less than the target.
Change in Control
: Dividends are not paid on Performance Shares. After the Performance Shares are vested and shares of the Company's Common Stock are deposited in a Wells Fargo account for the Participant (net of taxes) soon after the Vesting Date, dividends will be paid prospectively on all shares of such Company's Common Stock if and when declared by the Board of Directors.
Dividends
: Performance Shares are not entitled to any voting rights. After the Performance Shares are vested and shares of the Company's Common Stock are deposited in a Wells Fargo account for the Participant (net of taxes) soon after the Vesting Date, the Participant will be entitled to voting rights on such shares of the Company's Common Stock.
Voting
: Prior to the delivery of any shares of Company Common Stock in settlement of Performance Shares, the Company shall have the power and right to deduct or withhold or
Taxes
 
require the Participant to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state, local, or foreign taxes of any kind which the Company in its sole discretion deems necessary to be withheld or remitted to comply with any applicable law, rule, or regulation. Participants will be deemed to have elected to pay the withholding taxes owed by allowing the Company to withhold shares on the Vesting Date (and delivering to the Participant the net shares of the Company's common stock) having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount sufficient to satisfy the Company's minimum statutory withholding obligations. The Participant is responsible for paying Participant's taxes that results from the granting or vesting of the Performance Shares. Taxes include Federal taxes, social insurance or FICA taxes, and state and local taxes, or any other tax, if applicable.
: Soon after the Vesting Date, or the Change in Control, whichever is applicable, but in any event within the same calendar year as the Vesting Date or the Change in Control, the number of net shares of the Company's common stock earned will be deposited into a Wells Fargo account. After the shares of common stock are deposited following the Vesting Date, Participants can contact Wells Fargo at 1-877-910-5385 for customer service.
Administration
: Target awards will be communicated to Participants during the salary planning communication in late February and early March, when other pay decisions such as market and performance adjustment, bonus and stock option award are communicated. Participants will receive confirmation of the actual number of Performance Shares earned during the first quarter of the 2012 calendar year.
Communication
: Upon the depositing of the shares in the Wells Fargo account, shares of the Company's common stock will be registered in the Participant's name. Participants can change the registration of the shares by calling Wells Fargo.
Registration
: After the shares of the Company's common stock are deposited, Participants can leave the shares with Wells Fargo, ask Wells Fargo to sell the shares, have a certificate issued to the Participant or have the shares electronically transferred to another broker.
Disposition at Vesting
: Income from the 2009-2011 Executive Performance Plan will not be included in earnings for the purposes of determining benefits, including pension, S&I, disability, life insurance and other survivor benefits.
Benefits
: After the Performance Shares vest and the net shares of Company Common Stock are deposited, insiders cannot dispose of the shares of common stock without prior approval of the Legal Department.
Insiders
: The 2009-2011 Executive Performance Plan was adopted under the Plan and is subject to all the provisions of the Plan, including those related to the ability of the Board of Directors to amend the Plan, the Executive Performance Plan or any awards thereunder. Nothing in this summary, the Overview, or the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right of continued employment. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given such term in the Plan.
Other Plan Provisions
This plan summary is subject to the actual plan document and any additional terms and conditions as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Issued February 2009

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 


