FILE:K/K-8K-20090430080552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On April 30, 2009, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended April 4, 2009, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
 
BATTLE CREEK, Mich.  Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today reported solid first quarter 2009 growth in internal net sales, internal operating profit and currency-neutral earnings per share. The strong performance was driven by internal net sales growth and a focus on cost savings.
     Kellogg also announced that it plans to increase up-front cost investments for cost savings initiatives from the original expectation of $0.14 per share to approximately $0.22 per share for 2009, while still maintaining current 2009 earnings per share guidance. These investments will help enable the Company to deliver its goal of reducing annual costs by $1 billion by the end of 2011.
     First quarter net earnings were $321 million, a 2% increase from last year's $315 million. First quarter reported earnings per diluted share were $0.84, a 4% increase on a reported basis and a 14% increase on a currency-neutral basis. First quarter results included an estimated $0.05 per share impact due to the cost of the recent peanut-related recalls.
     "By remaining focused on our business model and strategy, we performed ahead of our expectations during the first quarter despite cost pressures and the difficult economic environment," said David Mackay, Kellogg's chief executive officer. "We also continue to focus on cost-savings initiatives and reinvestment for the future. We now plan to increase our up-front cost investments to achieve our ambitious $1 billion savings target."
     First quarter reported net sales decreased 3% to $3.2 billion. Internal net sales growth, which excludes the effects of foreign currency translation and acquisitions, rose 4%. Kellogg North America posted first quarter reported net sales growth of 3%; internal net sales growth was 4%. North America Retail Cereal delivered internal net sales growth of 6% for the quarter. Retail Snacks posted internal net sales growth of 2%, which was negatively impacted by the peanut-related recalls. North America Frozen and Specialty Channels businesses together delivered internal net sales growth of 6%.
 
     Kellogg International posted a first quarter 2009 reported net sales decline of 14%. However, net sales growth for Kellogg International was 4% on an internal basis, which excludes the effects of currency translation and acquisitions. First quarter internal net sales growth in Europe was 1% and was negatively impacted by some challenging retailer negotiations, which have now been resolved. Latin America internal net sales increased 8%, while Asia Pacific internal net sales rose 11%.
     First quarter operating profit was $529 million, a 3% decline on a reported basis, however on an internal basis it was a strong 7% increase. Total up-front costs for cost-reduction initiatives were approximately $0.03 per share, in line with the first quarter of last year.
     Cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $172 million for the quarter including the unfavorable impacts of foreign exchange and the timing of interest payments.
     Kellogg continues to be well positioned to drive sustainable and dependable performance. The Company affirmed its previous 2009 guidance of 3-4% internal net sales growth and mid single-digit internal operating profit growth. The Company remains confident that it can achieve high single-digit EPS growth on a currency-neutral basis, which excludes the effects of foreign currency translation. This guidance includes an approximately $0.06 earnings per share cost in 2009 from the peanut-related recalls and an increase in up-front charges for cost reduction initiatives from $0.14 per share to $0.22 per share.
     CEO Mackay concluded, "Our strong start increases our visibility with respect to another year of sustainable and dependable performance. For 2009, we will focus on driving solid top-line growth, considerable cost savings and strong reinvestment."
With 2008 sales of nearly $13 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, fruit-flavored snacks, frozen waffles, and veggie foods. The Company's brands include , , , , , , , , , , , , , and
Kellogg's
Keebler
Pop-Tarts
Eggo
Cheez-It
Nutri-Grain
Rice Krispies
BearNaked
Morningstar Farms
Famous Amos
Special K
All-Bran
Frosted Mini-Wheats
Club
 
. Kellogg products are manufactured in 19 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit Kellogg's web site at
Kashi
http://www.kelloggcompany.com.
     This news release contains forward-looking statements related to business performance, earnings, costs, cash flow, brand building, and cost-reduction initiatives. Actual performance may differ materially from these statements due to factors related to competitive conditions and their impact; the effectiveness of advertising, pricing and promotional spending; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; the success of innovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the availability of and interest rates on short-term financing; commodity and energy prices and labor costs; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; U.S. and foreign economic factors such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, and foreign currency conversions or unavailability; legal and regulatory factors; the ultimate impact of product recalls; business disruption or other losses from terrorist acts or political unrest; and other factors. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update them.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
(millions, except per share data)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
(millions)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
(millions, except per share data)
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 


