FILE:K/K-8K-20090205080544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On February 5, 2009, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended January 3, 2009, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
     BATTLE CREEK, Mich.  Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today reported strong 2008 sales and earnings growth. Fourth quarter earnings per diluted share grew 7% to $0.47, bringing the 2008 full-year earnings per share to $2.99. The fourth quarter results include a 6 cent per share adverse effect due to the estimated impact of the recent peanut-related recall.
     Reported net earnings for the full year were $1,148 million, a 4% increase over last year's $1,103 million. Full-year earnings per diluted share rose 8% to $2.99 versus the most recent estimate of $2.95 to $3.00. Reported earnings in the fourth quarter of 2008 were $179 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, compared to $176 million, or $0.44 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2007.
     "Kellogg delivered another year of sustainable and dependable results, despite significant cost pressures and the stress the economy is placing on consumers," said David Mackay, Kellogg's chief executive officer. "We also continued to focus on cost savings initiatives and added to our platform for future growth with acquisitions in Russia, China, the U.S. and Australia."
     Reported 2008 net sales increased 9% to $12.8 billion. Internal net sales growth, which excludes the effects of foreign currency translation, acquisitions and a 53 week, was 5%. Fourth quarter internal sales growth was 3%.
rd
     Kellogg North America posted broad-based 2008 reported net sales growth of 9%; internal net sales growth was 6%. Sales strength was driven by solid innovation and price realization. Internal sales growth in the fourth quarter was 3%. North America Retail Cereal posted internal net sales growth of 3% for the full year and the Retail Snacks business posted internal net sales growth of 6%. North America Frozen and Specialty Channels businesses delivered full-year internal net sales growth of 9%.
     Kellogg International also reported broad-based, 2008 full-year net sales growth of 9%, or 5% on an internal basis, which excludes the favorable effects of currency translation, acquisitions
 
and a 53 week. Internal sales growth in the fourth quarter was 4%. Full-year internal net sales in Europe and Latin America each increased 4%, while Asia Pacific internal sales rose 8%.
rd
     Operating profit in 2008 was $1,953 million, an increase of 5% on a reported basis and 4% on an internal basis. As anticipated, total up-front costs for cost-reduction initiatives were approximately $0.14 per share.
     Cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $806 million for the year including a discretionary $300 million year-end retirement plan contribution ($400 million before tax). The Company also announced a $650 million share repurchase authorization for 2009. The previous $500 million authorization has been canceled.
     Kellogg is well positioned to drive sustainable and dependable performance. The Company provided updated 2009 guidance of 3-4% internal sales growth versus the prior estimate of mid single-digit growth. In addition, internal operating profit is projected to grow at a mid single-digit rate. Currently, the Company expects a six cent adverse earnings per share impact in 2009 from the peanut-related recall, which is included in the full-year guidance. The Company remains confident that it can achieve high single-digit EPS growth on a currency neutral basis, which excludes the effects of foreign currency translation.
     CEO Mackay concluded, "We remain confident in our ability to deliver another year of sustainable and dependable performance. For 2009, we will focus on driving solid top-line growth as well as further cost-savings initiatives."
     With 2008 sales of nearly $13 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, fruit-flavored snacks, frozen waffles, and veggie foods. The Company's brands include , , , , , , , , , , , , , and . Kellogg products are manufactured in 19 countries and marketed in more than 180
Kellogg's
Keebler
Pop-Tarts
Eggo
Cheez-It
Nutri-Grain
Rice Krispies
Morningstar Farms
Famous Amos
Special K
Stretch Island
All-Bran
Frosted Mini-Wheats
Club
Kashi
 
countries around the world. For more information, visit Kellogg's web site at
http://www.kelloggcompany.com.
     This news release contains forward-looking statements related to business performance, earnings, costs, cash flow, brand building, and cost-reduction initiatives. Actual performance may differ materially from these statements due to factors related to competitive conditions and their impact; the effectiveness of advertising, pricing and promotional spending; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; the success of innovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the availability of and interest rates on short-term financing; commodity and energy prices and labor costs; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; U.S. and foreign economic factors such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, and foreign currency conversions or unavailability; legal and regulatory factors; the ultimate impact of product recalls; business disruption or other losses from terrorist acts or political unrest; and other factors. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update them.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
(millions, except per share data)
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA
 
 
(millions)
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
(millions, except per share data)
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET


