FILE:K/K-8K-20100726163834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 23, 2010, the Board of Directors of Kellogg Company (the "Company") elected John A. Bryant, the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, as a director of the Company. Mr. Bryant's initial term expires at the 2013 annual meeting of shareowners. At this time, Mr. Bryant will not serve on any committees of the Board and will not receive any additional compensation for his services as a director.
Biographical and other information about Mr. Bryant required by Item 5.02(d) of Form 8-K is contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010, and such information is incorporated by reference herein.
On July 26, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing the foregoing. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Exhibit 99.1. Kellogg Company's July 26, 2010 Press Release.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
BATTLE CREEK, MI, July 26, 2010 Kellogg Company's Board announced today the election of John A. Bryant, executive vice president and chief operating officer, as a director. Bryant has been executive vice president since 2002 and chief operating officer since 2008. He is also a member of the Company's global leadership team.
"John is a strong addition to our board," said Jim Jenness, chairman of the board, Kellogg Company. "He has an in-depth knowledge of the financial and operational elements of our business and an intense focus on helping the Company achieve sustainable, dependable results."
"We're pleased to have John join us as a management member of the Board," added David Mackay, chief executive officer, Kellogg Company. "He's worked closely with our Board for almost ten years. This appointment recognizes his great work and his ability to add even more value as a director of the Company."
Bryant joined Kellogg Company in 1998. In addition to serving in numerous leadership roles, he has led both the Kellogg North America and Kellogg International business units. He served as chief financial officer from 2002 to 2004 and from 2006 to 2009.
Bryant received a bachelor of commerce degree from Australian National University and an MBA (Palmer Graduate Scholar) from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He is an associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia and an associate of the Securities Institute of Australia.
With 2009 sales of nearly $13 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, fruit-flavored snacks, frozen waffles, and veggie foods. The Company's brands include , , , , , , , , , , , , , and . Kellogg products are manufactured in 18 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit the Kellogg Company web site at .
Kellogg's
Keebler
Pop-Tarts
Eggo
Cheez-It
Nutri-Grain
Rice Krispies
BearNaked
Morningstar Farms
Famous Amos
Special K
All-Bran
Frosted Mini-Wheats
Club
Kashi
http://www.kelloggcompany.com
 


