FILE:K/K-8K-20101206074334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On December 6, 2010, Kellogg Company ("Kellogg" or the "Company") announced that David Mackay, age 55, will retire as Kellogg's President, Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors effective January 1, 2011 (the last day of the Company's 2010 fiscal year). Kellogg's Board of Directors has elected John Bryant, age 45, as President and Chief Executive Officer, effective January 2, 2011. Mr. Mackay will work with Mr. Bryant through March 31, 2011, to help ensure a smooth transition.
In connection with this announcement, the independent members of the Company's Board determined that effective January 2, 2011, Mr. Bryant will receive a new annual base salary of $1,000,000. Mr. Bryant will also participate in the Kellogg Company 2011 Annual Incentive Plan ("AIP"), with a target award of 135%. Mr. Bryant will continue to participate in the Company's long-term incentive program ("LTIP"), and his 2011 LTIP target award will be established by the independent members of the Company's Board at approximately $5.2 million.
In addition, commencing January 2, 2011, Mr. Mackay will be paid at a rate equal to $50,000 per month through March 31, 2011. He will not participate in any future bonus plans, receive any additional long term incentives, or be eligible to participate in the Company's change of control or severance policies. A copy of the letter agreement between Mr. Mackay and Kellogg is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and the foregoing summary of its terms and conditions is qualified in its entirety by reference thereto.
Mr. Bryant joined Kellogg in March 1998, working in support of the global strategic planning process. He was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kellogg USA, in August 2000, was appointed as Kellogg's Chief Financial Officer in February 2002 and was appointed Executive Vice President later in 2002. He also assumed responsibility for the Natural and Frozen Foods Division, Kellogg USA, in September 2003. He was appointed Executive Vice President and President, Kellogg International in June 2004 and was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kellogg Company, President, Kellogg International in December 2006. In July 2007, Mr. Bryant was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kellogg Company, President, Kellogg North America and in August 2008, he was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Bryant served as Chief Financial Officer through December 2009. He has been a director of the Company since July 2010.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On December 6, 2010, Kellogg issued a press release announcing the foregoing and reaffirming its 2010 and 2011 guidance. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Dear David:
Given your ongoing time commitment to the Kellogg Company (the "Company") to help ensure a smooth transition of the business, you will receive the following compensation for providing transition services through March 31, 2011.
1. . You shall be paid at a rate equivalent to $50,000 per month for the period of time you remain an employee of the Company after January 1, 2011, the date you are retiring as President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company.
Compensation
In addition, as long as you remain an employee of the Company, you will be eligible to participate in the Company's employee welfare plans in effect from time to time, such as life, medical and dental insurance, and our savings and investment plan. Of course, you will also retain your vested benefits, the long-term grants you received previously according to the terms of the relevant plans, and your eligibility to retire from the Company. However, you will not be entitled to additional compensation or benefits from the Company. To be clear, you will not (a) participate in the 2011 or future Annual Incentive Plans or any other long-term incentive or performance plans (e.g., the 2011-2013 or future Executive Performance Plans); (b) be entitled to receive severance, disability or death benefits from the Company or otherwise participate in the Company's severance plan; (c) be entitled to receive change of control benefits from the Company or otherwise participate in the Company's Change of Control Plan; or (d) accrue any additional pension benefits by virtue of your continued employment with the Company.
2. . This letter and the agreements herein will be interpreted to avoid any penalty sanctions under Section 409A of the Code. Upon your request, the Company agrees to make any reasonable changes to this letter and the agreements herein that will assure that no sanctions will be imposed under Section 409A of the Code.
Section 409A
3. . You represent and warrant that no promise or inducement has been offered or made except as herein set forth and that you are entering into and executing this Agreement without reliance on any statement or representation not set forth within this Agreement by the Company, or any person(s) acting on its behalf.
No Other Representations
Mr. David Mackay
Page 2
December 3, 2010
 
4. . In consideration of the compensation and benefits provided pursuant to this letter agreement, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, you, for yourself and for any person who may claim by or through you, irrevocably and unconditionally releases, waives and forever discharges the Company and its respective officers, directors, attorneys, agents and employees, from any and all claims or causes of action that you had, have or may have, known or unknown, relating to your employment with the Company up until the date of this letter agreement, including but not limited to, any claims arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, Section 1981 of the Civil Rights Act of 1866, as amended, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, as amended, the Family and Medical Leave Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, as amended by the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act of 1990, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act; claims under any other federal, state or local statute, regulation or ordinance; claims for discrimination or harassment of any kind, breach of contract or public policy, wrongful or retaliatory discharge, defamation or other personal or business injury of any kind; and any and all other claims to any form of legal or equitable relief, damages, compensation or benefits (except rights you may have under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to recover any vested benefits), or for attorneys fees or costs. You additionally waive and release any right you may have to recover in any lawsuit or proceeding against the Company brought by you, an administrative agency, or any other person on your behalf or which includes you in any class.
Release
5. . The construction, interpretation, and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of Michigan, including conflict of laws. It is agreed that any controversy, claim or dispute between the parties, directly or indirectly, shall only be resolved in the Circuit Court of Calhoun County, or the United States District Court for the Western District of Michigan, whichever court has jurisdiction over the subject matter thereof, and the parties hereby submit to the jurisdiction of said courts.
Controlling Law and Venue
6. . This letter agreement, and the Agreement dated October 20, 2006 (together with this Agreement, the "Agreements") constitutes the entire agreement between you and the Company, and that the Agreements supersede any and all prior and/or contemporaneous written and/or oral agreements relating to such matters. If there is any conflict between this Agreement and the October 20, 2006 Agreement, this letter agreement shall control. You acknowledge that this letter agreement may not be modified except by written document, signed by you and the General Counsel of the Company.
Entire Agreement; Amendment
7. . The employment relationship described in this letter may be terminated by you or the Company for any reason at any time by providing notice to the other. Your employment with the Company described in this Agreement is an at-will employment relationship, and that only the General Counsel of Kellogg may modify this provision, and any modification must be in writing signed by both parties.
Employment Relationship
8. . This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in one or more counterparts, any one of which need not contain the signatures of more than one party, but all such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
Mr. David Mackay
Page 3
December 3, 2010
 
If the terms of this letter are acceptable to you, please sign in the space provided below.
 
Acknowledged and agreed this 3
rd
day of December, 2010
/s/ David Mackay

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
BATTLE CREEK, Mich.  Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) announced today that David Mackay advised the Kellogg Board of Directors that he plans to retire as president, chief executive officer and director of the Company. The effective date of his retirement will be January 1, 2011. According to its succession plan, the Board of Directors elected John A. Bryant, chief operating officer and current member of the Board, as the new president and chief executive officer effective January 2, 2011. David will work closely with John and the team to ensure a smooth transition through March 31, 2011.
"David has provided invaluable leadership to our Company. His focus on driving sustainable growth and his passion for our Company and people around the globe have been instrumental in our success," said Jim Jenness, chairman of the Kellogg Board of Directors.
Mackay added, "I have had the distinct privilege of working for this great Company over the past 20 years and serving as its CEO for the past four years. This past summer, I became eligible to retire and made a commitment to spend more time with my family. I am pleased to pass the baton to John, whose management capabilities and wealth of experience have prepared him well to drive our business agenda for 2011 and beyond."
"John has played a central role in our strategic and operational plans over the past decade. His leadership style embodies the Kellogg spirit and values," Jenness commented. "The Board and I are confident that his depth of knowledge and understanding of our business, our customers, and our organization make him the right choice to lead our Company."
John Bryant joined Kellogg in 1998 and has held numerous leadership roles. During his tenure with the Company, he has led the Kellogg North America and Kellogg International business units, served as chief financial officer from 2002 to 2004 as well as from 2006 to 2009, and assumed his current role of chief operating officer in 2008. Most recently, in July 2010, he was also elected to the Company's Board of Directors.
"I'm excited to lead this great Company with its 31,000 talented employees and more than 100-year legacy of beloved brands," Bryant noted. "The confidence bestowed upon me is immense, and I am honored and humbled to have been elected to serve in this capacity. We have a strong leadership team in place, and we are committed to delivering long-term, sustainable results."
Kellogg Company also reaffirms its 2010 and 2011 guidance. For fiscal year 2010, the Company continues to expect internal net sales to be down approximately 1%, internal operating profit to be approximately flat, and full-year currency-neutral earnings per share growth of 4 to 5%. For 2011, the Company still expects low single-digit internal net sales growth, flat to down 2% internal operating profit, and low single-digit earnings per share growth on a currency-neutral basis.
With 2009 sales of nearly $13 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, fruit-flavored snacks, frozen waffles, and veggie foods. The Company's brands include , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and . Kellogg products are manufactured in 18 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit the Kellogg Company web site at .
Kellogg's
Keebler
Pop-Tarts
Eggo
Cheez-It
Nutri-Grain
Rice Krispies
BearNaked
Morningstar Farms
Famous Amos
Special K
All-Bran
Frosted Mini-Wheats
Club
Kashi
http://www.kelloggcompany.com
This news release contains, or incorporates by reference, "forward-looking statements" with projections concerning, among other things, the Company's strategy, and the Company's sales, earnings, margin, operating profit, costs and expenditures, interest expense, tax rate, capital expenditure, dividends, cash flow, debt reduction, share repurchases, costs, brand building, ROIC, working capital, growth, new products, innovation, cost reduction projects, and competitive pressures. Forward-looking statements include predictions of future results or activities and may contain the words "expects," "believes," "should," "will," "will deliver," "anticipates," "projects," "estimates," or words or phrases of similar meaning.
The Company's actual results or activities may differ materially from these predictions. The Company's future results could also be affected by a variety of factors, including the impact of competitive conditions; the effectiveness of pricing, advertising, and promotional programs; the success of innovation, renovation, and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; commodity and energy prices; labor costs; disruptions or inefficiencies in supply chain; the availability of and interest rates on short-term and long-term financing; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses, and other general and administrative costs; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; the effect of U.S. and foreign economic conditions on items such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, currency conversion, and availability; legal and regulatory factors including changes in advertising and labeling laws and regulations; the ultimate impact of product recalls; business disruption or other losses from war, terrorist acts or political unrest; and other items.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update them.


