FILE:K/K-8K-20100429080634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On April 29, 2010, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended April 3, 2010, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated April 29, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
99.1 Financial results for the period ended April 3, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
BATTLE CREEK, Mich.  Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today reported solid first quarter 2010 growth in internal net sales, as well as robust internal operating profit and currency-neutral earnings per share growth. The strong operating profit performance was driven by continued focus on cost savings, moderating inflation costs, and timing of advertising expenditures.
First quarter net earnings were $418 million, a 30 percent increase over the first quarter a year ago. First quarter reported earnings per diluted share were $1.09, a 30 percent increase on a reported basis and a 27 percent increase on a currency-neutral basis.
First quarter reported net sales increased 5 percent to $3.3 billion. Internal net sales growth, which excludes the effects of foreign currency translation, rose 2 percent. Total operating profit for the first quarter 2010 grew 20 percent on a reported basis to $637 million, and internal operating profit increased 17 percent. Reported gross margin expanded 190 basis points to 43.0 percent in the quarter.
"We are pleased with our first quarter 2010 performance and are off to a positive start to the year," said David Mackay, Kellogg Company's chief executive officer. "By remaining focused on our business model and strategy, we delivered solid results during the first quarter despite facing anticipated pressure to our top-line."
North America
Kellogg North America posted first quarter reported net sales growth of 3 percent; internal net sales growth was 2 percent. North America Retail Cereal delivered internal net sales growth of approximately half of a percent for the quarter reflecting increased competition in the cereal category and the lapping of a strong first quarter in 2009. Retail Snacks posted internal net sales
growth of 5 percent, reflecting positive growth in all categories. The North America Frozen and Specialty Channels businesses posted an internal net sales decline of 3 percent, primarily a result of the supply disruption.
Eggo
North America operating profit rose 23 percent on a reported basis, and 22 percent on an internal basis. The increase is attributed to solid sales growth combined with robust gross margin expansion and shifts in the timing of reinvestment in our business.
International
Kellogg International posted a first quarter 2010 reported net sales increase of 9 percent. On an internal basis, net sales growth for Kellogg International was 2 percent, excluding the effects of currency translation. First quarter internal net sales growth in Europe was 2 percent. Latin America internal net sales increased 1 percent as the strong performance in Mexico was muted by the impact of excessive rains which caused extensive water damage to our manufacturing facility resulting in a supply disruption in Brazil during the first quarter. Asia Pacific internal net sales rose 1 percent, compared to a double-digit increase in the same period a year earlier.
First quarter 2010 Kellogg International operating profit increased 9 percent on a reported basis. Operating profit grew 3 percent on an internal basis due to solid sales growth and improved gross margin, partially offset by increased advertising expenditures.
Interest and Tax
In the first quarter 2010, Kellogg's interest expense totaled $65 million, an improvement over last year as a result of lower debt. Discrete tax benefits lowered the first quarter effective tax rate to 27.2 percent.
Cash flow
Cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $190 million for the quarter.
Kellogg continues to be well positioned to drive sustainable and dependable performance. The Company affirmed its previous 2010 guidance for full-year earnings per share growth on a
 
currency-neutral basis to be in the range of 11 to 13 percent. The Company reaffirmed its 2 to 3 percent 2010 internal net sales growth guidance, in line with long-term targets. The Company also reiterated its 2010 internal operating profit growth guidance of 8 to 10 percent, above its long-term annual targets. Up-front costs for full-year 2010 are still expected to be approximately $0.16 per share.
Kellogg also announced the Kellogg Company Board of Directors authorized a $2.5 billion three-year share repurchase program from 2010 through 2012, reinforcing its commitment to returning cash to shareholders. This authorization replaces the previously announced outstanding share buyback program.
CEO Mackay concluded, "For 2010, we will focus on improving top-line growth, continuing to implement our cost savings initiatives and reinvesting back in our business through increased brand building and additional productivity initiatives. Our strong start to 2010 increases our visibility for another year of sustainable and dependable performance."
Kellogg will host a conference call to discuss these results on April 29, 2010 at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The conference call and accompanying presentation slides will be broadcast live over the Internet at . Analysts and institutional investors may participate in the Q&A session by dialing 888-465-4043 in the U.S., and 201-604-5146 outside of the U.S. Members of the media and the public are invited to attend in a listen-only mode. Rebroadcast information is available at http://investor.kelloggs.com.
http://investor.kelloggs.com
With 2009 sales of nearly $13 billion, Kellogg Company is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, fruit-flavored snacks, frozen waffles, and veggie foods. The Company's brands include , , , , , , , , , , , , , and . Kellogg products are manufactured in 18 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries around the world. For more information, visit the Kellogg Company web site at .
Kellogg's
Keebler
Pop-Tarts
Eggo
Cheez-It
Nutri-Grain
Rice Krispies
BearNaked
Morningstar Farms
Famous Amos
Special K
All-Bran
Frosted Mini-Wheats
Club
Kashi
http://www.kelloggcompany.com
 
This news release contains, or incorporates by reference, "forward-looking statements" with projections concerning, among other things, the Company's strategy, and the Company's sales, earnings, margin, operating profit, costs and expenditures, interest expense, tax rate, capital expenditure, dividends, cash flow, debt reduction, share repurchases, costs, brand building, ROIC, working capital, growth, new products, innovation, cost reduction projects, and competitive pressures. Forward-looking statements include predictions of future results or activities and may contain the words "expects," "believes," "should," "will," "will deliver," "anticipates," "projects," "estimates," or words or phrases of similar meaning.
The Company's actual results or activities may differ materially from these predictions. The Company's future results could also be affected by a variety of factors, including the impact of competitive conditions; the effectiveness of pricing, advertising, and promotional programs; the success of innovation, renovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; commodity and energy prices; labor costs; disruptions or inefficiencies in supply chain; the availability of and interest rates on short-term and long-term financing; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses, and other general and administrative costs; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; the effect of U.S. and foreign economic conditions on items such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, currency conversion and availability; legal and regulatory factors including changes in advertising and labeling laws and regulations; the ultimate impact of product recalls; business disruption or other losses from war, terrorist acts or political unrest; and other items.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update them.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA
 
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(millions)
 
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
Analysis of net sales and operating profit performance
First quarter of 2010 versus 2009
 
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
Up-Front Costs*
$ millions
 
 


