FILE:K/K-8K-20110106082511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Tim Mobsby, European Chairman of Kellogg Company ("Kellogg" or the "Company") and a named executive officer, announced his intention to retire from Kellogg effective as of December 31, 2010 after 28 years of service to the Company.
After his retirement and pursuant to the terms of a consulting agreement, Mr. Mobsby will provide consulting services to the Company on an exclusive basis with respect to marketing and business development matters from time to time for a period up to eighteen months.
The Company will pay Mr. Mobsby at a rate of 3,430 per day that he provides consulting services (with a total amount of 1,100,000 expected to be paid under the agreement). The daily rate is based on his most recent base salary and target bonus on a per diem basis.
A copy of the consulting agreement between Mr. Mobsby and Kellogg is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and the foregoing summary of its terms and conditions is qualified in its entirety by reference thereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Consulting Agreement ("") is made by and between Timothy P Mobsby ("") and Kellogg International ("," together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, ""). Company and Consultant are collectively referred to herein as "parties," in singular or plural usages, as required by context.
Agreement
Consultant
Kellogg
Company
WHEREAS:
 
 
IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
 
 
Nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude Company from retaining the Services of other persons or entities undertaking the same or similar services as those undertaken by Consultant hereunder or from independently developing or acquiring materials or programs that are similar to, or competitive with, the services.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accordingly, Consultant and Company each acknowledge and agree that Consultant will not be treated as an employee for purposes of any applicable law covering the employer-employee relationship. Consultant further acknowledges that he is responsible for his own taxation affairs and for the payment of any taxation due in respect of the payment to the Consultant in connection with the provision of Services by the Consultant under this Agreement; and that he
 
understands his responsibilities with respect to the payment of these taxes. The Consultant agrees to indemnify the Company against all losses, costs, demands, damages, expenses and claims howsoever incurred by the Company in relation to the taxation treatment of the payments made under this Agreement or as a result of the breach by the Consultant of any of the terms of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Consultant acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions set out in this clause 19 are reasonable and necessary to protect the interests of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Company and Consultant have duly executed and delivered this Agreement as of the day first written above.
 
 


