FILE:K/K-8K-20111103080655.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On November 3, 2011, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended October 1, 2011, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated November 3, 2011
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
99.1 Financial results for the period ended October 1, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
BATTLE CREEK, Mich.  Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today announced that third quarter 2011 reported net sales increased 5 percent year-over-year to $3.3 billion. Internal net sales, which exclude the effects of foreign currency translation, rose 3 percent over the same period. Third quarter 2011 operating profit was $464 million, a decline of 14 percent on a reported basis and 16 percent on an internal basis. The decline is partially the result of the acceleration of costs related to supply-chain initiatives which increased cost of goods sold. Approximately 8 points of the decline is due to increased supply-chain costs and 12 points is due to the reinstatement of incentive compensation costs, which was discussed previously. Without these factors, operating profit would have increased from the level posted in the third quarter of 2010.
Third quarter reported net earnings were $290 million, or $0.80 per diluted share, an 11 percent decline from third quarter 2010 reported earnings of $0.90 per diluted share. On a currency-neutral basis, third quarter 2011 earnings per share declined 13 percent.
"We are continuing to rebuild our momentum as a company. The third quarter offered some compelling signs of improvement, particularly top-line growth and in-market performance. Rebuilding momentum takes time, especially in challenging market environments. We increased the levels of investment in our supply chain in the quarter, a process we will continue. This multi-year program will improve the infrastructure and drive reliability and capability," said John Bryant, Kellogg Company's president and chief executive officer.
North America
During the third quarter 2011, Kellogg North America net sales were $2.2 billion, a 4 percent increase on both a reported and internal basis. On an internal basis, North America Retail Cereal net sales were flat for the quarter due to fluctuations in trade inventory. However, underlying consumption in measured channels grew by approximately 5 percent. North America Retail Snacks delivered internal net sales growth of 3 percent driven by growth in crackers, cookies,
 
and wholesome snacks. Internal net sales for the North America Frozen and Specialty Channels grew a strong 12 percent driven by growth in the Frozen Foods business. North America operating profit decreased 12 percent on a reported basis and 13 percent on an internal basis driven by the supply-chain investment, the consequent higher cost of goods sold, and the reinstatement of incentive compensation.
International
Kellogg International posted third quarter reported net sales of $1.1 billion, an increase of 7 percent year-over-year on a reported basis. For Kellogg International, internal net sales growth, which excludes the effects of currency translation, increased 2 percent. Internal net sales in Europe declined 2 percent driven by a continuing difficult operating environment in the United Kingdom. Continental Europe continued to improve with growth posted across France, Italy, and Spain. Latin America internal net sales rose 9 percent. Latin America is building momentum across the region driven by strong innovation and brand-building investment. Asia Pacific's internal net sales grew 2 percent, but performance was adversely impacted by a customer trading issue in Australia.
Kellogg International operating profit declined 9 percent on a reported basis and 13 percent on an internal basis. Latin America's internal operating profit grew 19 percent for the quarter driven by strong sales growth. Europe's internal operating profit was down 21 percent due to the difficult trading environment in the United Kingdom and higher input costs. Asia Pacific's internal operating profit decreased by 14 percent in the third quarter driven by an issue with a customer in Australia.
Interest and Tax
In the third quarter 2011, Kellogg's interest expense totaled $58 million, an improvement over the same quarter in 2010. The reported effective tax rate for the third quarter 2011 was 27 percent.
Cash flow
Cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $877 million year-to-date. Year-to-date, Kellogg repurchased approximately $690 million of shares under its $2.5 billion three-year share repurchase authorization.
 
The Company reaffirmed its guidance for internal net sales growth in the range of 4 to 5 percent for the full-year 2011. The Company lowered its internal operating profit guidance to a range of down 2 to 4 percent for the year due to the impact of the third quarter results and expected continued investments in supply chain during the remainder of the year. Full-year currency-neutral earnings per share are now expected to be approximately flat on a year-over-year basis. Assuming no foreign exchange impact, this implies earnings per share of approximately $3.27 to $3.33. The Company estimates a foreign exchange benefit of $.08, which would result in reported 2011 earnings per share guidance in the range of $3.35 to $3.41
.
The Company continues on the path to rebuild momentum in 2012. Internal net sales are expected to grow by 4 to 5 percent, above long-term annual targets, reflecting price/mix benefits and a strengthening innovation pipeline. Kellogg expects growth in operating profit and earnings per share to be below its long-term annual targets, as it continues to invest in the future. Currency-neutral earnings per share are anticipated to grow 2 to 4 percent including a benefit from the three-year $2.5 billion share repurchase program and the impact of continued investments in supply chain, the re-implementation of SAP, and an increase in the level of investment in brand building.
Bryant continued, "We're making progress in 2011 by strengthening our innovation pipeline and investing in our supply chain. We expect this progress to continue throughout 2012 as we work to invest further in our ability to deliver dependable growth. As always, we are firmly committed to running the business for the long term and will continue to invest in our business in 2012; we believe this is the best way to ensure sustainable momentum."
Kellogg will host a conference call to discuss these results on November 3, 2011 at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The conference call and accompanying presentation slides will be broadcast live over the Internet at Analysts and institutional investors may participate in the Q&A session by dialing (888) 338-8373 in the U.S., and (973) 872-3000 outside of the U.S. Members of the media and the public are invited to attend in a listen-only mode. Rebroadcast information is available at http://investor.kelloggs.com.
http://investor.kelloggs.com.
 
For more than 100 years, consumers have counted on Kellogg for great-tasting, high-quality and nutritious foods. Kellogg Company, with 2010 sales of more than $12 billion, is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods, including cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, fruit-flavored snacks, frozen waffles and veggie foods. Kellogg Company's beloved brands, which are manufactured in 18 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries, include , , , , , , , , , , , . For more information on the Kellogg Company, including our corporate responsibility initiatives, visit .
Kellogg's
Keebler
Pop-Tarts
Eggo
Cheez-It
All-Bran
, Mini-Wheats
Nutri-Grain
Rice Krispies
Special K
Chips Deluxe, Famous Amos
Sandies, Austin, Club, Murray, Kashi, Bear Naked, Morningstar Farm
Gardenburger and Stretch Island
www.kelloggcompany.com
This news release contains, or incorporates by reference, "forward-looking statements" with projections concerning, among other things, the Company's strategy, and the Company's sales, earnings, margin, operating profit, costs and expenditures, interest expense, tax rate, capital expenditure, dividends, cash flow, debt reduction, share repurchases, costs, brand building, ROIC, working capital, growth, new products, innovation, cost reduction projects, and competitive pressures. Forward-looking statements include predictions of future results or activities and may contain the words "expects," "believes," "should," "will," "anticipates," "projects," "estimates," "implies," "can," or words or phrases of similar meaning.
The Company's actual results or activities may differ materially from these predictions. The Company's future results could also be affected by a variety of factors, including the impact of competitive conditions; the effectiveness of pricing, advertising, and promotional programs; the success of innovation, renovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; commodity and energy prices; labor costs; disruptions or inefficiencies in supply chain; the availability of and interest rates on short-term and long-term financing; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses, and other general and administrative costs; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; the effect of U.S. and foreign
 
economic conditions on items such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, currency conversion and availability; legal and regulatory factors including changes in food safety, advertising and labeling laws and regulations; the ultimate impact of product recalls; business disruption or other losses from war, terrorist acts or political unrest; and other items.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update them.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(millions, except per share data)
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(millions)
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(millions, except per share data)
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
Analysis of net sales and operating profit performance
 
 
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
Analysis of net sales and operating profit performance
 
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
Up-Front Costs*
$ millions
 
 
 
 


