FILE:K/K-8K-20120426080554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On April 26, 2012, Kellogg Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the period ended March 31, 2012, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
BATTLE CREEK, Mich.  Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) today announced first quarter 2012 reported net sales of $3.4 billion, a 1.3 percent decline from the first quarter of 2011. Internal net sales, which exclude the effects of foreign currency translation and acquisitions and dispositions, remain approximately unchanged from the same period last year. First-quarter 2012 reported operating profit was $535 million, a decline of 6.5 percent; internal operating profit declined by 6.1 percent. This decline was the result of lower-than-expected results in the European business and in some categories in the U.S., high-levels of commodity inflation, and the timing of 2012's investment in the company's continuing supply-chain initiatives.
First quarter 2012 reported net earnings were $358 million, or $1.00 per diluted share, approximately unchanged from the first quarter of 2011. First quarter 2012 reported net earnings included a $26 million pre-tax benefit from hedging activities associated with the pending acquisition of the Pringles business.
"While results in the first quarter were lower than we had planned due to weakness in Europe and certain other businesses, we are confident that we are taking the right actions and investing in the right places," said John Bryant, Kellogg Company's president and chief executive officer.
North America
Kellogg North America reported net sales growth of 1.5 percent in the first quarter; internal net sales growth was 1.6 percent. In the first quarter, U.S. Morning Foods and Kashi posted an internal net sales decline of 1.7 percent and U.S. Snacks posted internal net sales growth of 2.3 percent. The U.S. Specialty business posted strong internal net sales growth of 7.8 percent and the North America Other segment reported internal net sales growth of 3.4 percent. First quarter reported North American operating profit declined by 5.1 percent; North American internal operating profit declined by 5.0 percent.
 
International
Kellogg International reported a net sales decline of 7.1 percent in the first quarter. Internal net sales for the quarter declined 3.7 percent. The Latin American business posted internal net sales growth of 7.5 percent in the quarter. Internal net sales in our European business decreased by 10.4 percent as a result of continued weakness in the region and issues specific to the business. The Asia Pacific segment posted internal net sales growth of 1.6 percent.
Kellogg International's first quarter reported operating profit declined by 10.7 percent; internal operating profit declined by 9.7 percent. Latin America's internal operating profit increased by 10.6 percent in the first quarter. Europe's first-quarter internal operating profit declined by 19.8 percent and accounted for all of the International business' decline in the quarter. Asia Pacific's internal operating profit decreased by 0.6 percent.
Interest and Tax
Kellogg's interest expense totaled $32.6 million in the first quarter, including the $26 million benefit from hedging. The reported effective tax rate for the quarter was 30.5 percent.
Cash flow
Cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $277 million for the first quarter, compared to $207 million in the first quarter of 2011. Kellogg repurchased $63 million of shares, all of which were completed early in the quarter.
As previously announced, Kellogg adjusted its guidance for internal net sales growth to a range between 2 and 3 percent. The decline was driven by the Company's European business and initial weak volume growth in certain U.S. categories. As a result of the change in sales guidance, the Company now expects that full-year internal operating profit will decline between 2 to 4 percent. Expectations for full-year, as-reported earnings per share have been lowered by approximately 2
 
percent to a range between $3.18 and $3.30 per share, including the expected impact of the Pringles acquisition, continued investments in supply chain, an update of the company's SAP platform, continued investment in brand building, and lower-than-originally-anticipated share repurchases.
"Despite the difficult environment we faced in the first quarter, we remain committed to investment and optimistic about the strength of our brands and the categories in which we compete," continued Bryant. "We're also very excited about adding the great Pringles brand to our family. The acquisition of the Pringles business will bring significant opportunity and only increases our confidence in the long-term potential of our business."
Kellogg will host a conference call to discuss these results on April 26, 2012 at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The conference call and accompanying presentation slides will be broadcast live over the Internet at . Analysts and institutional investors may participate in the Q&A session by dialing (888) 338-8373 in the U.S., and (973) 872-3000 outside of the U.S. Members of the media and the public are invited to attend in a listen-only mode. Rebroadcast information is available at http://investor.kelloggs.com.
http://investor.kelloggs.com
Driven to enrich and delight the world through foods and brands that matter, Kellogg Company () is the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of snacks and frozen foods. Every day, our well-loved brands  produced in 17 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries  nourish families so they can flourish and thrive. With 2011 sales of more than $13 billion, these brands include and many more To learn more about Kellogg Company, including our corporate responsibility initiatives and rich heritage, please visit .
NYSE: K
Cheez-It, Coco Pops, Corn Flakes, Eggo, Frosted Flakes, Kashi, Keebler, Kellogg's, Mini-Wheats, Pop-Tarts, Rice Krispies, Special K,
.
www.kelloggcompany.com
This news release contains, or incorporates by reference, "forward-looking statements" with projections concerning, among other things, the pending acquisition of the Pringles business, the Company's strategy, and the Company's sales, earnings, margin, operating profit, costs and
 
expenditures, interest expense, tax rate, capital expenditure, dividends, cash flow, debt reduction, share repurchases, costs, brand building, ROIC, working capital, growth, new products, innovation, cost reduction projects, and competitive pressures. Forward-looking statements include predictions of future results or activities and may contain the words "expects," "believes," "should," "will," "anticipates," "projects," "estimates," "implies," "can," or words or phrases of similar meaning.
The Company's actual results or activities may differ materially from these predictions. The Company's future results could also be affected by a variety of factors, including the ability to complete the acquisition of the Pringles business and the realization of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition in the amounts and at the times expected, the impact of competitive conditions; the effectiveness of pricing, advertising, and promotional programs; the success of innovation, renovation and new product introductions; the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles; the success of productivity improvements and business transitions; commodity and energy prices; labor costs; disruptions or inefficiencies in supply chain; the availability of and interest rates on short-term and long-term financing; actual market performance of benefit plan trust investments; the levels of spending on systems initiatives, properties, business opportunities, integration of acquired businesses, and other general and administrative costs; changes in consumer behavior and preferences; the effect of U.S. and foreign economic conditions on items such as interest rates, statutory tax rates, currency conversion and availability; legal and regulatory factors including changes in food safety, advertising and labeling laws and regulations; the ultimate impact of product recalls; business disruption or other losses from war, terrorist acts or political unrest; and other items.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update them publicly.
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(millions, except per share data)
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED OPERATING SEGMENT DATA
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(millions)
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(millions, except per share data)
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
Analysis of net sales and operating profit performance
 
 
 
Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries
Up-Front costs*
$ millions
 
 
 


