FILE:K/K-8K-20120808161503.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explanatory Note.
This Form 8-K/A is filed as an amendment to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Kellogg Company on May 31, 2012, announcing the completion of the acquisition of the Pringles business. This amendment is being filed solely for the purpose amending and supplementing Item 9.01 to include the required financial statements and pro forma financial information of the Pringles business. No other changes were made to the text of the filing.
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On May 31, 2012, Kellogg Company ("") and The Procter & Gamble Company ("") entered into an Amended and Restated Transaction Agreement (the "") with respect to the sale of the Pringles business by P&G to Kellogg, for $2.695 billion in cash, subject to a working capital adjustment (the "").
Kellogg
P&G
Transaction Agreement
Acquisition
The foregoing description of the terms of the Transaction Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Transaction Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 1.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition.
On May 31, 2012, Kellogg completed the Acquisition in accordance with the Transaction Agreement.
A copy of the press release issued by Kellogg on May 31, 2012 relating to the completion of the Acquisition is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The audited combined financial statements of the acquired Pringles business and the notes thereto, for the year ended June 30, 2011, are included as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
The unaudited condensed combined financial statements of the acquired Pringles business and the notes thereto, for the nine months ended March 31, 2012, are included as Exhibit 99.3 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information of Kellogg, giving effect to the acquisition of the Pringles business, is included in Exhibit 99.4 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 8, 2012
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-72312, 333-135767, 333-159303 and 333-182641) and the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-40651, 333-56536, 333-88162, 333-109233, 333-109234, 333-109235, 333-109238, 333-158824, and 333-158826) of Kellogg Company of our report dated September 16, 2011 (which expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph related to the allocation of parent company costs) relating to the combined financial statements of Pringles appearing in this report on Form 8-K of the Kellogg Company dated August 8, 2012.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Cincinnati, Ohio
August 8, 2012

Exhibit 99.2
PRINGLES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
To the Board of Directors of
The Procter & Gamble Company:
We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheet of Pringles (the "Company") (a combination of wholly owned subsidiaries and operations of the snacks business of The Procter & Gamble Company) as of June 30, 2011, and the related combined statements of income, equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. As discussed in Note 2, the combined financial statements have been "carved out" from The Procter & Gamble Company's consolidated financial statements to present the historical financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of The Procter & Gamble Company's snacks business. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
.
In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the combined financial position of the Company as of June 30, 2011, and the combined results of its operations and its combined cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
As discussed in Note 2, the combined financial statements of the Company include allocations of certain corporate costs from The Procter & Gamble Company. These costs may not be reflective of the actual level of costs which would have been incurred had the Company operated as a separate entity apart from The Procter & Gamble Company.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
September 16, 2011
Cincinnati, Ohio
PRINGLES
COMBINED STATEMENT OF INCOME
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2011
(Dollars in millions)
 
See notes to combined financial statements.
 
PRINGLES
COMBINED BALANCE SHEET
JUNE 30, 2011
(Dollars in millions)
 
See notes to combined financial statements.
 
PRINGLES
COMBINED STATEMENT OF EQUITY
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2011
(Dollars in millions)
 
Note: Comprehensive income (loss) is recorded net of tax of $0.0.
See notes to combined financial statements.
 
PRINGLES
COMBINED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2011
(Dollars in millions)
 
See notes to combined financial statements.
 
PRINGLES
NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2011
(Dollars in millions, except as otherwise specified)
1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS
Pringles (the "Company") is a combination of wholly owned subsidiaries and operations of the snacks business of The Procter and Gamble Company ("P&G").
The Company engages in the manufacturing, marketing and distributing of snack foods, primarily under the Pringles brand, on a global basis and sells snacks products in over 140 countries around the world across North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.
The Company sells its products principally to leading mass merchandisers, grocery retailers, membership club stores and convenience outlets globally, either via P&G sales force or third-party distributors.
2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION
The Company, which comprises all of P&G's snacks business, signed an agreement on April 5, 2011 to merge the operations of the Company into Diamond Foods, Inc. ("Diamond") for consideration in Diamond common stock valued at approximately $1.5 billion, plus assumption of debt valued between $700 million and $1.05 billion. The transaction is expected to close by the end of the 2011 calendar year, subject to customary closing conditions including necessary regulatory and Diamond shareholder approvals. The Company's combined financial statements reflect the historical financial position, results of operations and cash flows as owned by P&G for all periods presented. Prior to the expected separation transaction, P&G has not accounted for the Company as, and the Company has not been operated as, a stand-alone company for the periods presented. The Company's historical financial statements have been "carved out" from P&G's consolidated financial statements and reflect assumptions and allocations made by P&G. The combined financial statements do not fully reflect what the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been had the Company been a stand-alone company during the periods presented. As a result, historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future.
The Company's historical combined financial statements were prepared using P&G's historical basis in the assets and liabilities of the business. The Company's historical combined financial statements include all revenues, costs, assets and liabilities directly attributable to its business. In addition, certain expenses reflected in the combined financial statements include allocations of corporate expenses from P&G, which in the opinion of management are reasonable (see further discussion in Note 4). All such costs and expenses have been deemed to have been paid by the Company to P&G in the period in which the costs were recorded. Allocations of current income taxes are deemed to have been remitted, in cash, to P&G in the period the related income taxes were recorded. Amounts due to or from P&G, related to a variety of intercompany transactions including the collection of trade receivables, payment of accounts payable and accrued liabilities, charges of allocated corporate expenses and payments of taxes paid by P&G on behalf of the Company, have been classified within divisional equity. Intercompany transactions are eliminated. For the year ended June 30, 2011, the Company has evaluated subsequent events for potential recognition and disclosure through September 16, 2011, the date of financial statement issuance.
 
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 Preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the combined financial statements and accompanying notes. These estimates and assumptions are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that the Company may undertake in the future. Estimates are used in accounting for, among other items, consumer and trade promotion accruals, useful lives for property, plant and equipment, future cash flows associated with long-lived asset impairment testing, allocated pension and other post employment benefits costs, stock compensation, deferred tax assets and liabilities, uncertain tax positions and contingencies. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions.
Use of Estimates
 Sales are recognized when revenue is realized or realizable and has been earned. The revenue recorded is presented net of sales and other taxes the Company collects on behalf of governmental authorities and includes shipping and handling costs, which generally are included in the invoice price to the customer. The Company's policy is to recognize revenue when title to the product, ownership and risk of loss are transferred to the customer, which can either be on the date of shipment or the date of receipt by the customer. Payment discounts and product returns are recorded as a reduction of sales in the same period that the revenue is recognized. Trade promotions, consisting primarily of customer pricing allowances, merchandising funds and consumer coupons, are offered through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales are recorded net of trade promotion spending, which is recognized as incurred, generally at the time of the sale. Most of these arrangements have terms of approximately one year. Accruals for expected payments under these programs are included as accrued marketing and promotion expense in the accrued expenses and other liabilities line item in the combined balance sheets.
Revenue Recognition
 Cost of products sold is primarily comprised of direct materials and supplies consumed in the production of product, as well as production labor, depreciation expense and direct overhead expense necessary to acquire and convert the purchased materials and supplies into finished product. Cost of products sold also includes the cost to distribute products to customers, inbound freight costs, internal transfer costs, warehousing costs and other shipping and handling activity.
Cost of Products Sold
 Selling, general and administrative expense ("SG&A") is primarily comprised of marketing expenses, selling expenses, research and development costs, administrative and other indirect overhead costs, depreciation expense on non-production assets and other miscellaneous operating items.
Selling, General and Administrative
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and were $22.3 in 2011. Advertising costs, expensed as incurred, include television, print, radio, internet and in-store advertising expenses and were $105.8 in 2011. Non-advertising related components of the Company's total marketing spending include costs associated with consumer promotions, product sampling and sales aids, which are included in SG&A, and coupons and customer trade funds, which are recorded as reductions to net sales.
 Financial statements of operations outside the United States of America ("U.S.") generally are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Adjustments to translate those statements into U.S. dollars are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ("OCI"). Foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses are immaterial for all periods presented.
Currency Translation
 
 The combined statement of cash flows is prepared using the indirect method, which reconciles net earnings to cash flows from operating activities. The reconciliation adjustments include the removal of timing differences between the occurrence of operating receipts and payments and their recognition in net income. The adjustments also remove cash flows from investing and financing activities, which are presented separately from operating activities. Cash flows from foreign currency transactions and operations are translated at an average exchange rate for the period. Cash flows from hedging activities are included in the same category as the items being hedged.
Cash Flow Presentation
 As described in Note 4, the Company has historically participated in P&G's cash management system and has no separate cash balances; accordingly all cash derived from or required for the Company's operations is applied to or against divisional equity. Restricted cash in the combined balance sheet represents margin account deposits at financial institutions held as collateral for raw material futures contracts.
Cash, Cash Equivalents
 Receivables are recognized net of payment discounts and allowances. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.4 as of June 30, 2011.
Accounts Receivable
 Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value. Inventories are maintained on the first-in, first-out method. The cost of spare part inventories is maintained using the average cost method.
Inventory Valuation
 Property, plant and equipment is recorded at historical cost reduced by accumulated depreciation. Depreciation expense is recognized over the assets' estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Machinery and equipment includes office furniture and fixtures (15-year life), computer equipment and capitalized software (3- to 5-year lives) and manufacturing equipment (3- to 20-year lives). Buildings are depreciated over an estimated useful life of 40 years. Estimated useful lives are periodically reviewed and, when appropriate, changes are made prospectively. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, asset lives may be adjusted and an impairment assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying amounts.
Property, Plant and Equipment
 Certain employees of the Company participate in P&G's various share based incentive plans under which stock options or stock awards may be granted to certain executives and management. See Note 6.
Stock-Based Compensation
 The Company is included in P&G's consolidated tax returns in various jurisdictions and accounts for income taxes under the separate return method. Under this approach, the Company determines its tax liability and deferred tax assets and liabilities as if it were filing separate tax returns. See Note 8.
Income Taxes
 No new accounting prouncements issued or effective during the fiscal year have had or are expected to have a material impact on the combined financial statements.
New Accounting Pronouncements and Policies
4. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
These statements reflect allocated expenses associated with centralized P&G support functions including: legal, accounting, tax, treasury, internal audit, information technology, human resources and other services. The costs associated with these functions generally include all payroll and benefit costs as well as related overhead costs. P&G also allocated costs to the Company associated with office facilities, corporate insurance coverage and medical, pension, post-retirement and other health plan costs attributed to the Company's employees participating in P&G sponsored plans. Allocations are based on
 
a number of utilization measures including headcount, square footage and proportionate effort. Where determinations based on utilization are impracticable, P&G uses other methods and criteria such as net sales that are believed to be reasonable estimates of costs attributable to the Company. All such amounts have been deemed to have been paid by the Company to P&G in the period in which the costs were recorded.
Central treasury activities include the investment of surplus cash, the issuance, repayment and repurchase of short-term and long-term debt and interest rate and foreign currency risk management. All P&G funding to the Company since inception has been accounted for as capital contributions from P&G and all cash remittances from the Company to P&G have been accounted for as distributions to P&G. Accordingly, no debt or related interest charges from P&G are reflected in these combined financial statements. For all periods presented, the Company had significant net positive cash flow, which has been accounted for as distributions to P&G.
5. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Selected components of accrued expenses and other liabilities are set forth below:
 
6. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
Certain of the Company's employees have been granted P&G stock options under P&G's primary stock-based compensation plan. Under this plan, stock options are granted annually to key managers with exercise prices equal to the market price of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. Grants issued under this plan vest after three years and have a 10-year life. Grants issued from July 1998 through August 2002 vested after three years and have a 15-year life. In addition to the grants made to key managers, a certain number of the Company's employees have been granted an immaterial number of P&G stock options for which vesting terms and option periods are not substantially different. Additionally, there are other grants of restricted stock units that are immaterial.
Total stock-based compensation expense for stock option grants and restricted stock unit grants was $3.0 for 2011.
 
In calculating the compensation expense for options granted, the Company utilizes a binomial lattice-based valuation model. Assumptions utilized in the model, which are evaluated and revised, as necessary, to reflect market conditions and experience, were as follows:
 
Lattice-based option valuation models incorporate ranges of assumptions for inputs, and those ranges are disclosed in the preceding table. Expected volatilities are based on a combination of historical volatility of P&G stock and implied volatilities of call options on P&G stock. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination patterns within the valuation model. The expected life of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the average period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The interest rate for periods within the contractual life of the options is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
The following table summarizes stock option activity under the P&G plans as it relates to employees of the Company:
 
The weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted was $11.05 per share in 2011. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $0.5 in 2011. The total grant-date fair value of options that vested during 2011 was $3.6.
At June 30, 2011, there was $2.7 of compensation cost that has not yet been recognized related to stock option grants. That cost is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average period of 1.7 years under the ongoing P&G plan.
 
7. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS
Certain employees of the Company participate in P&G's pension and other post-retirement employee benefit plans. These plans are accounted for by the Company as multi-employer plans which require the Company to expense its annual contributions.
P&G provides defined benefit pension plans for employees who become eligible for these benefits when they meet minimum age and service requirements. Defined benefit pension plan participants are mainly non-U.S. based employees. Defined benefit pension expenses allocated to the Company were $2.7 for 2011.
P&G provides certain other retiree benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, for employees who become eligible for these benefits when they meet minimum age and service requirements. Generally, the health care plans require cost sharing with retirees and pay a stated percentage of expenses, reduced by deductibles and other coverages. Other post-retirement benefits expenses allocated to the Company were $3.5 for 2011.
P&G has defined contribution plans which cover the majority of its U.S. employees, including the employees of the Company. These plans are fully funded. P&G generally makes contributions to participants' accounts based on individual base salaries and years of service. For the primary U.S. defined contribution plan, the contribution rate is set annually. Total contributions for this plan approximated 15% of total participants' annual wages and salaries in 2011. Defined contribution benefit expenses allocated to the Company were $7.7 for 2011.
8. INCOME TAXES
Income taxes are recognized for the amount of taxes payable for the current year and for the impact of deferred tax liabilities and assets, which represent future tax consequences of events that have been recognized differently in the financial statements than for tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are established using the enacted statutory tax rates and are adjusted for any changes in such rates in the period of change.
Earnings before income taxes consisted of the following:
 
 
Income taxes consisted of the following:
 
A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the Company's actual income tax rate is provided below:
 
Changes in uncertain tax positions represent changes in the Company's net liability related to prior year tax positions.
The Company has undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries of approximately $376.6 at June 30, 2011, for which deferred taxes have not been provided. Such earnings are considered indefinitely invested in the foreign subsidiaries. If such earnings were repatriated, additional tax expense may result, although the calculation of such additional taxes is not practicable.
 
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending liability for uncertain tax positions is as follows:
 
The Company is present in over 66 taxable jurisdictions, and at any point in time, has several audits underway at various stages of completion. The Company evaluates its tax positions and establishes liabilities for uncertain tax positions that may be challenged by local authorities and may not be fully sustained, despite its belief that the underlying tax positions are fully supportable. Uncertain tax positions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, including progress of tax audits, developments in case law and closing of statute of limitations. Such adjustments are reflected in the tax provision as appropriate. The Company is making a concerted effort to bring its audit inventory to a more current position. The Company has done this by working with tax authorities to conduct audits for several open years at once. The Company has tax years open ranging from 2002 and forward. The Company is generally not able to reliably estimate the ultimate settlement amounts until the close of the audit. While the Company does not expect material changes, it is possible that the amount of unrecognized benefit with respect to the Company's uncertain tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months related to the audits described above. At this time, the Company is not able to make a reasonable estimate of the range of impact on the balance of uncertain tax positions or the impact on the effective tax rate related to these items.
Included in the total liability for uncertain tax positions at June 30, 2011 is $3.1 that, depending on the ultimate resolution, could impact the effective tax rate in future periods.
The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. As of June 30, 2011, the Company had accrued interest of $1.0 and penalties of $0.1 that are not included in the above table. During 2011, the Company recognized no interest expense and penalty/(benefit) of $(0.3).
 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities were comprised of the following:
 
Net operating loss carryforwards were $8.4 at June 30, 2011. If unused, the net operating losses will expire between 2012 and 2016.
9. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 The Company has purchase commitments for materials, supplies, services and property, plant and equipment as part of the normal course of business. Commitments made under take-or-pay obligations are $40.6 for fiscal 2012 and zero for the years thereafter. Such amounts represent future purchases in line with expected usage to obtain favorable pricing. Due to the proprietary nature of many of the Company's materials and processes, certain supply contracts contain penalty provisions for early termination. The Company does not expect to incur penalty provisions for early termination that would materially affect its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.
Purchase Commitments
 The Company has not issued any financial guarantees on behalf of suppliers or customers.
Guarantees
 The Company is subject to various lawsuits and claims with respect to matters such as governmental regulations and other actions arising out of the normal course of business. While considerable uncertainty exists, in the opinion of management and its counsel, the ultimate resolution of the various lawsuits and claims will not materially affect the Company's financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
Litigation
10. SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company has three reportable segments: North America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia. The reportable segments are each managed separately based upon geography and each reportable segment derives its revenues from the sale of snack foods under the Pringles brand to mass merchandisers, grocery retailers, membership club stores and convenience outlets. The segment information aggregates geographical regions with similar economic characteristics. North America primarily includes the United States, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico. North America also includes sales of snack foods to certain non-retail customers. EMEA includes the countries of Europe (most notably the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and the Netherlands), Middle Eastern countries (most notably Saudi Arabia, Israel and the United Arab Emirates) and Africa. Asia primarily includes Japan, South Korea, China, Australia, Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore. The Company's management uses net income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources.
 
Other includes the operating results of the Company's Latin America segment which does not meet the quantitative threshold for determining reportable segments as well as certain corporate activities that are not reflected in the operating results used internally to measure and evaluate the segments. Revenue in Latin America is derived from the sale of snack foods under the Pringles brand similar to the reportable segments. Corporate operating activities primarily include restructuring-type activities. Adjustments to arrive at the Company's effective tax rate are also included in Other. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 3 to the combined financial statements.
The Company had net sales in the U.S. of $517.8 in 2011. Assets in the U.S. totaled $271.8 as of June 30, 2011. Assets in Belgium totaled $152.2 as of June 30, 2011. Assets in Switzerland totaled $100.4 as of June 30, 2011.
The Company's largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for 13% of total net sales in 2011.
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
Pringles
(a combination of wholly owned subsidiaries and operations of the snacks business of The Procter & Gamble Company)
Unaudited Condensed Combined Financial Statements as of March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2011 and for the Nine Months Ended March 31, 2012 and 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1. Basis of Presentation
Pringles (the "Company") is a combination of wholly owned subsidiaries and operations of the snacks business of The Procter and Gamble Company ("P&G").
Effective February 14, 2012, the Company, The Procter & Gamble Company, and Diamond Foods, Inc. terminated the previous merger agreements. On February 15, 2012, P&G signed an agreement to sell the Company to The Kellogg Company in a $2.7 billion all-cash transaction. The transaction closed on May 31, 2012. The Company's unaudited condensed combined financial statements reflect the historical financial position, results of operations and cash flows as owned by P&G for all periods presented. Prior to the separation transaction, P&G has not accounted for the Company as, and the Company has not been operated as, a stand-alone company for the periods presented. The Company's historical unaudited condensed combined financial statements have been "carved out" from P&G's consolidated financial statements and reflect assumptions and allocations made by P&G.
These unaudited condensed combined financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial reporting. Accordingly, they do not include all the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, these unaudited condensed combined financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flow for the interim periods reported. These statements may not be fully representative of annual results and should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited combined financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011. These unaudited condensed combined financial statements reflect the historical financial position, results of operations and cash flow of the business to be transferred to Pringles by P&G as if the transfer had occurred prior to the periods presented. The unaudited condensed combined financial statements do not fully reflect what the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flow would have been had the Company been a stand-alone business during the periods presented. As a result, historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flow will be in the future.
These unaudited condensed combined financial statements were prepared using P&G's historical basis in the assets and liabilities of the business. The Company's unaudited historical condensed combined financial statements include all revenues, costs, assets and liabilities directly attributable to its business. In addition, certain expenses reflected in the unaudited condensed combined financial statements include allocations of corporate expenses from P&G, which in the opinion of management are reasonable. All such costs have been deemed to have been paid by the Company to P&G in the period in which they were recorded. Allocations of current income taxes are deemed to have been remitted, in cash, to P&G in the period the related income taxes were recorded. Amounts due to or from P&G, related to a variety of intercompany transactions including the collection of trade receivables, payment of accounts payable and accrued liabilities, charges of allocated corporate expenses and payments of taxes paid by P&G on behalf of the Company, have been classified within divisional equity. Intercompany transactions are eliminated.
For the nine months ended March 31, 2012, the Company has evaluated subsequent events for potential recognition and disclosure through May 31, 2012, the date of financial statement issuance.
Note 2. New Accounting Pronouncements and Policies
New Accounting Pronouncements and Policies
No new accounting pronouncement issued or effective during the fiscal year has had or is expected to have a material impact on the unaudited condensed combined financial statements.
 
Note 3. Stock-Based Compensation
Total stock-based compensation expense for stock option grants and restricted stock unit grants was $1.8 and $2.3 for the nine months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Note 4. Supplemental Financial Information
Selected components of accrued expenses and other liabilities are set forth below:
 
Total comprehensive income is comprised primarily of net earnings and net currency translation gains and losses. Total comprehensive income for the nine months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was $71.0 and $123.1, respectively.
Note 5. Commitments & Contingencies
Litigation
The Company is subject to various lawsuits and claims with respect to matters such as governmental regulations and other actions arising out of the normal course of business. While considerable uncertainty exists, in the opinion of management and its counsel, the ultimate resolution of the various lawsuits and claims will not materially affect the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flow.
Income taxes
The Company is present in over 66 taxable jurisdictions, and at any point in time, has several audits underway at various stages of completion. The Company evaluates the tax positions and establishes liabilities for uncertain tax positions that may be challenged by local authorities and may not be fully sustained, despite the belief that the underlying tax positions are fully supportable. Uncertain tax positions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, including progress of tax audits, developments in case law and closing of statute of limitations. Such adjustments are reflected in the tax provision as appropriate. The Company has tax years open ranging from 2001 and forward. The Company is generally not able to reliably estimate the ultimate settlement amounts until the close of the audit. While the Company does not expect material changes, it is possible that the amount of unrecognized benefit with respect to the uncertain tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months related to the audits described above. At this time, the Company is not able to make a reasonable estimate of the range of impact on the balance of uncertain tax positions or the impact on the effective tax rate related to these items.
Note 6. Segment Information
The Company has three reportable segments: North America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia. The reportable segments are each managed separately based upon geography and each reportable segment derives its revenues from the sale of snack foods under the Pringles brand to mass merchandisers, grocery retailers, membership club stores and convenience outlets. The segment information aggregates geographical regions with similar economic characteristics. North America primarily includes the United States, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico. North America also includes sales of snack foods to certain non-retail customers. EMEA includes the countries of Europe (most notably the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and the Netherlands), Middle Eastern countries (most notably Saudi Arabia, Israel and the United Arab Emirates) and Africa. Asia primarily
 
includes Japan, South Korea, China, Australia, Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore. The Company's management uses net income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Other includes the operating results of the Company's Latin America business which does not meet the quantitative threshold for determining reportable segments as well as certain corporate activities that are not reflected in the operating results used internally to measure and evaluate the segments. Revenues in Latin America are derived from the sale of snack foods under the Pringles brand similar to the reportable segments. Adjustments to arrive at the Company's effective tax rate are also included in Other.
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial data is provided for informational purposes only. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is not necessarily indicative of operating results that would have been achieved had the Acquisition been completed as of January 1, 2011 and does not intend to project the future financial results of Kellogg Company after the transaction. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet does not purport to reflect what our financial condition would have been had the transaction closed on March 31, 2012 or for any future or historical period.
Kellogg Company's fiscal year ended on December 31, 2011 and Pringles fiscal year ended on June 30, 2011. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet combines the interim unaudited consolidated balance sheets of both Kellogg Company and Pringles as of March 31, 2012. The full-year unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement combines Kellogg Company's year ended December 31, 2011 with the Pringles year ended June 30, 2011. The full-year unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement for Pringles was subsequently adjusted to include Pringles results for the six months ended December 31, 2011 and to exclude the Pringles results for the six months ended December 31, 2010. The interim unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement combines Kellogg Company three months ended March 31, 2012 and Pringles nine months ended March 31, 2012. The nine months ended March 31, 2012 unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement for Pringles was subsequently adjusted to exclude Pringles results for the six months ended December 31, 2011
You should read the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information in conjunction with the following information:
 
 
 
 
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet
As of March 31, 2012
(in millions)
 
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations
For the Year Ended December 31, 2011
(in millions, except per share data)
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations
For the Quarter Ended March 31, 2012
(in millions, except per share data)
 
1. Transaction
The unaudited pro forma combined financial information reflects the Acquisition of Pringles for an estimated purchase price of $2.685 billion which includes reductions for net purchase price adjustments totaling approximately $10 million.
The purchase was funded as follows:
 
* Represents proceeds used for general corporate purposes, which included repayment of intercompany debt. This repayment resulted in cash available to be used for a portion of the Acquisition of Pringles.
** Represents the difference between cash on the Kellogg Company balance sheet at March 31, 2012 and the incremental amount required to fund the Acquisition on May 31, 2012.
The preliminary allocation of the total cost of the Acquisition to Pringles tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on management's preliminary estimate of fair value is summarized as follows:
 
2. Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Information Compared to Historical Financial Information
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet includes adjustments made to historical financial information that were calculated assuming the transaction had been completed as of March 31, 2012. We have based the unaudited pro forma adjustments upon available information and certain assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The adjustments reflect our preliminary estimates of the purchase price allocation, which may change upon finalization of appraisals and other valuation studies that are in process.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement includes adjustments made to historical financial information that were calculated assuming the transaction had been completed as of the beginning of the period presented. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not include the impact of potential cost savings or other operating efficiencies that could result from the Acquisition.
The following items resulted in adjustments reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information:
 
 
The effective interest rate and outstanding balances above factor in the impact of discounts where applicable.
A 0.125% increase in the interest rates on floating rate U.S. and Europe commercial paper outstanding would increase interest expense on a pro forma basis by $0.7 million for year ended December 31, 2011 and $0.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.
 
 
 
 
Property and equipment acquired is expected to be depreciated on a straight-line basis over the following lives:
 
Depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 was increased $2 million in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement to reflect the asset lives and valuation based on preliminary results of the appraisals. For the interim period, the change in depreciation expense was approximately $1 million.
If the estimated useful lives of property and equipment increased or decreased by one year, the resulting pro forma adjustment would be a decrease of $7 million or an increase of $9 million, respectively on an annual basis.
 
 
 
 
The non-current deferred tax liability related to timing differences between tax and book depreciation totaling approximately $29 million was adjusted to zero to reflect the transaction.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


